2019
Sustainability Report
2019 Consolidated Non-Financial StatementTIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
2 
  
[GRI 102 -53] 
Contacts  
Sustainability Reporting Monitoring and Relationship  
TIM S.p.A.  
Via G.  Negri 1  
10123 Milan  
Italy  
 
Tel.: +39 02 8595 6979  
www.telecomitalia.com  
Send your comments to:  
groupsustainability@telecomitalia.it  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
3 
 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer to the 
stakeholders   
Telecommunications  networks  can be considered  the nervous  system  of modern  societies:  a complex  and widespread  
system,  sensitive  to the digital  progress  of an entire  economy.   
Thanks  to this, telecommunications  operators  play an essential  role in the econo mic and social  growth  of countries.  A 
sustainable  economic  and social  system  is built  on sustainable,  inclusive  and environmentally  friendly  digital  networks  
and services.  
As a leading  company  in Italy,  we can make  the difference  by taking  action  on the environment,  social  issues  and 
governance  to reinforce  society,  families  and businesses.   
Acknowledging  this, the following  responsibility  brought  us to develop  our 2020 -2022  Strategic  Plan  focused  on 
sustainable  themes.  The key elements, identified  in line with  the UN's  Sustainable Development Goals, on which our 
three -year strategic plan is based on, are three: the development of sustainable networks, services that improve the 
sustainability of businesses and help citizens’ lives, enhancement and developmen t of our human resources.  
 
We will work  to update  our networks  and provide  more  efficient  data  centers,  leading  not only  to significant  energy  
savings  for the Group  but also for customers  who  use our platforms  and services.   We will increase  the use of cleaner  
energy  sources,  which  will eventually  result  in more  stable  underlying  costs.   In brief,  less and cleaner  energy  – for TIM 
and our customers.  Our goal  is ambitious : achieve  carbon  neutrality  in 2030.  
Innovation and sustainability will be our twin gui des as we select and develop new services. The Internet of Things will 
increasingly change the way companies operate by enabling greater automation of risky processes and achieve more 
efficient use of natural resources such as water, gas and energy.  We wi ll continue to develop transport -related services, 
to give authorities and citizens the information they need to improve mobility. 5G networks will make another major 
contribution to connectivity and value -added services, even thanks to robotics and Big Da ta. Security and customer data 
protection services, together with "cloud" services will reinforce Italian companies.  
To develop  our human  capital,  we will focus  even  more  on training  through  initiatives  for young  people  and talented  staff,  
with  job rotatio n, professional  growth  pathways,  learning  new  skills  and harnessing  the benefits  of diversity.  Our efforts  
will not be just for our people  but for the whole  society:  citizens,  businesses  and Institutions.  This is the idea  behind  
Operazione  Risorgimento  Digitale  – a huge  training  program  open  to all Italians.  Initially  set up as a travelling  digital  school  
that would  visit all 107 Italian  provinces;  after  the Coronavirus  emergency,  it has been  rethought  and enriched  with  a 
series  of initiatives  that allow  everyone  to exploit  the potential  of the digital  world  in response  to the crisis.    
As much  as our Group  will influence  positively  on citizens’  lives,  in the organization  of our cities  and in the relationship  
between  Institutions  and citizens,  TIM's  value  will grow.  
 
Our commitment  to corporate  responsibility  as an integral  part of our strategies  has been  confirmed  for the sixteenth  
year  in a row by our inclusion  in the Dow  Jones  Sustainability  Index  Europe,  along  with  other  big global  indexes  such  as TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
4 
 FTSE4 Good  and Euronext  Vigeo  Eiris.  As further  proof  of TIM Group's  good  work,  for the second  year  in a row it was on 
the Refinitiv  index,  a recognition  that shows  our commitment  on inclusion.  
  
Almost  twenty  years  after  signing  the UN Global  Compact,  we still believe  that to grow  responsibly  it is essential  to align  
our strategies  with  universal  principles  such  as protecting  Human  Rights,  work  enhancement,  protecting  the environment  
and fighting  corruption.   
The role that we have always played in economic and s ocial development – and want to continue to play – cannot ignore 
the difficulties that Italy is facing at the moment. This health crisis involves us all and affects us personally. The curren t 
state of emergency imposes significant changes and radically mod ifies our normal life style.  
It is still too early to accurately assess the economic and social impact of what is happening, but there is no doubt that 
there will be consequences. The only thing we can assure is that we will always be there. We will conti nue to act rapidly 
and proactively, through our infrastructure, our engineers and our services, to stand beside citizens and the entire Country 
against the Coronavirus.  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                     Luigi Gubitosi  
Chief Executive Officer  
 
[GRI 102 -14] 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
5 
 
CONTENTS   
Executive Summary            7 
Note on methodology          10 
        THE TIM GROUP          12 
Organizational model          13 
Main shareholders           14 
Economic value produced and distributed         15 
The Community            17 
Corporate Governance          25 
Sustainability governance system          29 
Fight against corruption           31 
Stakeholder engagement          34 
Materiality matrix           37 
Risk management           40 
 
         ENVIRONMENT          53 
Environmental protection approach        54  
Fight against climate change: Risks and opportunities for TIM     55 
Electromagnetism and compliance with environmental legislation in force   57 
TIM initiatives for the environmen t        58 
Energy efficiency improvement work         58 
Reducing staff travel           59 
IoT and environmental research          60 
Consumer Products: TIM eco -friendly         60 
TIM’s environmental performance         61 
Energy and natural resources consumption         61 
Atmospheric emissions           67 
Waste             70 
Results and Objectives           71 
 
         THE VALUE CHAIN         72 
Research and development          73 
Digital inclusion           81 
TIM people            88 
Concise figures            91 
Gender balance            92 
New skills and development          94 
Remuneration policy           99 
Industrial relations         103 
Health and safety         106 
People Caring          109 
Chapter appendix         115 
Results and Objectives         121 
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
6 
 
  
Customers           122 
Customer satisfaction          122 
Conciliation procedures          126 
Child protection           129 
Product responsibility          132 
Safeguarding privacy and personal data        136 
Smart services           140 
Results and Objectives           143 
         
The supply chain          147 
Sustainability initiatives          148 
Sustainability checks          149 
Supplier involvement initiatives         151 
Supply chain commitments         152 
 
HUMAN RIGHTS                  153 
TIM’s Commitments          154 
(In)Formation and training on human rights      156 
Complaints and incidents         157 
 
 
APPENDIX                    161 
Economic -financial highlights        162 
Initiatives with stakeholders – summary tables      165 
 
GRI Content Index                  175 
 
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS              182 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
7 
 
. Executive Summary 
Due to its size, its extensive and widespread presence and it s infrastructural and technologi cal assets, TIM is a "system 
company"; it is fully integrated with the regions and with th e social, economic and productive fabric of the countries in 
which it operates. The TIM Group's work has therefore cha nged over time, to meet the needs of the communities it 
operates in. The current challenge is to use the Group's infrastr ucture and skills to contribute to a new phase of evolution 
in our society, one that requires us to use technology and work with all the players in the public and private sectors to 
tackle the great environmental and social challenges of th e day, speed up reaching the Su stainable Development Goals 
in the UN's 2030 Agenda, and at the same time, prepare for and respond to the risks that spreading technology brings. 
TIM's contribution to sustainability might therefore be better termed a contribution to digital sustainability, which means 
aligning the ICT sector with the UN's global challenges to s ee how best to seize the opportunities and respond quickly to 
new threats. The Sustainability Report explains in depth the Group' s work on environmental, social and governance topics, 
demonstrating its contribution to reaching the Sustainable Development Goals and the targets it identifies itself as 
priorities.  
FIGHTING CLIMATE CHANGE                             
 
The Group is one of the main players in the digital transformation, the profound change in our society made possible by 
ultrabroadband (UBB) networks (FTTx and 5G ), resulting from the development of technological enablers like artificial 
intelligence, the Internet of Things (IoT) and advanced analyt ics. These technologies are driving a radical transformation 
of our society, making it move on from data services to digital solutions, in the most varied fields (for example security, 
entertainment, on the move: electric cars, at work: Industry 4. 0, smart city: public services, environmental sustainability, 
health: predictive and personalized medicine).  
TIM has always considered innovation to be a strategic asset an d takes great care in governing its individual aspects, from 
its strategic role to responsibility, object ives and policy. With regards to the role  itself, in 2019, both technological and 
business-related innovation once again played a key role in  responding to the changing technological, market and 
competitive environment. Besides continuing with its existing  research and development projects, TIM has launched new 
initiatives, for example for growing co -creation ecosystems such as the IoT Op en Lab, a laboratory dedicated to the 
development of IoT solutions, based on technologies that ar e of key importance from an open innovation perspective. 
In accordance with the Italian Digital Agenda and the relevant EU directives, in 2019, TIM consolidated and rationalized 
its Smart Services offering (with regard to safety, energy e fficiency, the environment and digital services within cities) 
with a view to promoting the "smart city" model. This model translates into improved quality of life, delivered by means 
of innovative digital services that can facilitate new fo rms of collaboration between citizens, businesses and public 
administration bodies, whilst contributing to energy savings. TIM has, for example, formed collaborations with some municipal governments to run environmental  sustainability projects over several years: REPLICATE (Firenze Smart City), 
MONICA and SMILE (Torino Smart City).  Besides providing smart services, TIM offers people and busi nesses eco-friendly products for reducing their environmental 
impact and optimizing the consumption needed to their prov ide services. It applies design rules that reduce 
environmental impact ("design for enviro nment"), in particular at the production stage e and managing the end-of-life 
of the equipment to reduce electronic or e-waste.  Even internally, the Group is committed to doing its part. In 20 19 alone, its renewable energy use went up by 244%, and 
it worked to get better energy efficiency saving 123 GWh over three years. All suppliers are analyses to assess their social 
and environmental risks. 
TIM's contribution is focused on the targets in Goal 7: Affo rdable and clean energy (targets 7.2, 7.3 and 7.b), Goal 9: 
Industry, innovation and infrastructure (target 9.4), Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities (targets 11.5 and 11.6), 
Goal 12: Responsible consumption and prod uction (target 12.2: use of natural reso urces, target 12.5: waste reduction and 
targets 12.6, 12.8 and 12.a: strengthen capacity) and Goal  13: Climate action (targets 13.1, 13.3 and 13.b). 
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
8 
  
 
CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY               
 
The TIM Group's strategy concentrates on spreading an inclusive digital culture that enables innovation and economic 
development in communities. In particular, it allows Italy to get over the geographical digital divide, thanks to the 
broadband coverage it gives to 80% of homes on fixed networks and more than 99% of homes with 4G mobile networks, 
even in rural areas. In Brazil, the development of fixed and mobile networks on the one hand and 5G on the other have 
led to an unprecedented acceleration in the te lecommunications sector. This is a phenomenon that is opening up new 
possibilities and profoundly changing people's habits, as they become increasingly accustomed to living in a connected 
world.  
But besides the geographical digital divide, there is also a  social one. The TIM Group helps spread knowledge of the 
internet and digital technologies to people in society who they tend to be off limits to, thereby helping reduce inequality. 
It does so through joint initiatives with public administration, universit ies and other players in the public and private 
sectors. In 2019, the Operation Risorgimento Digitale was launched to carry training courses to all 107 provinces in Italy 
(for a total of 20,000 hours of training). Fondazione TIM in Italy and Instituto TIM in Brazil have carried out many cultural 
projects and initiatives, which help spread a culture of innovation among more vulnerable people and update them on 
technology.  
Besides providing enormous opportunities, the digital transformation is also posing risks to human rights. The TIM Group 
is on the front line of containing these risks. Among the main contributions are the initiatives to protect the health, priva cy 
and safety of personal data, and on the key topics of cyber security and protecting the mos t vulnerable categories of data 
(safe use of the internet and fighting cyber bullying and child pornography).  
The main focus of the Group,  therefore, is helping reaching the targets in Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth 
(targets 8.2, 8.3 and 8.4: sust ainable growth and targets 8.1 and 8.10: inclusion), Goal 9: Industry, innovation and 
infrastructure (targets 9.1, 9.a and 9.c: infrastructure and targets 9.2 and 9.3: sustainable and inclusive industrialization ), 
Goal 10: Reduced inequalities (targets 10. 1 and 10.2) and Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions (targets 16.9 and 
16.10: protecting human rights), conserving TIM's strong historic link with formal and non -formal training for all 
generations, helping reach Goal 4: Quality education (targe ts 4.1 and 4.3: formal education, targets 4.4, 4.6 and 4.7: 
developing skills and 4.b: adequate funding).  
 
 
 
CLOSENESS TO OUR PEOPLE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
 
TIM shows the care it has for the people who work for it by listening to their needs (e.g. the BU Domestic engagement 
survey) and coming up with a plan based on everyone's expectations, as long as they are concrete and measurable. There 
are many initiative s providing continuous training for people, the only way for TIM to support itself in the digital economy. 
In 2020, the TIM Academy platform will be enriched with a training plan on sustainability topics. This aims to guarantee 
ever greater involvement of people in the Group's social and environmental goals.  
TIM supports employee participation in volunteer initiatives, and is particularly attentive to the issue of diversity within 
the company. In 2019, TIM was once again in the Top 100 of the Refinitiv Dive rsity and Inclusion Index, the most respected 
world ranking for the criterion, at 6th, making it the highest Italian company and highest telecoms company in the world. 
TIM’s place in the Refinitiv Diversity and Inclusion Index confirms the Group’s commitme nt to equal opportunities, non -
discrimination and inclusion as the basis of its company strategy to improve internal expertise, organizational well -being 
and therefore company performance. Mel 2019 TIM was also in the Top 20 of the Diversity Brand Index wh ich lists the 
brands seen as the most inclusive.  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
9 
 Targeted initiatives are in place for the attraction and retention of talent; these include direct links with universities an d 
the world of higher education. In addition, as part of the application of the G roup's expansion contract (in force from 
August 2019 until December 2020), TIM is focusing on reconciling its organizational efficiency requirements with those 
related to development. The expansive nature of this measure combines increased employment (600 new hires) with 
internal training: a modern, innovative tool that can support TIM on the journey towards a digital economy.  
Within the realm of Corporate Governance, taking into account the recent Law no. 160 of December 27, 2019, which 
changed the rules o n the “pink quota”, increasing the required share of women in administration and auditing bodies of 
listed companies from at least a third to at least two fifths of the total and applying this requirement for six consecutive 
terms, TIM will change its Arti cles of Association. The new division requirement will not make it necessary to change the 
current composition of the corporate bodies, as they already reflect the new shareholding (6/15 on the Board of Directors 
and 2/5 on the Board of Statutory Auditors,  respectively). The change to the Articles of Association also involves applying 
the criteria continuously, not just for the six terms set out in the new legislation.  
Confirming the ongoing Group commitment to fight any form of corruption, in 2019 the Pare nt, TIM S.p.A. adopted the 
Anti-bribery Management System (also ‘SGA’) for which it attained UNI ISO 37001 “Anti -bribery Management Systems” 
certification.  
TIM has therefore also identified among its priority goals the targets in Goal 5: Gender equality ( targets 5.4, 5.5, 5.6 and 
5.b) and Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions in relation to corporate governance and management of human 
resources (targets 16.1, 16.3, 16.5 and 16.a).  
 
 
 
 
 
Main results from 2019  
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
10 
 NOTE ON METHODOLOGY  
Scope and criteria  
[GRI 102 -45] The Consolidated Disclosure of Non-Financial Statement (hereinafter “Statement” or “Sustainability 
Report”) complies with the obligations laid down in Italian Legislative Decree 254/2016 on the disclosure of non -financial 
information. This Statement – which is its Sustainability Report and is distinct from the Group Report on Operations – is 
the result of the commitment to inform its stakeholders of its performance and results in the field of sustainability, as in 
previous years. Pursuant to Legislative Decree 254/2016, the Statement des cribes the management approach, policies 
and risks generated and/or run in relation to the five areas set out in that decree (environmental, social, staff, human 
rights and fighting active and passive corruption).  
 
[GRI 102 -46] The Statement contains data  and information referring to the Company TIM S.p.A. and its fully consolidated 
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 (hereinafter “the TIM Group” or “the Group”), as presented in the Annual Financial 
Report. The environmental performance data are presented  with some limitations  – consisting of European and American 
entities subsidiaries of Telecom Italia Sparkle S.p.A  – with respect to the Group's perimeter and the entities with fewer 
than 30 employees. These limitations are not important to understand the Company’s activities, performance, results or 
the impact produced by the Group.  
[GRI 102 -47] The Report is based on a multi -stakeholder approach involving the joint analysis of actions taken in respect 
of the main stakeholders with whom the Company interac ts. For details of the material topics see the relevant paragraph.  
[GRI 102 -50] [GRI 102 -51] [GRI 102 -52] The 2019 Sustainability Report, prepared annually over the calendar year, 
respects the same deadlines as the Group Annual Financial Report.  
[GRI 102 -10] [GRI 102 -48] During 2019 no significant changes in the scope of consolidation were recorded (it should be 
noted that in December 2019 the sale of the holding in Persidera S.p.A. was finalized, while in October 2019 the merger 
by incorporation of Noverc a s.r.l. with TIM S.p.A. took place) .Data relating to previous years is provided for comparative 
purposes only, in order to allow an assessment of the dynamic trend of the Group’s activities over the medium term.  
Note that information relating to “Fondazi one TIM” and “Instituto TIM”, entities not included within the Group’s 
consolidation scope, represents a qualitative element which is useful in order to understand the attention paid to the 
social context.  
[GRI 102 -54] The Sustainability Report has been pr epared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (In accordance -comprehensive option).  In addition, the document takes into 
consideration the process recommended by the AA1000APS principles (inclusiv ity, materiality and correspondence). 
Reference to the GRI disclosures are reported in the text highlighted with the symbol [GRI N.] . 
The Sustainability Report is drawn up according to a system of indicators (KPI - Key Performance Indicators) which 
measure  the company’s performance and the degree of achievement of objectives previously established for areas in 
which the Company has major impact.  
The KPIs are defined on the basis of:  
• the analysis of the GRI, an international organization which  develops universally applicable guidelines for the drafting 
of sustainability reports;  
• the demands received from stakeholders;  
• the questionnaires sent out by the leading rating agencies for the purpose of admission to the stock market 
sustainability indexes;  
• the experience the Company has gained in the sustainability field over more than 20 years.  
The KPIs - mainly those relating to environmental data - are managed on a dedicated application system (BPC) that uses 
the same platform used for financial  reporting and control.  
 
In terms of internal auditing of the contents presented, the Company has set up a system with:  
→→ dedicated Operating Rules, which define the roles, responsibilities and procedures to be followed by Group companies 
in order to ens ure adequate management and reporting of non -financial information;  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
11 
 →→ an internal control system, active on some of the data categories such as the environmental one, to ensure the correct 
tracking and reporting of non -financial information;  
→→ the signin g of a letter of attestation by senior management concerning the data constituting the paragraphs of the 
Financial Statements for which they are responsible.  
[GRI 102 -56] In terms of external control, the Non -Financial Statement and related data are subjec t to limited assurance 
engagement by EY S.p.A., the Group's independent auditors, whose Report is available at the end of this Report.  
 
The present document was approved by the Board of Directors of TIM S.p.A. on March 10, 2020.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
12 
 THE TIM GROUP  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
13 
 Organizational model  
[GRI 102 -1] [GRI 102 -2] The TIM Group offers fixed and mobile communication services and ICT solutions, as well as digital 
content. In Italy, the Group operates the biggest fixed voice and data infrastructure, covering the whole count ry, and 
provides one of the country’s most extensive and advanced mobile network platforms.  
[GRI 102 -5] The Parent Company is TIM, joint -stock company organized under the laws of the Republic of Italy1 [GRI 102 -
3] where the parent company has its registere d office.  
[GRI 102 -10] [GRI 102 -48] No significant changes were recorded in the consolidation area in the financial year 2019. The 
sale of the investment in Persidera S.p.A. was completed in December 2019, while Noverca s.r.l. was merged into TIM 
S.p.A. in October 2019 . 
[GRI 102 -4] [GRI 102 -6] [GRI 102 -7] The Group’s activities are encompassed in the following Business Units (or operating 
segments)2: 
• the “Domestic” Business Unit operates primarily in the field of domestic fixed and mobile voice and data s ervices for 
end customers (retail) and other operators (wholesale), as well as in the information technology products and services 
sector through Olivetti. The Business Unit also includes the activities of INWIT S.p.A. and on an international scale, 
the ac tivities related to the development of fiber optic networks (Sparkle) across Europe, Africa, the Americas and 
Asia;  
• the “Brazil” Business Unit (TIM Brasil Group) provides mobile and fixed telecommunications and transmission services 
in Brazil;  
• "Other acti vities" include financial companies ( Telecom Italia Capital S.A. , Telecom Italia Finance S.A. ), not strictly 
related to the Group's core business.  
 
[GRI 102 -2] The Group’s main brands are:  
• TIM is the brand which operates in the domestic market offering fixed and mobile telephony, internet, digital content 
and cloud services. The TIM brand is also present in Brazil, where it markets mobile phone, mobile Internet and fixed 
line services.  
• Kean Mob ile is the second brand for the domestic retail segment. Established in 2017, it is intended for private 
customers only, and offers no frills mobile services3.  
• Sparkle  offers international voice, data and Internet solutions to fixed and mobile telecommuni cations operators, 
Sips/Asps, content and media players and multinational companies.  
• INWIT  is the Group’s tower company operating in Italy in the electronic communications infrastructure sector, 
specifically that dedicated to the housing of radio transmiss ion equipment, telecommunications and broadcasting of 
television and radio signals.  
• Olivetti  markets information technology products and services for residential and business customers.  
 
The Group is particularly attentive to the needs of the communities i n which it operates and implements wide -ranging 
initiatives and projects aimed at the social and economic development of the areas in which it has a presence. This was 
the intention behind the establishment of Fondazione TIM in 2008, which was followed by Instituto TIM in Brazil in 2013.  
The telecommunications industry is undergoing a profound transformation due to the evolution of UBB networks (FTTx, 
5G), associated with the development of other technological enablers such as Artificial Intelligence, Cyber Security and 
Advanced Analytic s, which sets the scene for a new paradigm shift, or the transition from data services to digital solutions, 
in the widest range of areas:  
• in the home: security and entertainment  
• on the move: the connected car  
• at work: Industry 4.0  
• smart city: citizens ser vices and sustainability  
                                                                 
1 [GRI 102 -5] Also see the TIM Group Consolidated Financial Statements.  
2 [GRI 102 -45] For more information on the structure of the Group and details of the countries where TIM operates, see the “The companies of  the 
TIM Group” note in the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which also lists the Group companies and subdivides them by  consolidation 
method.  
3 Offers only basic services.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
14 
 • health: predictive and personalized medicine  
  
TIM is operating in a “gigabit society”, characterized by increasingly numerous and complex services that represent an 
opportunity for growth for the TLC industry, which already contri butes over 90 billion euros (or 5%) to Italy's GDP, 
1including through direct and indirect effects and productivity.  
The GSMA 2019 report "The Mobile Economy" confirms that the expected contribution to European GDP from the use of 
5G technologies in the ec onomy is estimated at 4.6%, rising over the next five years to 4.8%.  
The Company will continue to focus on digital innovation as a key way to promote a greater diffusion of demand for 
innovative services and for the continuous improvement of its network, w hich with over 17 million km of fiber laid is the 
most advanced and dynamic telecommunications infrastructure in the country. It provides ultrabroadband coverage to 
80% of homes on fixed networks and over 99% of the population on 4G mobile networks.  
In add ition, TIM is leading the 5G technological innovation and, in this role, the Company was awarded the best 
frequencies put out to tender by Ministry for Economic Development (MiSE).  
By 2021, 120 cities, 200 tourist destinations, 245 industrial districts an d 200 specific projects for large enterprises will be 
covered. Many municipalities will be able to make use of 5G, including superfast connections through FWA (fixed wireless 
access2). 
At the same time, the Group is committed to promoting the widest possible distribution of digital technologies and skills 
with full integration across the country and in its social and economic -productive fabric. Digital solutions for public 
administration services, cloud services for business, digital platforms for sch ools and hospitals, applications for people 
with disabilities are just a few examples.  
In this context, TIM's “Operation Digital Risorgimento”, a large digital education project for Italy, was launched. The Proje ct 
involves more than 400 trainers who will develop a program lasting 20,000 hours in all 107 Italian provinces. It will be 
aimed at a wide audience of people3 with the aim of boosting the process of digitizing the country, encouraging the 
adoption of new technologies by an increasingly large pool o f citizens. The initiative has obtained the support of the 
European Commission Representation in Italy and adheres to the Digital Republic Manifesto promoted by the Special 
Government Commissioner for the implementation of the Digital Agenda. More details are available in the Chapter "The 
Value Chain -Digital Inclusion".  
 
Although the primary purpose of TIM’s business model is to create long -term value, for the Company and its stakeholders, 
the Group has for some time set itself the essential objective of p ursuing this aim while ensuring a balance between 
economic, social and environmental sustainability.  
 
 
Main Shareholders of TELECOM ITALIA S.P.A.  
[GRI 102 -5] As at December 31, 2019, the reference shareholder is the French Vivendi S.A., with 23.9% of the ordinary 
share capital. [GRI 102 -10] In 2018, Paul Elliott Singer (General Partner of Elliott Capital Advisors LP) acquired an indirect 
stake in TIM, held thro ugh the subsidiary companies Elliott International LP, Elliott Associates LP and The Liverpool Limited 
Partnership, equal to 9.6% of ordinary share capital as of December 31, 2019.  
In April 2018 Cassa Depositi e Prestiti entered the shareholding structure of TIM and, at the shareholders’ meeting of 
March 29, 2019, it participated with shares equal to 9.9% of the ordinary share capital.  
The structure of the Net Equity and the number of shares in circulation are shown in the Group’s Consolidated Financial 
Statements. For further information relating to reports made to Consob regarding significant shareholdings, see the 
Report on Operations of the TIM Group.  
During the three -year period 2017 -2019, "The share of participation in TIM ordinary capital by Vivendi S.A. is unchanged  
foreign institutional shareholders, including the amounts referable to Paul Elliott Singer, decreased ( -3.51 pp), as well as 
Italian institutional shareholders ( -2.2 pp) and other shareholders ( -4.3 pp). The shares held by the Group remained 
unchanged.  
                                                                 
1 ASSTEL memorandum (Hearing at the IX Commission for Transport, Posts and Telecommunications of the CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES - April 
2019) 
2 Technology that uses a hybrid system of cable and wireless connect ions to offer broadband and ultrabroadband connectivity services. 
3About 1 million people.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
15 
  
 
 
Composition, as a percentage, of the share ownership as at December 31, 2019  
 
 
 
 
 
Economic value produced and distributed  
The Group aims to achieve a balance between the three dimensions:  
• environmental sustainability: maintaining the function of ecological systems, ensuring a balance between the use of 
natural resources and the company’s activities;  
• social sustainability: promoting the principle of fairness between generat ions and within the same generation;  
• economic sustainability: maintaining and increasing capital.  
[GRI 102 -7] TIM reports on what it does to achieve this objective in the Sustainability Report, which focuses primarily on 
environmental and social sustainability, as well as aspects that are both of a social and economic nature (e.g. customer 
care and innovation man agement) and the Annual Financial Report, which discusses the Group’s economic performance 
in detail. In order to give a comprehensive view of the Group’s sustainability, we have provided some summary data of 
economic performance in the Appendixes, which a re drawn from the Annual Report. The distribution of revenue by 
product and service and the trend in the Group’s capitalization and debt is shown in the “Revenues” note of the TIM 
Group’s consolidated financial statements and the Report on Operations of th e TIM Group.  
[GRI 201 -1] The economic value produced and distributed to the stakeholders is shown below. Since 2008, the 
presentation method recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative has been adopted, with appropriate adaptations.  
 
 
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
16 
 [GRI 201 -1] TIM Gr oup - Economic value produced and distributed (millions of euros).  
 
 
[GRI 102 -7] The following table shows one of the main classes of management data of the Group, the trend of access 
lines to fixed and mobile telephony services.  
 
TIM Group – Number of lines at year end  
(thousands)  12/31/2019  12/31/2018  12/31/2017  
DOMESTIC FIXED     
Physical 
connections  17,136  18,212  18,995  
BroadBand 
connections *  7,592  7,483  7,510  
DOMESTIC MOBILE     
Number of lines  30,895  31,818  30,755  
BRAZIL     
Number of lines  54,447  55,923  58,634  
 
*From 2019 the total figure for BroadBand connections at period end is no longer available, only the figure for active 
BroadBand TIM Retail. The table shows the outstanding amounts for the previous years, coherently with the new 
criterion.  
.  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
17 
 The Community  
With its networks, products and technological solutions, TIM is one of the main protagonists of the evolution towards a 
digital economy and, given its size, reach, infrastructure and technological assets, is fully integrated with the area of 
operation and the social, economic and production context.  
TIM is aware of this strategic role and therefore works constantly to manage and innovate its infrastructure and 
technologies, which it places at the service of the country and to which end it makes significant  investments.  
 
The Group companies intend to contribute to the economic well -being and growth of communities in which they 
operate by delivering increasingly digitalized services. Consistently with this objective and with its responsibilities 
towards the v arious stakeholders, including the competitors listed in the sustainability section of 
www.telecomitalia.com , the Group considers research and innovation to be essential conditions for growth and success.  
 
As p rivate entities requiring cost -effective management, Group companies take the social impact of telecommunications 
services into account in their decision -making activities, responding to the needs of society, including its weakest 
members.  
 
 
Security and management of emergencies  
With the aim of ensuring maximum cooperation, in terms of security and management of emergencies and crises, 
national and local institutions and affected communities, TIM has signed and implemented the following conventions:  
• A “m emorandum of understanding between the Department of Civil Protection of the Presidency of the Council of 
Ministers and the providers of electronic communication services to allow emergency information to be sent across 
national geographical areas.”  
• An “agreement between the Crisis Unit at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and providers 
of electronic communication services for the supply of messaging services for Italian citizens abroad in emergencies.”  
• The “Convention for  implementing a device to generate Missing Child Alert” launched with the Italian Ministry of the 
Interior, Department of Public Security;  
• A “contract for the supply of information on the location of SIM cards used in TIM phones” with the national mountai n 
and cave rescue corps to locate people lost in the mountains.  
 
In 2019, TIM was called by the Civil Protection Department and MiSE to collaborate in the design, testing and 
implementation of the IT -Alert system, a new technological platform at the service of alerting, with a cell broadcast 
message, all people living in an area affected by a specific natural risk.  
 
Furthermore, as required by the relevant laws on training, we:  
• test the soundness of the emergency planning and the ability of the compan y’s operational Crisis Management 
Systems to respond;  
• maintain staff, structures and tools of the emergency management system in a state of readiness;  
• Identify, where necessary, actions to improve internal company processes and the processes used to interf ace with 
the relevant stakeholders (institutions, communities and customers).  
 
TIM participated in the following exercises in 2019:  
• "Ankon 2019", on NBCR risks, organized by the Ministry of the Interior together with the Prefecture of Ancona;  
• "Exe Flegrei 2019", organized by the Civil Protection Department, to update planning for volcanic risks in the 
Phlegraean Fields.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
18 
  
 
TIM’s involvement in these drills is necessary as the company delivers essential services and is part of the National Civil 
Protection Sy stem (Law 225/1992), together with other public and private organizations and the Ministry of the Interior’s 
Interministerial Technical Commission for Civil Defence.  
 
In addition, in relation to training, TIM has circulated, inside and outside the Group, t he contents of the “Io Non Rischio” 
(“I don’t take risks”) campaign, organized annually by the Civil Protection Department to strengthen the culture of risk 
prevention and raise awareness about safe behavior throughout Italy. This year the campaign came un der the banner of 
the “Settimana Nazionale della Protezione Civile” (“National Civil Protection Week”). The TIM Academy has also designed 
and delivered an online course on crisis management, for all heads of the relevant functions, the 20 operational crisi s 
teams for defence and civil protection, and all contacts at local institutions.  
 
Finally, TIM has made sure it is represented in national and local institutional crisis units – in times of both crisis and calm 
– and that service requests are satisfied an d dealt with within 12 hours and 24 hours as set out in Prime Ministerial 
Directive 3.12.2008 on “operating directions for managing emergencies”.  
 
 
 
Relations with local communities  
In addition to the usual relations with national institutions, as described in the sustainability section of the 
www.telecomitalia.com  website, TIM works every day to ensure that relations with regional and lo cal bodies are lasting 
and satisfactory, in the belief that this is the only way to create the conditions for developing its area of operation and 
improve people’s quality of life, while allowing the institutions and TIM to achieve their respective objecti ves. 
TIM has a central function entirely dedicated to the management of relations with local authorities, which has also set 
up permanently in the area for ease of communication and to build relationships with government bodies. The function 
also relies on  local authority accounts in the region, specialists in managing relations with governmental institutions on 
technical matters concerning the development of fixed and mobile networks.  
 
The Relations with Local Authorities department, as part of its duties : 
• carries out all possible actions of an institutional nature aimed at facilitating the development of the fixed and mobile 
telecommunications network;  
• identifies the intervention priorities of the other company departments through the Field Integration Co mmittee 1;  
• establishes the priorities and determines how to interact with public bodies in light of the requirements identified;  
• constantly monitors existing institutional relations and systematically develops the network of relationships;  
• contributes to drawing up agreements with regions and municipalities;  
• listens systematically to all requests and reports from local institutions and directs them correctly to the relevant 
departments within TIM;  
• supports other departments of TIM in the implementation of territorial projects;  
• prevents disputes arising, above all in reference to network development issues  
• actively participates in the intra -operative working tables within the trade associations within Confindustria.  
 
 
                                                                 
1 Internal local committees involving the managers of departments with local branches . TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
19 
  
Particular attention is paid to organi zations that deal with issues relating to:  
• the development of fixed and mobile ultrabroadband networks;  
• digitalization of public utility services;  
• use of public funds;  
• the spread of digital culture.  
 
With full respect for the principles of transparency and accountability, TIM responds flexibly to requests, regardless of 
how they are received from local institutions.  
Joint projects between TIM and local authorities are managed in a way that defines the  roles and duties of each party, 
formal control mechanisms and measurement tools. TIM promotes the formation of joint control committees, i.e. 
committees formed of representatives of all the parties involved.  
The composition and objectives of the committe es are determined according to the specific requirements of the project 
and provide for the presence of stakeholders without any kind of discrimination, including gender discrimination. 
Monitoring and constant interaction with the decision -making centers o f local institutions take place by means of 
meetings, hearings, the presentation of position documents and involvement in workshops as well as in the work of 
regional commissions and specialist working groups. TIM frequently organizes communication initiat ives on specific issues 
of local interest.  
 
[GRI 413 -1] Among the main subjects of dialog with local authorities during 2019 we would highlight the following:  
• development of the new ultrabroadband networks (NGAN 1), implementation of the LTE standard and la unch of the 
new 5G technology;  
• actions of an institutional nature involving local administrations aimed at encouraging development of the fixed and 
mobile telecommunications network;  
• drawing up protocols with local authorities in order to develop new fixed  and mobile generation access networks;  
• draft regional laws and municipal regulations regarding the installation of mobile telephony systems and 
electromagnetic fields, in order to represent the company’s requirements (also with the presentation of observa tions, 
amendments and participation in hearings) with a view to the simplification and standardizing of the relevant national 
provisions;  
• proposed excavation rules, in order to ensure the consistency of the authorization process and the respective 
regulat ions with national regulations, particularly in order to ensure simplification at local level  
• removing public telephone installations (telephone booths), for which provisions have also been made for a public 
hearing as part of the procedure agreed with AGC OM;  
• promotion of digital transformation initiatives to spread knowledge and new technologies, including through 
partnerships with municipal government;  
• promotion of a digital culture, including through agreements, protocols and partnerships with local aut horities; 
significant participation in the launch of the TIM "Risorgimento Digitale" project, started to support the country's 
digitization process and accelerate the spread of digital skills among Italian citizens;  
• promotion of innovation, including throu gh agreements, protocols, partnerships with local authorities to promote the 
creation of smart cities and experimenting and launching the 5G service offer;  
• drawing up 20 regional policy reports to take stock of the development of regional policies regardi ng digital services 
and network infrastructure in light of the new EU funds programming policy for 2014 -2020  
• the central and local management, coordination and monitoring of complaints received by local authorities.  
 
                                                                 
1 Next -Generation Access Network  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
20 
 [GRI 413 -2] The potential negative impacts arising exclusively from excavations for installing cable ducts or positioning 
radio base stations are mitigated through the use of low environmental impact technologies, such as mini trenches, and 
thanks to prior agreements  with local communities, e.g. regarding aerial installation sites.  
How the contribution to society is measured  
The contribution made to the community by the Group, calculated according to the London Benchmarking Group (LBG)1 
guidelines, amounted to 17.15 million euros in 2019. 2018 and 2017 data is available on the Group website, sustainability 
channel.  
 
Fundraising  
In a national and international context in which crisis and conflict scenarios are multiplying, against an ever -increasing 
number of people in need and emergency situations, private fundraising is a key factor in “person -to-person” cohesion 
and support.  
For over 16 years, TIM has been a key player in the solidarity chain, supporting humanitarian, scientific and  environmental 
projects by allowing people to make a donation of one or two euros with a text message, or two and a half or ten euros 
with a call to a dedicated free number from a landline. Alongside these traditional donation methods, in 2019 we 
launched,  before anyone else in Europe, the integrated “DonaconTIM” system2, which lets us receive donations through 
an app and web platform.  
The new Self -Regulatory Code issued by AGCOM establishes 60 numbers, divided into 30 permanent numbers (lasting 
one year) and 30 temporary numbers (lasting 20 days), with a special price list. The two emergency numbers continue to 
be free. The amounts collected are returned in full, with no withholdings applied by either the tax authority or TIM for the 
costs incurred.  
In 201 9 there were 139 charity campaigns and one emergency one, for the disastrous flooding in Venice in November, 
which received more than 11 million euros. The largest amounts of money are raised for medical and scientific initiatives, 
with social welfare init iatives at national level, such as violence against women, close behind.  
 
                                                                 
1 More than 150 major international companies subscribe to the LBG, which was founded in 1994 and is the global gold standard f or the 
classification of voluntary contributions made by companies in favor of the community. In accordance with the LBG model, in order to measure 
and represent the Group’s commitment to the community, the contributions disbursed have been subdivided into three categories  (charity, 
investments in the community, initiatives in the community), adopting the customary pyramid -shaped repr esentation. For further information, 
see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website, which contains further details about data for the last three  years. The LBG 
guidelines are considered a reference for the preparation of the statement for  determining economic value generated and distributed. The graphic 
provides more information than required by Legislative Decree 254/2016.  
2 Further information on DonaconTIM is available in the next section of this chapter, “Digital culture projects” . 
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
21 
 Digital Culture Projects  
In a coordinated and complementary manner with respect to the Country’s technological infrastructure path, the TIM 
Group aims to improve the digital litera cy of the population and enhance excellence in the country using the potential of 
the internet.   
 
Digital skills  have been one of the key factors in economies achieving a competitive advantage over the past 20 years, as 
shown by much of the work carried o ut by the OECD and the European Commission. On this front, the Digital Agenda 
asks EU countries to take action to broaden knowledge of digital tools and increase the number of people with evolved 
digital skills, particularly by teaching ICT in schools. Wit h this in mind, schools must make a radical change in the way 
they plan and provide education, and in the way pupils, teachers and parents interact. Because of the importance of this 
subject, the European Commission constantly monitors the speed with which  digital technologies are being introduced 
in schools and in teaching.  
 
Since 2016, TIM has promoted the TIM ScuolaDigitale . During the 2016 –2017 and 2017 –2018 school years, the project 
aimed to bring school teachers of all levels and qualifications more into contact with digital tools, to give them an 
overview of technologies that add value and provide new opportunities for t eaching. Over two years, more than 200 
meetings were held throughout Italy, involving over 4,500 teachers. For the 2018 –2019 school year, the project aims to 
make children in their first year of high school more familiar with the key concepts of new techno logies, the Internet of 
Things and robotics, stimulating students’ creativity and passion and transforming them from passive to aware and active 
users of technology. Three thousand children got involved in the classes over the school year, and the web plat form 
scuoladigitale.tim.it had 54,000 unique visitors, more than 92,000 visits to its pages and about 10,000 views of its video 
lessons. For the school year 2019 –2020, the new edition of ScuolaDigitaleTIM will provide a training course on digital 
technolog y and in particular on coding, in schools throughout Italy and especially regions with fewer STEM students.1 The 
students will be involved in practical workshops where they can try computing and creative learning for the first time, 
taking on real challeng es and learning by gaming, on environmental sustainability, sensible internet use and the potential 
of new 5G networks. As in previous editions, the training course will be available on -site, with meetings planned in schools 
and online through the platform  scuoladigitale.tim.it. Also, to further stimulate pupils and improve their experience and 
memories, the initiative involves an open contest for children who have been taking part both in class and online.  
 
DonaconTIM is TIM's new charity ecosystem, linked  to the old method of phone donations, to better support non -profit 
organizations' humanitarian, scientific and environmental projects, as well as emergencies in Italy and abroad. 
DonaconTIM is made up a of a web portal, donacontim.gruppotim.it, and an app  which gives the choice to donate to 
different fundraising campaigns easily and safely. In 2019 DonaconTIM gathered more than 410,000 euros from just under 
300 donors.  
 
In 2019 TIM also made some of its assets (technology, project management and human res ources) available to the Radio 
Dynamo project of the Dynamo Camp , which hosts 200 families and 1,300 children aged six to 17 and suffering from 
serious illnesses, free of charge every year. The web -based radio station (radiodynamo.it) is one of the most po pular 
activities at the camp, and also one of the major activities of its outreach program outside the camp, which allows it to 
reach out to many young people all year round who, for whatever reason, cannot come to the camp.  
 
The Group looks favorably upo n and, where appropriate, supports social, cultural and educational initiatives aimed at the 
enhancement of the individual and the improvement of their living conditions. Hence Fondazione TIM's  (FTIM) mission to 
promote a culture of digital change and inno vation, for integration, communication, economic and social growth.  
The investment strategy implemented by TIM Participações aims to promote the social inclusion of disadvantaged groups 
in Brazilian society, particularly children and teenagers, through educational projects that reinforce the concept of 
“enterprise without boundaries” including in the social sphere. It was in this spirit that Instituto TIM  was founded in 2013.  
  
                                                                 
1 STEM: science, technology, engineering and mathematics (also known as SMET) university courses.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
22 
 The commitment of Fondazione TIM  
The TIM Group companies are particularly attentive to the needs of the communities in which they operate and 
implement wide -ranging initiatives and projects dedicated to their social and economic development. Fondazione TIM's 
(FTIM) mission is to promote a culture of digital change and innovation, and thus integration, communication, economic 
and social growth. F TIM can operate, in Italy and abroad, by the methods and with the tools that are considered 
appropriate in each case for it to achieve its statutory purposes.  
In accordance with this mission, four areas of intervention have been identified.  
• Education : inno vation in teaching and education, promoting initiatives aimed at updating the technology in Italian 
schools and introducing radical innovations in educational methods and tools.  
• Innovation Culture : a program of unconventional activities in the world of fou ndations for the purpose of promoting 
a culture of innovation and becoming a point of reference for this.  
• Social Empowerment : non -profit -making organization are businesses. FTIM promotes both the better use of new 
technologies and improved management and e fficiency to help the organizations “do good well”.  
• Historic and Artistic Heritage : Italian artistic heritage represents excellence in the “technology of the past”. FTIM 
wants to contribute to its enhancement and public use through present -day technology.  
The Fondazione TIM’s projects take place according to the following criteria.  
TOOLS  STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES  PROJECT SELECTION AND 
MONITORING  
FTIM pursues its objectives by 
assigning contributions to 
projects put forward by third -
party individuals and non-
profit institutions,  according to 
requirements established by 
the Board of Directors. Since 
2015 FTIM has also run several 
such projects itself.  FTIM works to spread the culture of 
innovation, to foster solidarity and civil, 
cultural and economic devel opment, 
and is committed to working for an 
increasingly digital, advanced and 
competitive Italy, to improve people's 
living conditions. This translates to 
innovative projects for the promotion 
and diffusion of science and technology, 
as well as the develop ment of models, 
technological tools and systems to 
support non -profit associations.  The selection  is made based on the 
social impact of projects, which must 
be measurable, sustainable and 
replicable.  
The monitoring system  is 
established according to the specific 
characteristics and objectives of 
each project. Monitoring is a 
requirement for all projects, whether 
selected by tender or directly. As 
well as being an eligibility 
requirement, it also provides an 
assessment para meter.  
 
In 2019, FTIM concentrated its resources on a number of important projects which allowed it to focus increasingly on 
technological innovation to improve the solutions identified and broaden the range of beneficiaries. Thanks in part to the 
push fo r open -source solutions, this will improve our impact on our national community exponentially.  
 
In the realm of education , FTIM , CNR -ITD1 and ANP2 have launched the platform TRIS.2, the first I -MOOC3 for training 
teachers at all Italian schools on how to manage an inclusive, hybrid class, that is to say one in which some pupils may 
have to be linked digitally from home. At the same time a Framework Agreement was signed with the MIUR to promote 
participation in the course and monitor the results of its impl ementation.  
 
Remaining in the field of Education, the collaboration between FTIM and Accademia della Scala  continued. It is intended 
to enhance and promote the work of one of Italy’s centers of excellence, and to innovate in the field of training, in orde r 
to hand down valuable traditional trades, encourage young talent and get youngsters into the world of work; More 
information is available on the FTIM site (www.fondazionetim.it).  
 
                                                                 
1 CNR -ITD Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche - Istituto delle Tecnologie Didattiche.  
2 NAP: Associazione Nazionale Dirigenti Pubblici e Alte Professionalità del la Scuola.  
3  MOOC: Massive Open Online Courses.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
23 
 FTIM has also collaborated with the University of Camerino, on the project  "Python@Camerino ", to respond to the 
earthquakes in Central Italy in 2016. The project involves setting up a permanent educational workshop with tools for 
training and the university's research on IT.  
 
The project Net4Neet , in collaboration with InnovaFi ducia, has come to an end. It involved a group of children and was 
the prototype of a platform for creating dialog between young people and the world of work and for building a community 
to fight social marginalization.  
 
As part of its commitment to the enhancement of historical and artistic heritage , FTIM  signed an agreement with the 
Municipality of Rome on December 2015 which provides funding of 6 million euros for the restoration of the Mausoleum 
of Augustus, a priceless monument from the 1st century A D.  
In addition to the restoration convention, another agreement was signed with the municipal council for enhancement 
and multimedia activities, to be directly implemented by FTIM, an expense of 2 million euros. Work is expected to be 
complete by December  2021. Full details of the project can be found on the http://www.mausoleodiaugusto.it/ website, 
which has received many national and international awards.  
 
Also within the remit of artistic and historic heritage, FTIM has come out with “L’arte che accoglie: inclusione nei musei 
attraverso l’utilizzo di tecnologie innovative” (“welcoming art: inclusion in museums through innovative technologies”), 
which creates solutions based on innovative, acces sible, effective and efficient technologies in order to make artwork in 
museums enjoyable for everyone. Sixty -three institutions took part in the competition (as leads or partners) and 42 
projects were presented. The evaluations are under way to find the w inner.  
 
In 2019 FTIM opened an internal competition, “TIMPEOPLE for Good”, to support the best proposals by people from the 
TIM Group.  
 
In the field of social empowerment , FTIM has confirmed its decade -long commitment to people with special needs. The 
prog ram will last several years and involve screening, IT campuses, digital books and the dissemination of a more inclusive 
approach in schools. "Dislessia Amica Livello Avanzato" ("friends of dyslexics: advanced level") is a project begun in the 
2018 –2019 sch ool year, aims to qualify 85% of Italian schools as "friends of dyslexics", through a free e -learning course 
for all teachers, from nursery to high school, with specific training for different school years.  
 
FTIM knows that inclusion begins with recognizi ng and understanding a problem, so in 2019 it started a big digital 
campaign for World Dyslexia Day. Its aim is to create a more inclusive atmosphere, based on a culture of teaching children 
with specific disorders. The campaign wants everyone to see what it is like living with this problem.  
 
Elsewhere in social empowerment, FTIM is dealing with communication and developmental disorders through two 
important initiatives. Smart@pp  2.0 involves setting up a platform to train teachers how to monitor children's 
development and use teaching strategies favored for developmental problems in nurseries. In the field of autism, we 
have opened the tender for “Liberi di comunicare. Tecnologie  intelligenti per superare le barriere dell’autismo” (“Free to 
communicate: intelligent technologies for getting over the barriers of autism”), through which we intend to use the most 
innovative technologies to create effective, adaptable and lasting solut ions for people with autism.  
  
Last but not least in social empowerment, we are bringing to a close the "SmarTevere" project, done with Agenda Tevere 
Onlus. This involved sustainable growth, environmental and cultural preservation and urban and social rege neration on 
the river Tiber. We wanted to give the river back to Rome and turn it into a shared place.  
 
In the interests of a culture of innovation , FTIM launched Unistem Reloaded, which will take place over 2019 and 2020, in 
a joint action with Centro Uni Stem at the University of Milan, to inspire young people to choose training and professional 
courses in science and technology, spread reliable and provable scientific information in a stimulating, fun way, and 
ensure the results have a real impact. Within  this we also created Unistem Tour, a two -year project for thousands of 
high -school pupils aged 16 to 19, in which some of the top Italian scientists will stop at 30 schools around the country, 
from North to South and on the islands.    TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
24 
 Instituto TIM  
In 20 13, the TIM Institute was founded with the aim of defining strategies and providing resources for the dissemination 
of science and innovation to support the development of the community in Brazil, particularly by means of mobile 
technology.  
Four areas of a ctivity were identified in which to develop projects:  
• education/teaching  
• application  
• work  
• social inclusion  
 
The Instituto TIM’s projects are carried out according to the following criteria . 
 
TOOLS  STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES  PROJECT SELECTION AND MONITORING  
• Partnerships with 
organizations, institutions and 
public and private entities.  
• Free software/open source 
technologies and materials.  • Implementation of educational 
projects for the social inclusion 
of young people and teenagers.  
• Implementation of training 
projects to encourage daily use 
of the Internet and mobile 
phones as tools for social 
development and inclusion.  • Projects are selected according to 
their relevance to the company’s 
strategies and requirements.  
• Initiatives are monitored and a final 
evaluati on is carried out on 
completion. A report is drawn up for 
each project that provides a detailed 
description of the initiative and the 
results achieved, also in quantitative 
terms.  
Instituto TIM's work has already reached all 26 Brazilian states and the Fe deral District, benefiting more than 700,000 
people.  
Below are some of the projects it has completed.  
O Círculo da Matemática do Brasil (Brazilian Math Circle)  
One of the greatest obstacles to scientific and technological progress in Brazil is the poor s tandard of maths teaching in 
schools. According to the Ministry of Education, only 42% of students in the third year of primary school can do simply 
arithmetic like addition and subtraction. In PISA1 in 2018, based on the results achieved in maths  by its students, Brazil 
came 70th on a list of 79 countries.  By focusing attention on the first few years of primary school, the O Círculo da 
Matemática do Brasil project, working with its founders, professors Bob and Ellen Kaplan of Harvard University, introduces 
the Maths Circle approach to the Country, perfecting and adapting its content to the Brazilian context.  Launched in 2013, 
the project has involved around 25,000 pupils and 4,500 teachers in 29 cities.  
 
 
  
                                                                 
1 Program for International Student Assessment.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
25 
 TIM Tec  
One of the Brazilian government’s priorities is to increase the availability of professional and technological education 
courses. In 2011, the government launched PRONATEC1 on which 6 million people are currently enrolled. One of the 
initiatives of PRONATEC is the e -TecBrasil Network, which provides free technical and training courses and long -distance 
qualifications.  
TIM Tec is a distance learning platform that uses the MOOC (Massive Open Online Courses) concept2. These courses, 
which are provided and made available for free o n the platform, are intended for pupils at high schools and students at 
technical colleges. Anyone can enrol on the courses, which teach programming languages and how to create databases, 
websites, games and many other things. There are also courses for pr imary school teachers and others intended to 
improve the skills considered to be basic for the training of any professional, such as how to write well. The technology 
and content of the TIM Tec platform are share with Federal Institutes of Education, Scien ce and Technology, with the 
support of the Department of Vocational and Technological Education of the Ministry of Education (SETEC/MEC). The TIM 
Institute supports the Federal Institutes in the process of installing and using the platform. Currently the p latform offers 
30 courses, on which about 60,000 people are enrolled.  
Busca Ativa Escolar - Instituto TIM and UNICEF  
There are 3.8 million children and teenagers out of school in Brazil. These are young people from 4 to 17 years old who 
are being deprived of rights guaranteed by the constitution and of developing skills that will be necessary in their future 
adult lives.  To ensure the right to learn, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) launched the initiative to cope with 
school exclusion Fora da Escola Não Pode! (Out of School Children).  
In 2014, Instituto TIM joined UNICEF to develop the technological solution B usca Ativa Escolar, a free software platform 
that will facilitate and encourage the work of municipalities in the active search of those 3.8 million children and 
teenagers. The objective is to provide public managers with an innovative approach to reach ou t to children who are out 
of school by means of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs).  
The technological solution enhances the coordination of different areas of government, as everyone have access to the 
same database. The system allows each m unicipality to monitor their children out of school, cross information through 
filters, identify the highest demands, sort them by neighborhood or age group, check the open and resolved cases. With 
this type of quality information, public managers have mor e subsidies to monitor and make decisions on how to tackle 
school exclusion in their municipality. Now, more than 3,000 Brazilian municipalities are enrolled in the platform.  
Further information about Instituto TIM's programs and initiatives is available in the TIM Participações Sustainability 
Report at https://institutotim.org.br/ .  
 
 
Corporate Governance  
[GRI 102 -18] [GRI 102 -19] [GRI 102 -24] TIM S.p.A.’s  governance system is structured in the conventional way and provides 
for a management body (Board of Directors) and a control body (Board of Statutory Auditors). The Board of Directors is 
appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting on the basis of lists presen ted to those entitled to vote that overall own at least 
0.5% of the ordinary share capital3. [GRI 102 -22] [GRI 102 -24] The only stakeholders represented in the Board of Directors 
are the shareholders. Directors’ powers are granted (and revoked) by the Boar d of Directors, which determines the 
purpose, limits and methods by which they are exercised.  
TIM’s Articles of Association require the least represented gender to account for at least one third of the total number of 
directors, rounded up to the next uni t in the event of a fraction.  
                                                                 
1 Programme for Access to Technical Education and Employment.  
2  MOOC: Massive Open Online Courses.  
3 or any other amount that may be required by the regulations issued by Consob.. TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
26 
 TIM’s Articles of Association provide that at least half of the candidates drawn from the majority list and at least half of 
those drawn from the minority lists must meet the independence requirements set by law, with the res ult that the 
number of TIM’s independent directors is higher than that required by law. The qualification requirements for Directors’ 
independence are established by the CLF1 and the Corporate Governance Code of Borsa Italiana, to which TIM adheres.  
From J anuary 1, 2020, with the coming into force of Law no. 160 of December 27, 2019, an increase in the "pink quotas" 
present in the corporate bodies of listed companies is expected, ranging from one third (as provided for in the TIM statute) 
to two fifths of t hose chosen. This will entail an adjustment of the statute, which will have to incorporate the new 
legislative provision, but will have no effect on the composition of the TIM Board of Directors, which already respects this 
proportion, as there are current ly 6 female members out of a total of 15 directors.  
 
[GRI 102 -22] The Board of Directors in office as of May 4, 2018 consists of 15 members, including 12 independents. On the 
company’s website (telecomitalia.com) under the heading About Us/Board of Directo rs/Composition each director’s role, 
nationality, appointment date, list of presentation, independence status and membership of the Board of Directors are 
shown; the curriculum vitae of each member is also available on the Board of Directors' website. The Directors’ skills 
range from specific TLC sector experience to media and content, from mergers and acquisitions to risk management and 
top management in large companies. More details are available via the telecomitalia.com website. [GRI 102 -31] 13 
meetings  of the Board of Directors were held in 2019.  
[GRI 102 -27] The Directors take part in specific meetings with the management or external consultants, aimed at 
providing adequate knowledge of the industry in which TIM operates, business dynamics and their evolution. Workshops 
on new technologies and educational -informative meetings are held prior to strategic meetings. Updates regarding the 
relevant legislative framework are provided in specific briefing notes. During 2019 the Councilors were also involved in 
training meetings on sustainability; in December 2019 a me eting was held with Enrico Giovannini, spokesman of ASviS2. 
[GRI 102-18] [GRI 102 -24] The Committees are established and renewed in order to: support and monitor the 
implementation of strategies and the development of plans and results; ensure the overall coordination of business 
actions and the governance of related cross -cutting issues; strengthening the operational synergies needed between the 
different functions involved in the different innovation, technological, business and support processes. encoura ge the 
integrated development of the Group's innovation processes.  
The committees currently set up within the Board of Directors are the Control and Risk Committee, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, the Related Parties Committee and the Strategy Committee. Each Committee has its own 
rules of procedure which describe the composition of its members, how they are appointed and how they operate: more 
details are available on the telecomitalia.com website.  
 
[GRI 102 -28] For the 2019 financial year, the self -assessment of the size, composition and operation of the Board and its 
Committees was carried out with the support of the consultant Egon Zehnder. The board review is carried out every year 
(since 2005). The assessmen t methods and results are illustrated in the Report on Corporate Governance. Sustainability 
issues were not addressed in the 2019 self -assessment.  
                                                                 
1 Consolidated Law on Finance . 
2https://asvis.it/  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
27 
 GRI 102-19] [GRI 102 -20] [GRI 102 -23] [GRI 102 -26] The Board of Directors of June 27, 2019 took note of the r esignation of 
Mr. Amos Genish in whose place Mr. Franck Cadoret was accepted to the Board.  
Director Cadoret has been a member of the Strategic Committee since August 1, 2019.  
The Board of Directors of October 21, 2019 appointed Salvatore Rossi as Chairman of the Board of Directors after 
Chairman Fulvio Conti resigned on September 26, 2019.  
In addition to the powers granted by law, the Chairman (who plays a direct part in the Strategic Committee) is granted 
the governance of Fondazione TIM.  
The proxies and  powers granted to the Chief Executive Officer include overall responsibility for the company and 
administration activities, responsibility for the development and implementation of strategic, industrial and financial 
plans and all the organizational respo nsibilities to ensure the management and development of the business in Italy and 
South America [GRI 102 -32] in addition to the responsibility for sustainable activities, including preparation of the 
Sustainability Report/Consolidated Non -Financial Stateme nt. 
[GRI 102 -19] [GRI 102 -20] The system by which the CEO delegates powers to the departments that report to him, and 
they in turn to their staff, is the subject of a specific company procedure that establishes the methods by which this 
system must be impl emented (Granting and Revocation of Powers) and the regular checks on it. Sustainability matters 
are delegated to the head of the Administration & Financial Statements and Sustainability Reporting Department to 
which the Sustainability Reporting, Monitorin g and Relationship department reports. The first organizational reports may 
in turn delegate certain powers to their collaborators; [GRI 102 -21] in particular, powers are granted in this way to manage 
relations with stakeholders (customers, suppliers, publ ic administration, employees, etc. described in the Stakeholder 
Engagement section of this document).  
[GRI 102 -25] The company procedure for carrying out related -party transactions1, drawn up in compliance with Consob 
Regulation No. 17221 of March 12, 201 0, is systematically updated (last revision July 24, 2018) and is available on the 
company’s website ( https://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/about -us/governance -system/regulations.html l) and outlined 
in the Report on Corporate Governance (Directors’ interests and related -party transactions). The disclosure of any 
transactions with related parties during the relevant period is included in the “Transactions with rel ated parties” chapter 
of the Annual Financial Report.  
On October 16, 2017 and November 2, 2017, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers issued measures taken on the basis 
of the investigation regarding the exercise of the powers deriving from the so -called "golden power". In 2019 the 
Legislator, in addition, used a specific prime ministerial decree on 5 September to impose the exercise of special powers 
with regard to the supply of 5G technology produced outside Europe. Further details can be found in th e Group’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements.  
[GRI 102 -29] [GRI 102 -30] [GRI 102 -11] The internal control and risk management system consists of a set of rules, 
procedures and organizational structures intended to ensure the healthy and proper management o f the company, in a 
way that is consistent with the established goals, through an appropriate key risk identification, measurement, 
management and monitoring process. Being responsible for the internal control and risk management system the Board 
of Direct ors defines the system guidelines, verifying their adequacy, effectiveness and proper operation, so as to ensure 
that the main risks facing the company (including operational, compliance, economic and financial risks) are correctly 
identified and managed o ver time.  
The establishment and maintenance of the internal control system are entrusted to the Executive Director and to the 
Executive responsible for preparing the company’s accounting documents in his/her area of responsibility, so as to ensure 
the over all adequacy of the system and its effectiveness, from a risk -based perspective, which is also considered when 
determining the agenda of Board meetings. The coordination of subjects involved in the internal control and risk 
management system is outlined in  the Report on Corporate Governance. The internal control system is contained in the 
so-called “Organizational Model 231”, i.e. an organizational and management model adopted pursuant to Legislative 
Decree 231/2001, aimed at preventing offenses that may re sult in liability for the company.  
                                                                 
1 “Related parties” of TIM refers to physical or legal entities related to TIM pursuant to the Consob regulations. The Procedur e also applies to the 
parties to significant shareholders’ agreements, pursuant to Art. 122 of the CLF that governs candidacies fo r the position of Director of the 
Company, if it turns out that the majority of Directors appointed has been drawn from the slate presented by participants in shareholders’ 
agreements. Further details are available in “Transactions with related parties” in  the Report on Operations.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
28 
  
[GRI 102 -33] [GRI 102 -34] [GRI 102 -17] In November 2015, TIM implemented the new Whistleblowing1 procedure, which 
provides for the centralized management, by the Audit Department, of all reports -including those that are  the 
responsibility of the Board of Statutory Auditors, particularly in its role as the 231 Supervisory Body -via a compute app 
which whistleblowers can use to access the company Intranet. Since 2016, this reporting channel has also been accessible 
via the  Group’s website. Reports may be made by any employee, collaborator, consultant, freelance worker, as well as 
third parties who have business relations with the Group. The system assigns each report a unique identification code 
which enables the whistleblo wer to check the processing status in anonymity.  
[GRI 102 -17] [GRI 103 -1] As stated in article 4 of the Group Code of Ethics and Conduct, any requests for clarification 
regarding the appropriateness of one’s own conduct or the conduct of other people, in o rder to ensure full compliance 
with the Code and the values set by the Code itself, must be addressed to the Head of the Audit Department of TIM S.p.A. 
or to the Head of the Audit Department of the Group’s overseas company directly involved, in accordance with specific 
internal procedures.  
[GRI 102 -17] Using the Whistleblowing procedure, the entities must be promptly informed of the following by the 
recipients of the Code and those who have undertaken to comply with it:  
• any violations, requests or inducemen ts to violate legal provisions or regulations, provisions of the Code and internal 
procedures with regard to the activities and services of interest to the Group;  
• any irregularities or negligence in accounting procedures, keeping of relevant accounting documentation, fulfilling 
reporting obligations or internal management in Group companies.  
There are no negative consequences for those who have made a report in good faith and the confidentiality of the identity 
of people making reports is in any case gua ranteed by appropriate internal procedures, subject to legal requirements.  
No recipient of the Code, employee or third party having business relations with the Group can be subject to sanctions or 
otherwise discriminated against if he/she refuses to perform actions or adopt a conduct which are considered, in good 
faith, to infrin ge the Code, even if this refusal should result in a loss of business or other adverse consequence for the 
company’s business and/or the Group.  
 
In Brazil  TIM Participações uses an automated end -to-end management system of reports, accessible via the intr anet 
and from the company’s website, automatically recording all reports received and allowing the reporter to monitor the 
progress made on each case.   
  
[GRI 102 -34] In 2019, the Whistleblowing procedure resulted in 165 reports made in Italy and 927 in Brazil. The Human 
Rights section of this report illustrates the reports received concerning alleged violations of Human Rights and 
employment rights. The Board of Statutory Auditors’ Report states the number of reports received by the Board of 
Statutory Aud itors and provides a summary of the assessments carried out by the Board itself.  
 
[GRI 102 -35] [GRI 102 -36] The remuneration policy for the members of the Board of Directors is determined in accordance 
with legal requirements and the bylaws, according to which:  
• [GRI 102 -37] The Shareholders’ Meeting determines the total gross annual remuneration of the Board of Directors 
(and of the directors holding specific offices: Chairman and CEO); expresses an opinion on the first section of the 
Remuneration Report ( RR); passes resolutions regarding remuneration plans based on the allocation of financial 
instruments;  
• The Board of Directors resolves, on the proposal of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, on the allocation 
of the fees determined by the Shareholde rs’ Meeting (when established as a total amount for the body as a whole); 
it defines, again on the proposal of the Committee, the remuneration policy of Executive Directors and Key Managers 
with Strategic Responsibilities. The Board of Directors is also re sponsible for making proposals to the Shareholders’ 
Meeting regarding remuneration plans based on the allocation of financial instruments for Directors and employees 
and for drawing up the Remuneration Report (RR).  
 
                                                                 
1 The aforementioned Procedure  was being updated, also following the entry into force of Law No. 179 of November 30, 2017, “Provisions on the 
protection of parties reporting offenses or irregularities of which they become aware of in the context of a public or privat e employment 
relati onship” and was published on January 28, 2019.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
29 
 To ensure that the choices made regardin g remuneration are appropriately investigated, in accordance with the rules on 
transparency and the strict regulations on potential conflicts of interest, the Board of Directors relies on the support of 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. In perform ing its duties, the Committee (the meetings of which are 
attended by the Chairman of the Board of Statutory Auditors or, if he/she is unavailable, by another Auditor appointed 
by him/her) relies on the assistance provided by appropriate structures of the C ompany and can also rely on the support 
of external consultants whose position does not compromise their independence of judgement.  
[GRI 102 -35] With the exception of the Chairman and the CEO, the Directors receive fixed remunerations only. The 
“Remunerat ion paid to members of the management and control body and key managers with strategic responsibilities” 
table in the RR states all the types and amounts of remuneration received by each director. Details of the fixed and 
variable remuneration components ( including any stock option), benefits and severance pay attributed to the CEO, the 
Chairman and the key managers with strategic responsibilities are illustrated in detail in the Remuneration Report (for 
directors with strategic responsibilities the data is  aggregate). In particular, the objectives assigned to the Chairman and 
CEO for 2019 are mainly of an economic and financial nature.  
The sustainability targets used to determine the management incentive system are stated in the Remuneration Policies 
sectio n of the TIM People section of this report.  
 
 
Sustainability governance system  
[GRI 102 -18] [GRI 102 -26] Monitoring of the Group’s socio -environmental matters, as well as the identification of 
sustainability initiatives and projects, lie with the Sustainability Reporting, Monitoring and Relationship Department, 
hereinafter “SRMR” - for Administration & Finan cial Statements and Sustainability Reporting (“AFSSR”) - and the 
Corporate Digital Communication & CSV Projects Department, which reports to the Head of Institutional Communication.  
[GRI 102 -32] The AFSSR department of the Chief Executive Office reports t o the CEO on the matter of the Sustainability 
Report/Consolidated Non -Financial Statement, including the materiality analysis, and periodically reports to the Internal 
Control and Risk Committee. The latter acts as a corporate sustainability and corporate social responsibility overseer, 
ensuring the consistency of actions carried out with the principles of the Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct, which 
expresses the values adopted by the Group and reference regulations.  
[GRI 102 -31] During 2019, the Board o f Directors met with those responsible for sustainability activities in February for the 
approval of the Sustainability Report, in addition to three meetings in December, one of which was conducted by Prof. 
Enrico Giovannini, as previously reported.  
[GRI 102-19] Socio -environmental responsibilities are delegated, in the same way as all other powers delegated by the 
company, by applying the procedure granting and revoking powers. In particular, [GRI 102 -20] responsibility for monitoring 
and communicating en vironmental and social issues rests with the SRMR Department, which apart from drawing up the 
Sustainability Report, manages relations with rating agencies. Responsibility for managing individual socio -environmental 
themes remains with the departments that  directly manage operations relating to these themes. [ GRI 102 -26] These 
latter departments in particular identify specific strategies and targets for improving socio -environmental performance, 
each in its own area of responsibility.  
 
[GRI 102 -21] Respons ibility for dialog with stakeholders is delegated to the departments that are operationally responsible 
for dealing with the Company’s stakeholders.  
 
 
References  
In defining and implementing its sustainability strategy and programs, the Group is inspired by the guidelines issued by 
the main global guidance and standardization organizations in the field of corporate responsibility. The system of 
sustainability management also takes into account the principal reference regulations and international standards : 
• decrees, directives, recommendations and communications of the Italian Parliament and the European Commission;  
• the OECD guidelines directed at multinational enterprises;  TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
30 
 
  standards UNI EN ISO 9001 and 14001 governing qu ality and environmental management systems;  
 principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO) Conv entions on respecting the fundamental rights of workers; 
 GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, comprehensive option; 
 AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard; 
 standard UNI ISO26000, for private and public organizations of all sizes. 
 
[GRI 102-12] [GRI 102-13]  TIM has long been a member of many environment al and social organizations, both national 
and international, formed to disseminate universally reco gnized values including respect for Human Rights, employment 
rights and environmental protection. The main associations which the Group is signed up to or part of are listed below. 
 Global Compact, the main global benchmark launched in 2000 by the UN, to which TIM has been signed up since 
2002. TIM is a member of the Global Compact Network Italy; 
 ITU (International Telecommunications Union) the UN’s main agency for Telecommunications and Information, as 
well as a reference point for governments and the private sector in the development of networks and services; 
 ETSI (European Telecommunications Stan dards Institute), the main European standardization organization for 
telecommunications; 
 GSM Association, an international association of leading mobile phone operators, conducts studies on the positive 
contribution of technology to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve the UN 's Sustainable Development 
Goals; 
 GRI, a body set up in 1997 by CERES, Coalition for Envi ronmentally Responsible Economies, with the aim of developing 
globally applicable gu idelines for drawing up sustainability reports; 
 GeSI (the Global e-Sustainability Initiative), a global partnership of ICT companies to promote the sustainable 
development of new technologies; 
 ETNO (European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Asso ciation), a trade association which aims, among other 
things, to develop a competitive and efficient European telecommunications market through coordination between 
operators and dialog with state bodies; 
 JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation), a joint initiative between telecommunication operators to perform sustainability audits 
of the production plants of their respective suppliers in geographical areas that present a high social and 
environmental risk. TIM is one of the three founding members; 
 CSR Manager Network Italia, the associ ation for the sharing of trend studies and analysis on topics related to 
sustainability and business performanc e improvement through the integration of sustainability best practices. 
 
 
 
Codes, Policies and Charters 
[GRI 102-16]  In the belief that the success of the company cannot be separated from business ethics, the Code of Ethics 
and Conduct and the Human Rights Policy of the TIM Group set out the objectives and values  of the Company’s activities 
in respect of the main stakeholders with whom the Group interacts. 
The Service Charters, which are intended to simplify the relation ship with customers and make it more direct, set out the 
principles of conduct and undertakings given by TIM regarding the quality of the services offered. They also provide information regarding the ongoing improvement of quality st andards and contact channels available to customers. The 
Service Charters are available via the Group’s commercial websites (tim .it, impresasemplice.it.). 
The General Conditions of subscription for fixed tele phony are also published in telephone directories. 
Furthermore, in order to comply with the various resolution s of the Italian Communications Authority regarding quality, 
the objectives set for each year for the individual services (fixed and mobile voice services, Internet access services, call 
center services for customer support) ar e published on the relative websites.  
Among the other codes relevant to sustainability to which TIM has signed up, we should mention the Equal Opportunities 
Charter, the Self-regulation code for mobile services, the Co de of Conduct for premium rate services and the Corporate 
Governance Code for commercial communication (ava ilable on the teleco mitalia.com website). 
Information on the Group's other commitments are available in the Sustainability section of the website, via the following link http://www.telecomitali a.com/tit/en/sustainability.html. 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
31 
  
 
Fight against corruption  
[GRI 103 -1] [GRI 205] Corruption is amply acknowledged as one of the factors that harms company competitiveness, 
socio -economic growth and community well -being.  
Confirming the ongoing Group commitment to fight any form of corruption, in 2019 the Parent, TIM S.p.A. adopted the 
Anti-bribery Management System (also ‘SGA’) for which it attained UNI ISO 37001 “Anti -bribery Management Systems” 
certification through a credited body. The anti -bribery management system was defined to support the company in the 
prevention, recognition an d response to actions linked to corruption, in accordance with applicable anti -corruption laws 
and the other voluntary undertakings that apply to its business, and is integral to the broader internal control system 
implemented by the company.  
 
The SGA includes the following tools:  
• Code of Ethics and Conduct;  
• the Group Anti -Corruption Policy (adopted in 2012 with latest update in 2019), to provide a systemic reference 
framework for how to manage preventing corruption1;  
• the document “Anti -Corruption Man agement system of TIM S.p.A.”;  
• company protocols, especially Organization and Operating Procedures.  
The TIM Anti -corruption Management System integrates the broader anti -corruption compliance program, including the 
231 Organizational Model (approved by th e Board of Directors in 2003 and recently updated in July 2018) which also 
includes the corruption prevention area. Moreover, during 2019 a 231 Organizational Model revision and updating process 
began, concerning how the model was designed and the risk ass essment method. The new 231 Organizational Model is 
expected to be released in the first quarter 2020.  
[GRI 205 -1a] The anti -bribery management system applies to TIM and the members of its corporate bodies, employees 
and various business partners. Subsidia ries are required to apply the anti -bribery management system or certain controls 
for the prevention of corruption to the extent that is reasonable and proportional with respect to the risk of corruption 
that said subsidiaries are subject to.  
From an organ ization point of view, the Compliance Department, assigned to the Group Compliance Officer, is attributed 
the compliance function role for preventing Corruption, responsible for implementing and monitoring the Anti -bribery 
Management system in the company and, more generally, its compliance with Standard ISO 37001 requirements. 
Moreover, the Steering Committee 231 is assigned general responsibility for implementing and compliance with the Anti -
bribery Management System.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GR I 205] The Anti -corruption Policy identifies the following sensitive areas, 
specifically monitored to guarantee compliance with the prohibition to accept or offer bribes:  
• gifts and entertainment expenses;  
• events and sponsorships;  
• donations/membership fees;  
• buying of goods and services;  
• consultancy, brokering, Business Partner;  
• joint ventures, acquisitions and sales;  
• screening, recruitment and management of staff.  
 
                                                                 
1 available at the link (www.telecomitalia.com, section The Group, Governance/Procedures System)  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
32 
  
[GRI 205 -1b] When the corruption risk assessment process was over, TIM identified a low corruption risk related: (i) to 
specific categories of transactions, projects or activities, (ii) to relationships expected or already in place with relevant  
third parties or (iii) specific categories of people (relevant positions). On these transaction, p roject and activity categories, 
Relevant Third Parties or Relevant Positions due diligence audits were carried out (Anti -corruption Due Diligence) going 
in-depth into the type and extension of the corruption risks . 
 
In Brazil , related to TIM Participações, the company adopts the foreign version of the 231 Organizational Model of TIM 
constituting the Anti -corruption Compliance Program applying the local anti -corruption law (Ley 12.846/13). Consistent 
with provisions required at  group level, in September 2018, the Brazilian subsidiary adopted a new version of the Código 
De Ética e De Conduta e della Política Anticorrupção. Moreover, during 2019, the project to adopt Standard ISO 37001 was 
launched, with the assessment phase of th e processes/activities relevant at company level, to identify any gaps with 
respect to adoption of the standard for subsequent certification. The Standard is expected to be adopted in the second 
half of 2020.  
 
[GRI 103 -3] [GRI 205]  The Head  of the Complian ce Department is appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company to 
which it reports.  
The variable short -term remuneration plan (MBO) assigns the Head of Department objectives in keeping with the 
prevention of crimes under Legislative Decree 231/2001 a nd applying what is set forth by ISO 37001, in compliance with 
the relative regulations.  
The Group adopts the Whistleblowing Procedure that, unless specifically forbidden by local laws, encourages and allows 
employees and third parties in general to report  an attempted, suspected or effective corruption action, in good faith or 
based on a reasonable conviction, by reporting it to the TIM Audit Department. For that purpose, a single report 
transmission channel is available thus allowing reports to be managed  with a maximum guarantee of confidentiality and 
protects those making a report in good forth or based on a reasonable conviction, of an attempted, suspected or effective 
action of corruption or a breach of the Code of Ethics and Conduct and/or the 231 Org anizational Model and/or the Anti -
corruption Policy against reprisals.  
[GRI 205 -3a] [GRI 205 -3b] [GRI 205 -3d] No incident of corruption has taken place in the Group companies in the past 3 
years, nor have any legal proceedings been started on grounds of co rruption against Group companies in the same period. 
It follows that none of the Group’s companies recorded penalties or concluded plea bargains in relation to corruption in 
the last three years. [GRI 205 -3c] With regard to suppliers, in the past 3 years T IM has never terminated a contract for 
reasons related to corruption.  
The Group’s commitment to the topic is also demonstrated by its participation in various working groups. TIM is a member 
of the “231 and Legality” Working Group organized as part of the Confindustria initiatives and during the course of 2018 
contributed to  the drafting of the new Confindustria Guidelines. In addition, TIM participates in the working groups set up 
at B20 for the implementation of the recommendations made at G20/B20 level on anti -corruption matters.  
 
[GRI 103 -3] [GRI 205]  At the end of 2018, TIM took part in a survey conducted by Transparency International amongst the 
main Italian companies in the private sector to map the anti -corruption commitment. It was concluded with an index on 
transparency (Business Index on Transparency -BIT).  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 205]  Moreover, since 2016, TIM has participated in the Business Integrity Forum 
promoted by Transparency Italia to develop activities in the private sector relating to cultural programs and the 
dissemination of tools to support  integrity, transparency and anti -corruption. On June 13 and 14, 2019, TIM took part in 
the Business Integrity Events, an initiative by Transparency International Italy in collaboration with the Pisa Scuola 
Superiore Sant’Anna focused on themes concerning integrity . 
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 205] The Anti -corruption Management System and the Anti -corruption Policy, 
the 231 Organizational Model and the Code of Ethics and Conduct are communicated to employees through specific 
initiatives and are published on the intranet portal. The Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Anti -corruption Policy are 
communicated to third party recipients through publication on the website, whereas third parties doing business with 
Group companies are obliged to commit c ontractually to complying with the principles laid out in those documents.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
33 
 TIM regularly provides suitable, appropriate training to corporate bodies and employees on anti -corruption subjects as 
well as on application of the 231 Organizational Model. As par t of the on -boarding training for new recruits to TIM S.p.A., 
specific anti -corruption is also provided.  
Every two or three months, the Compliance Department sends all first and second reporting levels in the organization a 
report containing the main regu latory and legal novelties also on anti -corruption and the responsibilities of bodies.  
The targeted training campaigns are periodic and, in any case, are held when internal regulations, such as the 231 
Organizational Model, are updated.  
 
[GRI 205 -2] Train ing campaigns  
TIM S.p.A  2019  2018  2017  
 number  %* number  % number  % 
Senior Managers  8 1.4%  2 0.3%  344 51.2%  
Middle Managers  604 2.0%  25 0.6%  2723  60.7%  
Office Staff  86 0.2%  202 0.4%  29,544  54.4%  
Total  698 1.3%  229 0.4%  32,611  54.9%  
 
*Number of participants out of total of the category  
 
[GRI 205 -2] In Brazil,  anti-corruption training, in e -learning or in the classroom, is mandatory as part of the Pertencer 
programme; In 2019, the online course for the Anti -Corruption Compliance Program (Organizational Model) was taken by 
95% of employees; the same percentage for the Code of Ethics online course . 
 
Legal framework and compliance  
[GRI 103-1, 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 206] [GRI 415]  The Group’s activities are conducted in full compli ance with 
current laws in the countries in which it operates and with universally accepted ethical principles, based on transparency, 
fairness and loyalty.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach]  [GRI 415]  [GRI 206] [GRI 415 -1] In particular, the Code of Ethics explicitly bans any 
direct or indirect disbursements, contributions, advantages or benefits of any kind to political parties, political movements  
or trade unions or to their representatives or candidates.  
[GRI 206 -1] The TIM Group was identified as a participant in the following major litigations related to anti -competitive 
behavior, violations of anti -trust regulations and monopoly practices.  
Anti-trust case A428  Year 2013 for abuse of a dominant position. In 2017 TIM wa s notified of the final outcome by the 
AGCM, which recognized TIM as fully compliant with the A428 provision and as such not punishable by non -compliance 
sanctions. Vodafone disputed the final decision adopted by the AGCM on the non -compliance investigatio n with the Lazio 
Regional Administrative Court (TAR). TIM filed an appearance, as in the other lawsuits filed in March 2017 by the operators 
CloudItalia, KPNQWest Italia and Digitel.  
Anti-trust proceedings I761  Year 2013 The AGCM has granted TIM an extensi on to the preliminary investigation started in 
March of the same year regarding some companies active in the sector of fixed network maintenance services and aimed 
at verifying the existence of a prohibited agreement in accordance with Article 101 of the T reaty on the Functioning of 
the European Union (TFUE). In December 2019, the Council of State ruled in favor of TIM and canceled the AGCM I761 
provision, remanding the task of implementing ex novo the preliminary investigation to the AGCM, within the limit s 
decided by the Council of State itself.  
Anti-trust case A514  Year 2017 regarding the possible abuse of dominant position in the markets of wholesale access and 
retail services using the broadband and ultra -broadband fixed network. In July, 2018 TIM filed  proposed commitments 
which, if accepted by the Authority, would close the investigation without any offense being established or sanction being 
administered. In September 2019 the AGCM resolved on a new extension of the procedure's deadline, setting it in  February 
2020.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
34 
 Anti-trust case I799  Year 2017 investigation for possible breach of Article 101 of the TFUE (prohibition of agreements that 
restrict competition) against TIM S.p.A. and Fastweb S.p.A. TIM, in agreement with Fastweb, submitted some 
amendment s to the AGCM, in the form of proposed commitments, aimed at closing the investigation without any breach 
being ascertained and, therefore, without any fine. In March 2018 the AGCM resolved to approve the commitments, 
making them binding on the parties, an d closed the case without imposing a fine.  
Anti-trust case I820  Year 2018 the AGCM initiated I820 preliminary proceedings against the companies TIM, Vodafone, 
Fastweb, Wind Tre and the industry association Asstel to investigate the alleged existence of an agreement among the 
major fixed -line and mobile telephone operators to restrict competition by coordinating their respective commercial 
strategies, in breach of Article 101 of the TFUE. On January 31, 2020, TIM was notified of the closing of the investigat ion, 
where the AGCM resolved that an agreement between Telecom, Vodafone, Fastweb and WindTre existed but excluding 
from this the Asstel association. The fare imposed on TIM for participating in the anti -competitive agreement amounts  
to 114,398,325 euros . TIM intends to appeal against the sanctions.  
Anti-trust case PS11379  – mobile winback actions Year 2019 For the alleged misconduct of mobile winback actions. The 
challenged aspects concern deceptive communication given to the target of reference and the ag gressiveness of the 
conduct. Proceedings concluded in December 2019 and confirmed unfair conduct, with a sanction of 4.8 million euros for 
TIM (VO sanctioned for 6 million euros and WIND/3 for 4.3 million euros). The decision will be challenged before the TAR.  
Antitrust Proceedings IP 312  - Fiber non -compliance Year 2019 by autonomous decision of the AGCM regarding the alleged 
non-compliance with the PS10696 measure on advertising communications of offers in fiber. TIM stated its defense and 
the investigati on was concluded on August 2019 with a fine of 200,000 euros.  
Anti-trust case PS11532  – "TIM in Nave". Year 2019 the investigation concerns the "TIM in Nave" services with allegations 
of misleading customer information and aggressiveness. Consistent effort s to improve information so as to make 
consumers fully aware of how "TIM in Nave" services operate were presented. The investigation is expected to be 
concluded in May 2020 and no sanction is anticipated in the event of its validation.   
Anti-trust case IP  327 - non-compliance with IBAN discrimination, Year 2019 Authority acting on its own motion, the 
investigation concerns the alleged non -compliance with PV4 practices related to IBAN Discrimination in April 2019. In 
particular, the AGCM disputes that the d irect debit mandate process on the web channel is not yet automated and as 
such the customer cannot manage this activity independently. TIM has removed all form of discrimination from direct 
debit mandates with banks in Italy and in the SEPA area and intro duced full automation of the mandate process on the 
web. The investigation is expected to be concluded in April 2020. Similar investigations towards other major operators 
have also been set in motion.  
Privacy Guarantor Procedure  On January 23, 2020, the Gu arantor Authority for the protection of personal data notified 
the Company of the final provision of the procedure started in July 2019.  
With the provision - which mainly concerned telemarketing activities, involving inter alia issues such as the managemen t 
of some Apps, the TIM Party program and some cases of data breach - the Guarantor ordered the definitive limitation of 
some treatments, imparted prescriptions and imposed a fine of 27,802,949 euros, equal to 0.2% of TIM SpA's 2018 
turnover. On 13 Februar y 2020, the Guarantor Authority shared the interpretations proposed by the Company, also 
accepting TIM's request for an extension of the terms. planned for the execution of some of the corrective measures. The 
Company therefore decided not to appeal the me asure and proceeded to pay the fine reduced by 50%  
 
For further information please refer to the "Contingent liabilities, other information, commitments and guarantees" Note 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements. [GRI 419 -1] The same Note contains a desc ription of all the Group's other 
disputes.  
 
 
 
 
Stakeholder engagement  
TIM believes it is fundamentally important to consider the opinions and expectations of its stakeholders, that is to say the 
parties who for various reasons have an interest in or impact on the Company’s activities, and vice versa.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
35 
 [GRI 102 -40] The stake holders with whom TIM comes into contact in the conduct of its business are many and very varied. 
In 2019, for ease of management, they were grouped into seven macro -categories, thanks to a dual policy of 
benchmarking on comparable companies and internal c onsultation:  
 
 
 
Notes in the table:  
a: by Authority is meant independent authorities, for example of supervision and control such as the Italian Communication Au thority 
or the Italian data protection authority, or, in Brazil, ANATEL (National Telecommunic ations Agency) and MCTIC (Ministry of Science, 
Technology, Innovation and Communication).  
b: the “Companies of the TIM Group” have been considered as stakeholders and, more specifically, as "Customers" (e.g. TMS - Telecom 
San Marino) and "Suppliers" (e.g. Olivetti) both to facilitate the mapping process of the stakeholders who have a relation with TIM and 
to highlight possible feedback issued to determine materiality.  
 
In the same year, for the functions in charge, TIM organized a training workshop on stak eholder engagement, on its 
importance for the definition of materiality issues and on the new methodology adopted in the company that makes use 
of a collaborative platform equipped with applications for sustainability and semantic analysis techniques and b ig data. 
Then, in order to identify the most relevant stakeholders for the company, the designated employees were asked 
(following the criteria of the AA1000SES standard) to insert on the platform the map of the relevant stakeholders, the list 
of events an d the relevant relationships managed with the most important stakeholders; the issues raised during these 
events. On the same platform, in 2020 TIM intends to implement further stakeholder engagement and collaboration 
initiatives useful both to feed in "re al time" the process of updating the materiality analysis with the results of the 
comparison carried out on it, and to make the involvement of stakeholders more continuous and solid, keeping the 
relationship channels open, and to co -design to create shared  value.  
 
[GRI 102 -42] [GRI 102 -43] The stakeholder engagement process takes place on a regular basis both during the course of 
the company's operations and in the implementation of specific projects.  
On the basis of Company goals, business -related and not, relevant stakeholders are identified for every project, priority is 
assigned to them, and the most suitable strategies for building relations are studied, which can include individual 
meetings, group meetings, information sessions, shared projects, su rveys, focus groups, etc.  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
36 
 The feedback that the various stakeholders provide to TIM is analyses to identify solutions the Company can offer to 
satisfy the specific requirements. At the end of the feasibility analysis and verification process, TIM decides w hich solutions 
to offer, which projects and which initiatives to undertake. Stakeholder involvement continues beyond this and serves to 
monitor and adjust the initiatives.  
TIM has drawn up general guidelines for group stakeholder engagement and a set of p olicies associated with different 
kinds of stakeholders, including customer service charters, a policy on relations with suppliers in purchasing processes, 
the code of conduct for protecting the data of other local operators, guidelines for relations with local authorities and 
other organizations, guidelines for voluntary contributions to the Community.  
Customers  
With a view to including customers, general satisfaction is measured (Customer Satisfaction Index), as are the conciliation 
procedures, as descri bed in the "Value chain" section of this report.  
 
Shareholders  
The Group is aware of the importance of providing accurate information on its activities to the financial market, investors 
and the community in general.  
Subject to the need for confidentiality in the running of the business, communication with the financial market is carried 
out in a way that ensures transparency, fairness, clarity, promptness and equality of access to information, ensuring 
equality of tre atment for all categories of shareholders, as required by the bylaws.  
The external communication of information is governed by specific internal procedures, in line with the regulations in 
force.  
The Company has set up dedicated channels of communication  with shareholders, bondholders and stakeholders 
interested in receiving information about the financial and non -financial aspects of the Company.  
The Investor Relations Department manages relations with the main stakeholders: institutional and retail inv estors 
(including small shareholders’ associations), bondholders, socially responsible investors, equity and credit analysts.  
 
Once again in 2019 the Company organized quarterly conference calls, road shows abroad, meetings with the institutional 
offices of the Group (reverse road show) and participation in sector conferences; these activities were accompanied by 
direct contacts and phone conversations managed by the Investor Relations team on a daily basis.  
 
For a detailed focus on the activities carried  out over the year and the topics of greatest interest that emerged, refer to 
the “Information for Investors” section of the TIM Group’s 2019 Annual Financial Report and the dedicated area of the 
website www.tel ecomitalia.com . 
 
The “TI Alw@ys ON” Shareholders’ Club ( telecomitalia.com/individuali ) was launched in 2006 as a virtual meeting place 
for the Company and its individual investors. Free access to the  Club allows you to subscribe to and receive economic -
financial information services (weekly stock market report, SMS alerts, etc.).  
 
Financial communication, finally, focuses on the web as an important means of sharing information with the outside 
world:  in this sense, the Investors channel on the website telecomitalia.com  is constantly updated with presentations of 
the quarterly financial results, intermediate and annual reports, notices and documentation usef ul for the Shareholders’ 
Meeting and the financial calendar of the Company.  
 
 
[GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] The Group’s main stakeholder engagement initiatives taken in 2019 are summarized in the 
Appendix.  
In the diagram, each initiative is marked by an icon that represents the type of relationship:  
• “information” refers to one -way communications by the Company with stakeholders;  
• “consultation” refers to the occasions when stakeholders are asked for their opinion through surveys or similar tools;  
• “dialogues” refers to the discussions and ongoing and stable cooperation between the Group and stakeholders;  
• “partnership” refers to the specific projects that are managed together.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
37 
 In 2019, with the aim of knowing and analyzing the external vision with respect to t he most relevant issues for its strategy, 
TIM invited a selection of its stakeholders to register in the area reserved for consultation on the RE2N collaborative 
platform. Specifically, this initiative is part of the new methodology adopted by TIM for mate riality analysis (described in 
the dedicated paragraph in this chapter) that leverages the potential of digital, including through sustainability activities .  
 
Each initiative mentioned in the table provided in the Appendix includes a reference to the rele vant chapter and section 
of this report in which the initiative is discussed in detail.  
 
 
Materiality Matrix  
[GRI 102 -46] In 2019, in compliance with Legislative Decree 254/2016 and the requirements of the Global Reporting 
Initiative Standards, TIM conducted a materiality analysis with the aim of identifying the material topics as regards the 
socio -environmental and economic impacts of the business activities both within and outside the Company.  
Methodology  
In keeping with the methodology started in 2017, TIM assessed the validity of the material issues identified the previous 
year, validating or revising categories and definitions to make them more specific, adopting evolved semantic analysis1 
techniques, to analyze a larger number of information sources and analyze big data and digital engagement, in order to 
collect external points of view.  
 
The process followed is in compliance with the “Guidelines for updating the TIM materiality analysis” , updated in 2017 in 
line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and was created and managed in collaboration with RE2N2, a 
company that develops innovative tools for sustainability and shared value, using computational approaches to semantic  
and big data analysis.  
 
The SRM&R function held one -to-one meetings with the company's frontlines during which, in addition to presenting the 
methodology and the path of materiality analysis starting from the 2018 matrix, it collected information and use ful 
indications on the tree of the topics to be evaluated. At the same time the taxonomy3 to adopt in the semantic engine 
was updated, using the same sustainability and digital references as those in 2017, in more recent versions and expanding 
the number. In particular:  
• Global Reporting Initiative Standard, ISO 26000 , Sustainable Development Goals and specialist assessments4; 
• Italian Digital Agenda, Objectives of the European Digital Single Market and dedicated indexes5, besides regulatory 
references which are relevant for TIM and its stakeholders.   
 
At the same time, the documents linked to the Group’s core business were updated and integrated with new 
documentary sources for analysis, selecting Italian and international, public and non -public sources, inte rnal and external 
to TIM6.  
 
The semantic engine analyses all the sources of information with different interactions. This process led to the definition 
of a list of themes based on the occurrences7 found in the various documents and the logical correlatio ns between them. 
                                                                 
1The techniques involve automatic text analyses designed to extract structural data which codify the semantic co mponent of textual content. 
The algorithms of the semantic engine that analyses all the sources of information were trained with “sustainability” and “di gital” components.  
2https://www.re2n.com/welcome . RE2N col laborated with the University of Bologna to develop the methodology.  
3 Each taxonomy is made up of interrelated concepts and keywords with different correlation and significance levels. Each taxon omy was 
constructed using both Italian and English terms.   
4 For example RobecoSam (Dow Jones Sustainability Index), FTSE4good and Sustainalytics questionnaires.   
5 For example, the Digital Economy Society Index which monitors different aspects of the digitization level of the individual E uropean countries.  
6 For example: The Italian government's “Piano nazionale italiano per l’Agenda 2030” ("Italian national plan for the 2030 Agenda"),  the “Ernst & 
Young Megatrends report 2018”, the “Fair and Sustainable Well -Being in Italy 2018” (BES) report promoted by the N ational Council for 
Economy and Labour (CNEL) and the National Institute for Statistics (ISTAT).  
7 The occurrences identify the number of times that a concept (or a specific term) is detected within the document by the seman tic engine and 
provide an indica tion of the significance of the topic detected in the context of the document.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
38 
 The more a theme, a concept, reoccurs in the analyses documents (and therefore the more it occurs), the more it can be 
considered “relevant” for the sector.  
 
 
Identification of relevant themes  
At the end of the analysis, TIM was able to draw up a list of themes to be assessed to identify the priorities of the Company  
and those of external stakeholders: In particular, the activities carried out made it possible to name and describe in detail  
the issues identified in 2018, narrowing the list to those more specific to TIM and its stakeholders :  
▪ correctness of corporate conduct;  
▪ stakeholder engagement;  
▪ integration of social, environmental and governance aspects into corporate strategies;  
▪ managing the  workforce;  
▪ development of the company's human capital;  
▪ managing the health and safety of workers  
▪ fair management of customer relationship;  
▪ safeguarding privacy and personal data protection and security;  
▪ Investments in 5G and UBB infrastructure development , and in R&D; 
▪ protect diversity and promote equal opportunities in the Company;  
▪ stimulate the spread of e -technologies and e -skills;  
▪ integration of social and environmental aspects within the supply chain;  
▪ protection of vulnerable groups (cyberbullying, ch ild pornography, gambling);  
▪ promoting and safeguarding human rights;  
▪ reducing energy consumption and fighting climate change;  
▪ impacts of electromagnetic emissions  
▪ fostering the development of an inclusive digital society.  
 
 
Attribution of relevance scores to the topics  
The 17 issues that emerged from the analysis described above have been submitted for stakeholders' evaluation and to 
TIM's management, in order to define the degree of priority in the 2019 matrix.  
The internal viewpoint was provided by Top M anagement which, thanks to the involvement of a significant sample of 
representative contact people from the company’s main departments, expressed its opinion on the importance of each 
theme for TIM’s strategy1.  
 
Collecting external points of view was done with innovative tools such as semantic and big data analysis2, and on the 
collaborative platform on which RE2N set up an area for TIM to consult and involve its stakeholders3.  
This approach has enabled TIM to:  
• further extend listening to more stakeholders;  
• make dynamic the observation of the themes in order to measure their evolution over time.  
 
About 490 TIM stakeholders have been invited to the consultation and 98 have participated, representing institutions, 
suppliers, customers, the busine ss community of the sector, civil society and the financial community. With regard to 
People, findings from the "Engagement 2019" survey, completed by over 30,000 employees, have been taken into 
                                                                 
1 Based on the following scale: 1=barely influential; 2=limited impact; 3=direct influence; 4=significant influence; 5=decisive . 
2 In keeping with activities of the previous yea rs, stakeholders involved in engagement activities were surveyed, in addition to many other entities, 
for a total of approximately 500, concerning 8 categories of TIM stakeholders. Three types of sources were identified for the  analysis:  
• documents issued by stakeholders (in particular sustainability reports);  
• statements issued on company websites;  
• discussions on social networks concerning the themes identified thanks to TIM Data Room activities.   
3Ninety -seven people replied to the questionnaire, representing institutions, suppliers, customers, industry business community, civi l society, 
financial community and people, providing their own assessment of the issues – using the same scale used by manag ement for the internal one 
– as well as suggestions and feedback;  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
39 
 consideration. At the end of the analysis, TIM gave a score o f relevance based on the occurrence of the issues1 and the 
votes expressed by stakeholders during the survey, weighted on the basis of the mapping carried out in 2019 by consulting 
the company functions.  
 
The following matrix of materiality is the result o f such activities:  
 
 
 
 
 
These themes, priorities for TIM and for their stakeholders, reflect the Sustainable Development Goals2 to which the 
company believes it can contribute to a greater extent through its people, technologies and services, adopting bus iness 
practices (policies) that promote and protect Human Rights and the environment.  
 
Specifically, the relevant Objectives are:  
• No. 4: Quality education  
• No. 5: Gender equality  
• No. 7: Affordable and clean energy  
• No. 8: Decent work and economic growth  
• No. 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure  
• No. 10: Reduced inequalities  
• No. 11: Sustainable cities and communities  
• No. 12: Responsible consumption and production  
• No. 13: Fight against climate change:  
• No. 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions  
 
Validation  
The validation of the themes and of the entire materiality analysis process was carried out by the Sustainability Reporting, 
Monitoring and Relationship (SRMR) office of Administration & Financial Statements and Sustainability Reporting 
departme nt, with the support of RE2N and TIM Data Room. TIM Data Room3 is the department of TIM Group that analyses 
                                                                 
1  Scores ranged from 1 to 5, where 1 is the minimum frequency, 5 the maximum frequency, 3 the average frequency (calculated fro m the average 
occurrence of the topics taken into considerati on). 2 and 4 are attributed in proportion to the minimum, average and maximum scores. Finally, 
the final score was calculated, weighted by the significance attributed to each source according to the different time period s covered in the 
analysis.    
2 un.org/sustainabledevelopment/  and asvis.it/agenda -2030/   
3 https://www.linkedin.com/showcase/10989548/admin/  
 
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
40 
 digital data from the internet through listening, reporting and benchmarking. The governance of TIM’s sustainability is 
explained in the Sustainabil ity Governance paragraph of this document. The matrix was approved by the Control and Risk 
Committee on November 4, 2019.  
 
Review  
The review phase is expected to take place as a preparatory stage prior to the next reporting cycle, with the aim of 
submittin g the results of the analyses carried out, updated the following year, to specific consultation and involvement 
activities as part of stakeholder engagement. As already reported, in 2017 the Group revised the “Guidelines for updating 
the TIM materiality an alysis” so that they comply with the GRI Standards and are organized in a transparent manner for 
the analysis process.  
 
Boundaries  
[GRI 102 -47] All the themes that are judged to be material have major implications both inside and outside the Company 
and are cross -cutting topics that are relevant to all the consolidated companies in the Group, wherever these may be, 
without exception, and which are relevant to all external and internal stakeholders, these being. The material themes 
identified are:  
• correct ness of corporate conduct  
• stakeholder engagement  
• integration of social, environmental and governance aspects into corporate strategies  
• integration of social and environmental aspects within the supply chain  
• managing the workforce  
• managing the health and safety of workers  
• development of the company's human capital  
• fair management of customer relations  
• promoting and safeguarding human rights  
• protect diversity and promote equal opportunities in the Company;  
• reducing energy consumption and fighting climate change  
 
Other topics mainly concern Group companies acting as operators in the ICT world, which represent the main part of the 
Group in terms of turnover, employees, including in terms of the impact on external stakeholders:  
• stimulate the spread of e-technologies and e -skills;  
• protection of vulnerable groups (cyberbullying, child pornography, gambling)  
• safeguarding privacy and personal data protection and security  
• Investments in 5G and UBB infrastructure development, and in R&D  fostering the developm ent of an inclusive 
digital society  
• impacts of electromagnetic emissions  
 
The topics mentioned above are more relevant to stakeholders who live in Italy, a country where TIM is the main operator 
and the Company on which stakeholders pin their greatest hope s. 
[GRI 102 -49]. Finally, there have been no significant changes in the business perimeter (and therefore of boundary 
importance) in the last few years . 
 
 
 
Risk management  
[GRI 102 -15] [GRI 102 -29] [GRI 102 -30] [GRI 102 -11] The Group has adopted an Enterpr ise Risk Management Model 
(hereinafter ERM) which allows risks to be identified, assessed and managed uniformly within Group companies, 
highlighting potential synergies between the parties involved in assessing the Internal Control System. The ERM process 
is designed to identify potential events that may influence the business activity, in order to manage risk within acceptable 
limits and provide a reasonable guarantee that business objectives will be achieved.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
41 
 The process adopted is cyclical and includes the following stages:  
• definition of the Risk Appetite and of the Risk Tolerances;  
• Risk Assessment;  
• Risk Response;  
• drawing up the Reporting Flows.  
The process is managed by the ERM Steering Committee, which is chaired and coordinated by the Head of the Sec urity 
Department. The Steering Committee ensures the governance of the Group’s risk management, aimed at guaranteeing 
the operational continuity of the business, monitoring the effectiveness of countermeasures taken.  
For more details on the process and it s phases, please refer : http://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/en/sustainability.html   
The ERM process carried out at Group level has highlighted that commercial activities of the Domestic Business Unit show 
a different risk profile than those of TIM Participações in Brazil. For greater clarity, descriptions of the solutions adopte d 
in each parameters have been reported separately.  A summary of the risks connected with material themes is given in 
the table below, whilst a brief summary of the main types of risk identified by the ERM system is contained in the Main 
Risks and Uncertainties cha pter of the Annual Report.  
 
Material themes  
CORRECTNESS OF CORPORATE CONDUCT  
Risks  Management  
Compliance risks in relation to the 
reference legislation (Legislative 
Decree 231/2001), current asymmetric 
and transparency regulation (Italian 
Communication Authority), legislation 
in force on competition and consumer 
protection (Italian Anti -trust 
Autho rity), management of conflict of 
interest and implementation of the 
provisions established by CONSOB 
regarding related -party transactions.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
Risks connected to corporate 
governance, integration of the 
strategy with corporate values and 
culture, management of transactions 
with related parties and identification 
of conflicts of interest.  TIM adopts rules and governance policies to guarantee proper management, 
so it can protect its assets. It also makes sure its processes are consistent 
through its compliance departments, whose autonomy is ensured by the 
Board of Directors. The company implements the Borsa Italiana 
recommendations for listed companies in Italy and has implemented an 
internal risk control system structured on three levels, wh ich integrates the 
corporate governance responsibilities of the corporate bodies. TIM also 
manages relations with the relevant authorities and consumer protection 
associations in order to optimist its offer on the basis of market expectations 
and in compli ance with legislation. As part of Legislative Decree 231/2001 and 
anti-trust regulations, the company has also implemented a specific training 
plan for employees. Finally, the Company has equipped itself with a 
procedural system and a web -based portal for the prevention and 
management of conflict of interest situations, in order to eliminate negative 
impacts on the Company's interests and support and protect the people 
involved who are required to be transparent.  
TIM has a policies and standards that regula te internal processes, consistent 
with the principles set forth in the corporate Code of Ethics and Conduct. 
Pursuant to the TIM articles of association (article 29 (VII)), the Statutory Audit 
Committee is responsible for the revision, assessment and for e xpressing an 
opinion on any contract, in order to guarantee compliance with the 
requirements of free competition. In addition, matters related to conflicts of 
interest are managed and monitored through questionnaires on the conflict 
of interest related to the parties, through a channel updating information on 
conflict of interest reports and as part of the selection and recruitment 
process.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
42 
 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  
Risks  Management  
Risks related to general sustainability 
topics, partnership management 
(strategic, innovative technology, 
multimedia and entertainment), 
dispute management and dealing 
with related decisions (appeal, 
conciliation, etc.) and the protection of 
workers’ rights, including the right to 
privacy.  
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
Risks connected to purchasing and 
negotiating with suppliers, integration 
of the strategy with corporate values 
and culture, management of 
transactions with related parties and 
identification of conflicts of interest  TIM oversees relations with its stakeholders through vario us dedicated 
departments. These carry out various initiatives and projects to involve and 
consult stakeholders, to improve the company's environmental, social and 
governance performance, maximizing reputation and value. Sustainability 
reporting Monitoring & Relationships oversees the various stakeholder 
engagement initiatives and monitors their outcomes. In particular, Chief 
Innovation and Partnership Office, in conjunction with Chief Strategy, 
Customer experience and Transformation Office, governs innovati on and 
research activities to develop new services through the incubation of 
technologies, enhancing strategic partnerships and the ecosystem of start -
ups. The company also oversees the management of the process of external 
and internal disputes, in accord ance with the provisions of TIM's 231 
Organizational Model (including the Code of Ethics and Conduct), as well as 
in compliance with the internal procedure governing the execution of 
transactions with related parties, and safeguarding workers' rights, incl uding 
the right to privacy.  
 
To circulate its guiding principles, values and conduct expected, TIM 
Participações has introduced corporate standards, including its own Code of 
Ethics, the anti -corruption policy and the organizational model, in line with 
the sector's best practices and with principles declared in the Global Compact 
of the United Nations, which the Group formally adhered to in 2008.  
 
 
INTEGRATION OF SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND GOVERNANCE ASPECTS INTO CORPORATE 
STRATEGIES  
Risks  Management  
Risks related to the  failure to adopt 
ESG indicators for measuring 
company performance in relation to 
the objectives set in the company 
strategies . 
 
In Brazil  the risk was not deemed 
significant.  TIM has internal policies and procedures that integrate sust ainability issues 
into company processes; the Corporate Digital Communication & CSV 
Projects department oversees the implementation of projects for generating 
shared value, in addition the Sustainable Reporting, Monitoring & Relationship 
departments overse es the relevant legislation and monitors the progress of 
sustainability issues.  
 
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
43 
 MANAGING THE WORKFORCE  
Risks  Management  
Risk related to the failure to 
implement/incorrect interpretation of 
legislation on workers’ rights 
(safeguarding of workers’ rights, 
including the right to privacy; safety in 
the workplace)  
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
Risks related to the management of 
the workforce and employees' rights, 
mainly in terms of health and safety 
regulations in the workplace.  
 TIM is compliant with the obligations on workplace safety also through the 
definition and periodic updating of the Risk Assessment Document. It also 
guarantees the i mplementation of legislation on workers’ rights defining 
appropriate application standards aimed at personnel management roles as 
well as regulations and specific provisions aimed at all personnel. The 
Performance Management process, regularly implemented at both 
management and operational staff level, defines systems for measuring 
performance at all levels, professional and managerial, providing fair and 
objective recognition of the individual merit of enabling the development 
processes and plans.  
TIM Part icipações adopts a policy that defines the principles applicable to all 
internal activities of the Company and aims at promoting continuous 
improvement of health and safety in the workplace. It also guarantees the 
observance of related laws and regulations  and of the Group's guidelines, 
contributing to the prevention of accidents and occupational illnesses in 
companies of the TIM Group in Brazil.  
 
DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY'S HUMAN CAPITAL  
Risks  Management  
Risks related to the adaptation of 
specialist skills needed to ensure 
business transformation with a focus 
on the development of 5G networks 
and associated innovative services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
The risk was not deemed significant.  
 TIM optimise's  the mix of capabilities necessary to maintain a competitive 
advantage in mature markets and strengthen the positioning in those 
focused on digital and innovative services (e.g. IoT in the context of 5G). In 
order to achieve said objectives, skill assessme nts are structured for the 
mapping of existing skills and training courses, often available on a dedicated 
online e -learning platform and intended for multiple subjects according to 
personal development business needs. There are also initiatives for specif ic 
training and workshops held in person, according to the strategic need to 
develop company skill sets, especially digital skill sets.  
Of note in 2019, in Italy, is the signing of the expansion contract between the 
company and the social partners which, a mong other things, envisages the 
launch of a recruitment programme, seeking professional profiles compatible 
with the company's re -industrialization/reorganization plan and the 
implementation of a skills upgrading programme for all personnel, to support 
retraining, reskilling and upskilling, including key internalisation of core, 
advanced and traditional technical and specialist activities.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
44 
 MANAGING THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF WORKERS  
Risks  Management  
Risk related to the failure to 
implement/incorrect interpretation of 
legislation on health & safety at work 
and to implement the provisions of 
company policies in the “Safety” area.  
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
The description of this risk and its 
related management have been 
considered within the theme 
"Management of th e workforce"  
 TIM is compliant with the obligations on workplace safety also through the 
definition and periodic updating of the Risk Assessment Document. It also 
guarantees the implementation of legislation on workers’ rights defining 
appropriate application standards aimed at personnel management roles as 
well as regulations and specific provisions aimed at all personnel.  
It uses criteria and instruments to identify and manage the different Safety 
operating problems, and a control system at differ ent levels on protecting 
health and safety in the workplace and the environment performed by the 
Health, Safety & Environment department as part of the Company Prevention 
and Protection Service.  
In order to further strengthen governance on Safety issues, during the year 
the company set up a specific steering committee with the responsibility of 
ensuring, in line with TIM's industrial plan, the definition of the strategic 
objectives of Health Safety & Environment, the vertical action plans of the 
individual  employer lines and the transversal actions, as well as the 
monitoring of the relative progress and finally ensuring the sharing of specific 
activities aimed at promoting the "Safety Culture" and good behavior in 
terms of health, safety and the environment . 
 
 
FAIR MANAGEMENT OF CUSTOMER RELATIONS  
Risks  Management  
Risks related to the improvement of 
Quality and Customer Experience  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Company has redefined and evolved the Quality and Customer 
Experience Improvement Programme ("TIM around the Customer" 
reference), in a "quality -by-design" logic. The “TIM around the Customer” 
project includes various initiatives based on transparency,  simplicity and 
respect for the customer. In this field, improvement plans have been 
launched with targeted actions and various initiatives that, with the aim of 
transforming the culture, involve all employees in innovative ways: “make the 
difference”, “id ea sharing” and a story about customer experience (where 
employees are the actors). To drive this transformation TIM has developed an 
extensive listening system, which picks up on customer experience in the 
different “moments of truth” of the customer jour ney, for example: web 
browsing, purchasing a service, calling customer care, reporting a 
malfunction, posting on social media. Of the surveys conducted, the 
monitoring of the Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI), based on the ACSI 
standard (American Customer Satisfaction Index), is particularly significant. 
The aim is to collect information on the quality perceived by TIM customers 
and the main competitors.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
45 
 In Brazil  
Risks related to the non -improvement 
of Quality and the Customer 
Experience   
The TIM strategic three -year plan aims to speed up the digital transformation 
and improve the customer experience with a quality and value proposal 
based on three strategic pillars:  
• Construction of offers based on the needs of customers  
• Promote the expansion and evolution of network infrastructure  
• Efficient management integrating sales and service ch annels  
TIM Participações offers its customers several physical service or digital 
channels. When managing service and process improvements, the company 
considers customer feedback provided through these channels, conducts 
surveys and monitors systemic err ors.  
TIM Participações also takes part in the users' Council, an Anatel initiative that 
brings together operators, mobile segment users and the representatives of 
consumer protection bodies.  
 
 
SAFEGUARDING PRIVACY AND PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION  
Risks  Management  
Risks related to the application of the 
current legislation on privacy and risks 
related to protection and security of 
personal data.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
 The TIM Group has a system of procedures and controls which ensure 
compliance with current regulations, puts in place concomitant monitoring 
activities on the evolution of the regulatory scenario and performs ongoing 
dissemination and internal training activities. With reference to the new 
privacy regulation GDPR No. 2016/679, the TIM Gr oup, starting with the 
operating model already in place under current Privacy legislation, activated 
that necessary for compliance with GDPR, defining the Data Protection 
Officer organizational structure and processes. TIM also has an ICT Risk 
Management p rocess which includes the cyber risk mapping and, also in 
keeping with the needs expressed by the control bodies, coordinates the 
identification of intervention areas on a priority basis in order to ensure the 
control and management of the overall cyber ri sk for the entire perimeter of 
TIM and its subsidiaries. The ICT Risk Management process contributes to the 
security of information by managing the process of assessing and handling 
the operational risks of ICT resources in order to ensure: a) a level of 
confidentiality, integrity and availability of the information proportional to the 
respective value of the business, that is, the direct or indirect losses that a 
security incident can result in for the services provided to its customers; b) 
The security of  the services provided to its customers and the levels of 
operational continuity stipulated in the contracts; c) The security of the 
personal information of employees, in compliance with current legislation 
and for employees’ protection.  
TIM Participações adopts the best practices in compliance with ISO 27001 
guidelines, the standard for the information security management system 
(ISMS - Information Security Management System), though without 
certification. Since 2015, the Company has been part of the human  rights 
work group of the Brazilian Global Compact network, and acknowledges that 
it has to protect rights like data privacy, secure Internet, access to information 
and freedom of expression.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
46 
  
 
INVESTMENTS IN 5G AND UBB INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT AND IN R &S  
Risks  Management  
Risks related to the engineering and 
implementation of the enabling 
infrastructures for innovative 
solutions, to the preparation and set -
up of the fixed and mobile ultra -
broadband (UBB) and 5G network 
infrastructures, necessary for the 
provision of the new services and to 
overcoming architectural limitations  
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
Risks associated with the engineering 
and implementation of infrastructures 
for innovative solutions, the 
preparation and installation of 
network infrastructures in line with the 
Strategic Plan.  
 
 
 The TIM group has adopted a new integrated approach to "corporate 
innovation" through the cross -functional coordination of innovation 
processes and their end -to-end monitoring by the Chief Innovation & 
Partnership Office . The technical departments of TIM supervise the 
company's technological processes in the general engineering and planning 
context for network/service infrastructures, those of new generation network 
development (FTTx - 5G) and evolution towards the cloud network, also 
considering the search for innovative services.  
At the same time, the Company’s technological processes through an 
integrated digital transformation programme that includes the architectural 
and application simplification of IT systems and th e network with the aim of:  
- updating the structure of IT systems and networks to adapt them to new 
technologies with the help of criteria aimed at minimizing the environmental 
impact based on the Group environmental policy;  
- dismantling obsolete systems and platforms, progressively reducing the 
associated energy consumption;  
- developing innovative ICT solutions and services that allow increased use of 
digital channels, allowing all stakeholders to interact more efficiently, 
minimizing the environmental i mpact.  
 
 
With regard to fiber expansion, FTTH (Fiber to the Home) coverage includes 
over a million families located in 11 cities - the number of registered addresses 
amounts to a total equivalent of 4.3 million persons during the year. On the 
topic of 5G, even if discussions are at a very early stage in Brazil, TIM believes 
that the next auction of 5G spectrum will keep the Brazilian market abreast 
with international developments while promoting innovation and the 
creation of knowledge. TIM's objective is t o work with strategic partners to 
spread 5G technology in Brazil  
 
 
PROTECT DIVERSITY AND PROMOTE EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES IN THE COMPANY  
Risks  Management  
Risks related to the management of 
compliance with legislation on 
workers’ rights  
 
 
 
 
 
 The company has a skills model for staff focused on addressing the 
transformation related to the new external and business scenarios and 
structured in four areas: Execution, Proactivity, Speed, Systemic Vision. In 
2018, an additional skill was introduced, across the 4 areas and for all roles: 
“Diversity and inclusion”. The aim of this is to stimulate integration and 
enhance diversity throug hout the company population, placing particular 
importance on gender equality.  
The business results on inclusion management are measured by the growth 
of TIM people’s performance in the “Diversity and Inclusion” area.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
47 
  
In Brazil  
Risks  related to integration of the 
company values and culture strategy, 
and to sustainability and social 
responsibility.   
In July 2018, TIM Participações creat ed a multi -disciplinary committee on 
diversity (Elo Diversidade) to make sure that diversity initiatives are 
increasingly more effective. The group mission is to propose new ideas, 
improve accessibility, build a welcoming environment and develop new 
source s of talent.  
 
 
STIMULATE THE SPREAD OF E -TECHNOLOGIES AND E -SKILLS  
Risks  Management  
Risks related to the integration of 
sustainability issues within the 
strategic business vision and with 
carrying out activities not in line with 
Corporate Social Responsibility.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
Risk related to the lack of integration 
of the company's sustainable 
development strategy, company 
management generating problems 
relating to the social, ethical and 
environmental impacts of company 
activities.  
 TIM has internal policies and procedures that integrate sustainability issues 
into company processes; the Corporate Digital Communication & CSV 
Projects department oversees the implementation of projects dedicated to 
the generation of shared value. In addition, Su stainable Reporting, Monitoring 
& Relationship oversees the relevant legislation and monitors the progress of 
sustainability issues.  
The digital education project for Italy "Operazione Risorgimento Digitale" by 
TIM, launched during the year with the aim of  boosting the country's 
digitization process, promoting the adoption of new technologies by an 
increasingly large pool of citizens (about 1 million) through training courses in 
over 107 Italian provinces, should be highlighted. Moreover, through TIM 
WCAP, TIM's open innovation hub, the company oversees the theme of Italian 
digital transformation, selecting ideas, projects, products and services by 
identifying startups and SMEs with innovative digital solutions with the aim 
of integrating the best in TIM's o ffer and technology.  
 
 
In Brazil, TIM adopts an innovation policy, Educação Conectada, that is 
integrated with other public policies and with the objectives of Brazil's 
national education program (PNE). A key purpose of the plan is secondary 
education for which, by the end of 2024, the federal government has set its 
target to have 85% of the high school adolescents enrolled in secondary 
school.  
 
In 2019, the TIM Institute continued supporting projects consistent with its 
mission to create and strengthen res ources and strategies for the 
democratization of science, technology and innovation to promote human 
development in Brazil, with mobile technology as the primary activator.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
48 
  
INTEGRATION OF SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS WITHIN THE SUPPLY CHAIN  
Risks  Management  
Risks related to the selection and 
qualification of suppliers/partners and 
products and to the management of 
passive contracts (agreement, 
archiving and monitoring).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
Risks associated with the selection 
and qualification of suppliers  
 TIM, in the supplier qualification phase, in accordance with the Anti -
Corruption Policy, provides for the adoption of due diligence questionnaires 
and the application of the conflict of interest procedure. In addition, in 
accord ance with the Group’s environmental policy, which provides general 
guidelines for responsible and sustainable protection of the environment, the 
company also selects its suppliers and partners and purchased or outsourced 
products on the basis of environmen tal sustainability criteria and assesses 
products and services taking into account their whole life cycle, periodically 
checking compliance with the above criteria along the entire life cycle. The 
company identifies and assesses environmental risks general ly present at the 
various levels of its supply chain and, in close collaboration with its direct 
suppliers and also through partnerships at national and international level, 
adopts appropriate corrective actions and improvement plans to reduce the 
environm ental impact of purchased products and services and their 
production processes. Periodic spot checks are also made on Risk linked to the 
selection and purchase orders to ascertain whether there are purchases of 
goods for resale and production that do not c omply with the provisions of the 
conflict minerals regulation.  
Finally, Ethics and Social Sustainability checks are carried out in order to 
assess both suppliers' adherence to schemes and principles of ethical 
business conduct and the adoption of procedur es to ensure the health, safety 
and rights of workers, compared with the principles underlying the Global 
Compact and using international parameters referring to the SA 8000 and 
ISO 14001 standards.  
 
 
All contracts and purchase orders include provisions fo r suppliers to observe 
the Group's Code of Ethics and the Global Compact's principles, such as 
respect for labor and human rights, environmental protection, the anti -
corruption fight, and child and forced labor. These commitments are also 
included in the d eclarations that all suppliers sign as part of the onboarding 
process. Key suppliers are evaluated on aspects such as ethics, child and 
forced labor, health and safety in the workplace, freedom of association and 
rights to collective bargaining, discrimina tion, harassment, diversity and 
management of the environmental impact.  
 
 
 
 
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
49 
  
PROTECTION OF VULNERABLE GROUPS (CYBERBULLYING, CHILD PORNOGRAPHY, GAMBLING)  
Risks  Management  
Risks associated with the 
management of activities in the field 
of logic security (cyber security, 
information/security system 
protection), penalties from regulatory 
non-compliance and risks to 
reputation and compliance with 
relevant regulations (Legislative 
Decree 231/2001)  
 
In Brazil  
The risk was not deemed significant.  
 
 The TIM Group – in accordance with current regulations – provides the 
customer with a series of tools to protect minors from accessing the sensitive 
content provided, providing constant updating and related communication.  
TIM deploys resources, technologies, processes and tools to prevent and 
tackle “abuse”, i.e. any activity committed in violation of the rules of conduct 
and the legislation that govern the use of network services, digital systems or 
means of communication in general with continu ous supervision carried out 
by the Security Operations Center in collaboration with the involved internal 
departments and with the competent external authorities.  
 
 
PROMOTING AND SAFEGUARDING HUMAN RIGHTS  
Risks  Management  
Risks of compliance with the relevant 
legislation (Legislative decree 
231/2001)  
In Brazil  
Risk related to determining corporate 
values and culture not consistent with 
the strategic plan.  
 
 The Group makes grievance mechanisms available to internal and external 
stakeholders, to be used  in case of violations, as expressly required by the 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. These mechanisms are 
available on the Group’s websites. Reports may also be sent anonymously.  
TIM Participações is a member of the Global Compact Network Brazil's 
Human Rights Working group since 2015.  
As part of the due diligence process, it uses the Diagnostics questionnaire on 
human rights capabilities (HRCD) developed by the German Global Compact 
Network to assess the level of human rights commitment and management 
in the pertinent departments.  
 
 
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
50 
  
REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND FIGHTING CLIMATE CHANGE  
Risks  Management  
Risks associated with the 
environmental impact of its activity 
and the management of energy 
efficiency projects and monitoring of 
energy consumption  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
Risks associated with failures and/or 
inefficiencies in using and managing 
energy with resulting problems in the 
supply of services and in the 
environmental impact due to the low 
efficiency of consumption.  TIM, recognizing the importance of identifying and evalu ating all the impacts, 
positive and negative, even potential, that its activities and the products and 
services made available to its customers may have on the environment, 
implements a process of continuous improvement through initiatives and 
projects aim ed at minimizing the environmental footprint of the company's 
activities, customers and stakeholders in general.  
In terms of energy, TIM is constantly committed to improving its performance 
energy efficiency, adopting purchasing policies that take account of 
environmental issues and proposing innovative technological solutions to 
individuals, companies and government for lowering environmental impact. 
In this context TIM has equipped itself with an Energy Management System 
developed, implemented and control led with reference to the ISO 50001 
Standard. Every year the company sets itself the objective of reducing 
emissions and energy consumption, despite the continuous development of 
new -generation networks, while at the same time increasing the use of 
energy from renewable sources in company processes. Finally, TIM's strategy 
for the environment in the energy sector involves management lines that 
optimist use of energy sources and natural resources.  
 
TIM Participações has invested in renewable energy sources through 
distributed generation projects, including five hydroelectric plants in the state 
of Minas Gerais, and purchasing electricity on the free market.  
The energy efficiency initiatives implemen ted in 2018 include: the temporary 
or permanent stop of inactive equipment; freecooling, a heat exchange 
system to reduce use of energy and refrigerant gases in air conditioning 
equipment; the stop or removal of equipment from a site to save energy and 
free space for new projects.  
Water consumption is also managed for greater efficiency; for example in Rio 
de Janeiro (RJ), in the district of São Cristóvão, where TIM is developing a 
water reuse project.  
In addition, the environmental policy of TIM establishe s principles to reduce 
the quantity of waste produced to a minimum and boost the separation, 
recover and recycling of the waste itself.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
51 
 IMPACTS OF ELECTROMAGNETIC EMISSIONS  
Risks  Management  
Risks related to compliance with 
health and safety regulations and 
risks to engineering and 
implementation of enabling 
infrastructures for innovative 
solutions and preparing and setting up 
ultra -broadband and 5G network 
infrastructures  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
Risk related to the lack of integration 
of the company's sustainable 
development strategy, company 
management generating problems 
relating to the social, ethical and 
environmental impacts of company 
activities. company emissions 
management, etc.) and non -
compliance with workplace safety 
legislatio n. The issue of the impact of electromagnetic emissions, given their significant 
and growing importance in the light of the recent start -up of the 5G 
networks, is managed by the TIM Group within the scope of risks related to 
compliance with current health and safety regulations and to engineering 
and implementation of the enabling infrastructures for innovative solutions 
and preparing and setting up ultra -broadband and 5G network 
infrastructures.  
The TIM Group oversees every aspect of electromagnetic emissi ons by:  
- designing and optimizing the radio access network, ensuring that serious 
attention is given to the issue of electromagnetic emissions at every stage 
of the equipment life cycle;  
- carefully managing the plants throughout their entire life cycle with 
systematic monitoring of electromagnetic emissions levels and in 
compliance with current legislation and internal efficiency and safety 
standards for the population and workers;  
- use of, and constant research into, the latest technological instrument s 
for checks and controls;  
- continuously keeping an eye on legislation by proactively monitoring 
possible developments and always acting in compliance with legislation.  
 
Electromagnetic emissions from radio base stations (RBS) shall be assessed 
and monito red using methods established by ANATEL resolutions and kept 
within established limits. In 2018, electromagnetic emission levels were 
measured at 23.6% of sites.  
Given its national coverage, TIM Participações has RBSs within 147 protected 
areas, often on h ills or in conservation units, which are periodically 
monitored to ensure that the company's operations do not negatively 
impact upon biodiversity. At the end of 2018, TIM had over 800 active 
biosites within the network. Biosites are structures that signif icantly reduce 
visual and landscape impact. In addition to telecommunications 
transmission equipment, biosites also cover street lighting and security 
cameras.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE GROUP  
52 
 FOSTERING THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN INCLUSIVE DIGITAL SOCIETY  
Risks  Management  
Risks related to the integration of 
sustainability issues within the 
strategic business vision and with 
carrying out activities not in line with 
Corporate Social Responsibility.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Brazil  
Risk related to the lack of integration 
of the company's sustainable 
development strategy, company 
management generating problems 
relating to the social, ethical and 
environmental impacts of company 
activities.  
 TIM pays particular attention to the issues of inclusivity and valuing diversity, 
for their positive impact on the ability to generate innovation and improve 
performance, increasing people's productivity and the quality of their working 
life. TIM has been engaged in inclusivity since 2009 and was one of the first 
Italian companies to set up an Equity & Inclusion Management program. TIM 
is the first Italian company and first telco provider in the world in the Thomson 
Reuters Diversity & Inclusion Index, reac hing sixth place worldwide in 2018 
and 2019.  
TIM also works on social digital inclusion, especially in terms of economic 
benefits and specific measures for certain categories of customers, such as 
deaf, blind or visually impaired customers, customers with  low income who 
are in a situation of "economic hardship" and "social card" holders.  
In addition, TIM guarantees to support customers residing in areas affected 
by natural disasters (seismic events, floods), both in the phase of emergency 
management and in  the medium/long term, to protect their needs.  
 
TIM Participações supports an economically sustainable telecommunications 
policy that enables us to provide society with digital inclusion in a competitive 
environment. We achieve this with policy documents a ddressed to national 
policymakers and contributions to public consultations promoted by 
government authorities.  
The Educação Conectada innovation policy in Brazil is integrated with other 
public policies and the goals of the country's National Education Pl an (NEP). 
TIM acts through the TIM Institute, encouraging and providing education to 
state school students in science and mathematics that reflects the current 
state of knowledge in these fields.  
 
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
53 
 ENVIRONMENT  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
54 
 Environmental protection approach   
[GRI 103 -1, 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 302] [GRI 305]  The 2018  GeSI -Deloitte report Digital with Purpose: 
Delivering a SMARTer 2030  clearly shows how 103 of the 169 United Nations Sustainable Development Targets (SDGs) are 
directly influenced by digital technologies. The ICT sector can contain its CO 2 emissions while contributing to the reduction 
of emissions from other sectors and ci tizens thanks to the nature of its characteristic solutions: videoconferencing, smart  
work ing, telemedicine, social sharing platforms and all the related services that can support more sustainable behaviors 
and lifestyles through digitization. It has been calculated1 that the full adoption of these services would lead to a reduction 
of global CO 2 emissions by 1.34 Gt in 2030, offsetting the expected 189% growth in ICT emissions (2019 -2030).  The TIM 
Group is therefore aware of its leading role in building a  low carbon emissions future and is part of, and active in, industry 
associations and non -profit organizations which have environmental protection among their objectives2; the importance 
to TIM of environmental issues is also shown by the materiality matri x 2019, which incorporates the Sustainable 
Development Goals and translates into specific areas of intervention for TIM’s strategy for the environment, as described 
and disseminated through the Group's Environmental Policy3: 
• definition of guidelines and ma nagement approaches for optimized use of energy sources and other natural 
resources;  
• gradually reducing its own direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases;  
• selecting suppliers, partners, products and services based on environmental sustainability cr iteria as well;  
• applying environmental sustainability criteria when assessing possible mergers and acquisitions;  
• development of solutions and products that contribute to the fight against climate change;  
• dissemination among employees and stakeholders of a  correct and effective approach to environmental issues and 
allocation of human, technological and economic resources for actions to protect the environment;  
• recommending variable remuneration for achieving objectives with a positive environmental impact . 
 
Consistent with this strategic approach, the Group implements concrete actions each year, which are further detailed in 
the following paragraphs.  
In order to increase awareness of environmental protection, a training plan was introduced for internal staf f and business 
partners with 9,713 total hours of training. In June, as part of the Save Energy!  project TIM launched a campaign to raise 
awareness about what to do to avoid wasting energy and natural resources. The targets of the campaign were 45,000 
empl oyees who spend most of the day in offices throughout the country. The initiative has been allocated a highly visible 
space on the home page of the company intranet, where the Green Decalogue was published, with ten tips for the 
intelligent use of energy a nd for saving paper and water. Simple rules conveyed in a cartoonish but effective way, urging 
each employee to help to consume less, with positive effects on the environment. The driving force behind the initiative 
is the conviction that saving energy is a "responsible" practice that has no limits, except in the sensitivity, ethics and 
intelligence of each person, and that it can be achieved by starting from correct and widespread information on possible 
consumption and behavioral choices, in the knowledge  that daily activities (from the use of machinery and accessories 
powered by electricity, to the consumption of water in common areas, to the cooling/heating of rooms) inevitably impact 
on TIM's second expense item but above all on the environment.  
To ensu re the sustainable management of operational processes, the areas of TIM which have a potentially significant 
environmental impact have an ISO 14001 -certified Environmental Management System (EMS). In some organizations, 
the Environmental Management System  has been integrated with the Quality Management System based on the ISO 
9001 standard, for which the respective certification has been obtained. At some particularly representative sites, a 
certified Energy Management System has been developed. In continu ity with previous years, TIM, through the Energy & 
Utilities Management department, was also awarded the ISO 50001 certification for the sites where this system has been 
implemented. The certification includes the “historic” site in Bologna, in via Stendha l, and the Data Center in Rozzano 1, 
&2 and  Rozzano  3, the Piacenza  Centro exchange, as well as the Data Processing Centers at Padova and Bologna Roveri. 
TIM therefore has a telephone exchange in cluded in the certification  scope , on top of the already cert ified buildings.  The 
                                                                 
1 Global e -Sustainability Initiative – Digital with Purpose: Delivering a SMARTer2030.  
2 European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association (ETNO), European Telecommunications Standards Institute ( ETSI), Global e -
Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), International Telecommunication Union (ITU).  
3 Commitment to environmental sustainability in the TIM Group , December 2018 
https://www.telecomitalia.com/content/dam/telecomitalia/documents/Sostenibilita/it/Politiche/TIM -Policy -Ambientale -dic2018DEF.pdf   TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
55 
 operational activities of the technical network in Brazil in the States of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo and Espirito Santo – the 
areas in which the country’s industrial and commercial activities are mostly concentrated  – have had ISO 1400 1 
certification since 2010. TIM Participações' activities are also carried out in accordance with its own environmental policy,  
revised in 2018, which underlines its commitment to reducing waste and using natural resources sustainably.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 302] [GRI 305] The Company always undertakes to implement energy efficiency 
programs and a rational use of resources: the  Energy Management Procurement function operates within the 
Procurement department, focusing on energy issues with the mandate to identify and finalize appropriate energy 
efficiency measures in Italy. In addition, together and in coordination with the comp etent units of the Chief Technology 
Office, it ensures that the planning and implementation of the adopted solutions is consistent with the Company’s 
efficiency plans. The short -term variable remuneration policy (MBO) provides that department heads are ass igned 
objectives in line with the Group's business plan and focused on environmental protection issues and the rational use of 
resources. In recognition of its efforts on the energy front, in 2019 TIM was given "Italy in Class A" certification for its 
projects1.This initiative was promoted by MiSE  (Italian Ministry of Economic Development ) and carried out by ENEA (Italian 
National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Sustainable Economic Development ) to show companies and 
individuals how to use energy mo re consciously and sensibly.
  In Brazil , energy is a material topic given the continued network expansion. TIM Participações has a centralised 
management area for all electricity, which reports to the Business Support Officer. The Energy and Efficiency ar ea 
includes professionals responsible for controlling and planning electricity consumption, monitoring energy efficiency 
projects and monitoring the development of regulatory and energy procurement issues. In Brazil, since 2018 TIM has 
entered into agreeme nts (Power Purchase Agreements) with specialised companies that implement hydroelectric power 
plants connected to the distribution grid. TIM  Participações  leases the power plants on 15 -year contracts with the 
consequent supply of renewable energy. In 2019, over 350 GWh consumed came from renewable energy sources, around 
50% of consumption. The forecast for 2020 is for an increase in the share of renewable s ources to 60% of total 
consumption for TIM Partecipações.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 302] [GRI 305]  The performance of the main Group indicators is shown in the 
table below. For details, see 2019 Results. 2020 and multi -annual targets  at the en d of this Chapter.  
 
Indicators   Final figures 2019  
Total consumption of electricity procured and produced   ☺ Down  
Total consumption of electricity from renewable sources   ☺ Up 
Total CO 2 emissions   ☺ Down  
Eco-efficiency indicator   ☺ Up  
% of waste recycled   ☺ Constant  
 
 
 
Fight against climate change: risks and opportunities for TIM  
[GRI 201 -2] Digitization and dematerialization to achieve energy saving and reduction of  CO 2 emissions into the 
atmosphere: TIM solutions and products offer a real opportunity to mitigate climate change. In particular:  
• the audio/video conferencing  services  and flexible working reduce the need for people to travel ; 
• online invoicing and payments sa ve paper and production and transport energy and reduce the need to travel to 
make payments;  
• the services of telemedicine reduce travel for medical appointments;  
                                                                 
1 The certification was obtained in November 2019 by TIM's "Sav e Energy!" project.in its two declinations Green Decalogue Campaign and 
Green World green field contest . TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
56 
 • the infomobility solutions allow traffic flows and travel times to be optimized and therefore lower greenhouse gas 
emissions;  
• systems for the monitoring and analysis of consumption allow the optimization of the energy efficiency of offices and 
house holds . 
 
In all cases, th ere are services that in addition to optimizing production processes and logistics flows in various sectors, 
help customers reduce emissions generated by physical travel. TIM products and solutions are characterized by their 
reduced energy consumption and the ir contribution to reducing energy consumption. The efficiency improvements, 
savings achievable in economic terms and reduced environmental impact associated with the effective use of TIM 
services are also a real business opportunity for the Company: awareness is growing among stakeholders and citizens in 
general on issues related to climate change leading to companies turning their attention to ways of achieving significant 
reductions in greenhouse gas emissions to ensure a sustainable future for socie ty and the planet. These objectives are 
pursued through the initiatives described in the following paragraphs.  
The objectives that guide TIM's work in fighting climate change, can be summarized as follows:  
• actions to reduce its direct and indirect greenhou se gas emissions and limit the emissions of other sectors and 
customers in general by supporting dematerialization and the provision of services and solutions which promote new 
sustainable ways of working, learning, traveling and living;  
• communicating its  emissions and strategies for fighting climate change in the Sustainability Report and through 
responses provided to rating agencies (RobecoSAM, VigeoEiris, Oekom, FTSE4Good, etc.). TIM participates in the CDP1 
survey both in Italy and Brazil. In Brazil, f or the twelfth consecutive year, it was confirmed on the São Paulo Stock 
Exchange (B3) Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) and has participated in the national EPC -Empresas pelo Clima 
programme since 2010.  
• disseminating a culture which supports the indivi dual in contributing to the reduction of emissions.  
 
The risks associated with climate change for the TLC sector have implications of a physical, economic and regulatory 
nature, with repercussions for the image and reputation of Group companies.  
The risk  of flooding is one of the most serious physical risks for TIM and the one most likely to occur. The resulting damage 
impact ranges from reduced use to the loss of business infrastructure, with a consequent zeroing of the capacity to supply 
the service. In  order to prevent the potential damage, TIM’s new exchanges and buildings are built at a safe distance from 
rivers and bodies of water in general and, in order to ensure continuity of service, the TIM network is designed considering 
appropriate levels of r esilience and redundancy. TIM’s network infrastructure in areas characterized by a high level of 
hydro -geological risk is monitored through the TIM Ci.Pro. (Civil Protection) system, which uses a constantly updated 
database of information on local areas an d infrastructure for rapid planning of necessary intervention. Company assets 
subject to physical risks have insurance coverage commensurate with the property and equipment value, and the severity 
of the potential damage related to the service they provide . 
In Brazil , 66.6% of domestic electricity comes from hydroelectric generation2. For this reason, extreme rainfall levels or 
long periods without rain can compromise the water level in reservoirs and have an impact on the national energy supply. 
In this ev ent, TIM could be affected by energy rationing measures and fluctuations in the average kWh price due to 
climate change effects. In addition, increased extreme weather frequency and strength could damage transmission 
towers, increasing business expenses fo r the acquisition of new equipment and maintenance of existing equipment. This 
could also lead to an increase in insurance costs and signal interruption or loss of quality to the detriment of 
telecommunications services. In addition, changes in air humidit y and salinity have a direct effect on goods and 
equipment located underground and close to coastal areas with a consequent increase in operating costs. In the event 
of an average temperature increase, electronic devices whose performance is directly relat ed to stable temperatures 
could require surplus energy to be cooled. It should be noted that climate change could also increase costs for staff 
absences, as well as cause greater difficulties in reaching workplaces or locations where staff are working, hav ing an 
indirect impact on company performance.  
                                                                 
1www.cdp.net  
2According to the National Energy Report for Brazil 2019 (BEN, 2019).  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
57 
 Electromagnetism and compliance with environmental legislation in force  
The Group has always paid great attention to the issue of electromagnetic emissions. To this end its activities include:  
• careful managem ent of its equipment during its entire life cycle and in compliance with current regulations and 
internal standards of efficiency and safety;  
• designing and optimizing the radio access network, ensuring that serious attention is given to the issue of 
electr omagnetic emissions at every stage of the equipment life cycle;  
• use of, and constant research into, the latest technological instruments for checks and controls.  
 
Systematic monitoring of the levels of electromagnetic emissions in installations aims to ensure that legal limits are 
respected and high safety standards are maintained for workers and the general population. Despite Italian regulations 
on electromagnetic  emissions being among the strictest in the world, with levels set much lower than the European 
average, checks carried out in Italy have shown that electromagnetic emissions generated are within the legal limits.  
TIM invests in software development to co ntinuously update and refine electromagnetic emission predictions. In 
particular, the GUARDIAN tool calculates the level of exposure of sites that host antennas and ensures that the levels 
established by law are respected. Combined with the TIMplan design platform, its use allows the location of sites and 
orientation of the antennas in relation to a specific context (housing, roads, meeting places) to be optimised. TIM also 
participates actively in the committees and working groups of the CEI (Italian Elect rotechnical Committee) for issuing 
guidelines and technical standards on methods used to measure and forecast levels of exposure to electromagnetic fields 
issued by mobile radio systems. Accurate planning and optimization of the mobile radio network (optim um choice of 
sites, optimum use of radio transmission parameters) improves the efficiency of the network for the same amount of 
coverage, maximizing the capacity and quality of the service and minimizing interference, thus contributing to reducing 
the powe r transmitted by mobile terminals and radio base stations. Again in 2019, the following activities went on 
continuously:  
• support and training for local organizations in Electromagnetic Impact Analysis (EIA) activities;  
• evolution of software tools developed  internally to predict exposure (GUARDIAN);  
• development and maintenance of the ARPIE web application for monitoring and assessing the average power 
transmitted by radio base stations of 2G, 3G and 4G systems in accordance with the legal changes introduced  by 
Italian Legislative Decree 179/2012 “Additional urgent measures for the growth of the Country” and its 
Implementation Guidelines;  
• Preparation of guidelines for local 5G access network design, with the implementing the methodologies set out in the 
inter national and national regulatory framework;  
• Participation in joint TIM -ARPA  (Regional Agencies for Environmental Protection)  regional meetings for 
implementation of 5G network design methodologies.  
 
In addition, the introduction of Active Antenna Systems for the 5G system, which allow for generating irradiation 
diagrams on a "user basis" and no longer only on a "cell basis", required a review of the regulatory aspects related to the 
topic of electroma gnetic field exposure. For this reason TIM has been involved and has contributed to the past and 
ongoing activities of the international (IEC, NGMN, 3GPP) and Italian (CEI, ISPRA -SNIPA) regulatory bodies in this field. The 
APOGEO procedure has been applied  to mobile radio systems allowing TIM to ensure that its systems are built in full 
compliance with the design, which in turn is fully compliant with legal requirements for protecting the health of the 
population. APOGEO is an innovative methodology patente d by Telecom Italia in 2003 at the European Patent Office, 
which uses for high precision topographic and satellite instruments for 3D surveying of all radiating GSM, UMTS, LTE and 
Radio link systems and their infrastructure.  In relation to the development of the 5G system it is important to remember 
that the current limits, provided by law with a wide margin of safety, are not related to specific technologies, but concern 
the total emissions; in addition the network architecture also provides “small cell” s olutions which due to their intrinsic 
technological nature use lower radio power.  In light of these considerations, the electromagnetic emissions generated by 
5G technology do not represent a business risk. According to current scientific knowledge, emissi ons associated with base 
stations and wireless networks levels associated with radio base stations and wireless networks are not considered 
responsible for causing negative impacts on health and the population and fall well within the limits set by interna tional TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
ENVIRONMENT 
 
58 
 . standards. TIM and the entire telecommunications sector pay careful attention to the issue by proactively monitoring all 
possible developments and always acting in compliance with the legislation.  
 
In Brazil  the non-ionizing radiation emitted by the radio base statio ns of TIM Participações are fully within the parameters 
dictated by the World Health Organization and adopted by th e Agência Nacional de Telecomunicações (ANATEL). All the 
radio base stations of TIM Participações ha ve a license to operate issued by ANATEL. 
 [GRI 307-1]
 On the issue of Compliance, the Group provides ev eryone with a single channel through which to submit 
requests for clarification or reports of presumed violation of environmental legislation, with the maximum guarantee of 
confidentiality. The system assigns each report submitted a unique identification code, which enables the reporter to 
check the processing status in complete anonymity1.  
As active and responsible members of the community, the Group’s companies are commi tted to observing and ensuring 
the observance of the laws in force in the countries in which they operate and adopt the organizational tools needed to prevent the violation of legal provisions.  During 2019, no significant financial penalties were imposed on  TIM in Italy for violations of environmental legislation in 
the areas in which they perform their activities. This was also the case in the previous two years. In Brazil  during 2019 the Secretaria Mu nicipal de Ambiente e Sust entabilidade - SEMAS fined TIM 50 thousand reais
2 for 
not having the equipment installation licenses.  
TIM initiatives for the environment  
The concrete actions implemented by TIM in order to limit the impact of the company's activities on the environment are 
outlined below. 
Energy efficiency improvement work 
TIM is intensifying its activities in the field of energy effi ciency, implementing a series of major energy efficiency measures  
that have led to savings of 123 GWh over the last thre e years (this is the cumulative value for the period).  
In addition, the Group's monitoring platform was expanded ov er the course of 2019, in order to target management 
interventions on all building types in a more effective manner.  Sensors have been installed on 51 of the locations that use the most energy, monitoring around 100 GWh. There are plans to extend monitoring to another 300 sites in 2020 (including all Data Centers, all POPs, all ISO 50001-certified site s, and all sites targeted by 2020 energy efficiency projects ), 
thus increasing the figure to 300 GWh. The target for 2020 is to monitor at least 50% of total consumption. 
During 2019, TIM identified the most suit able levers for exploiting the energy potential of the company.  
 
Renewable energy  
An increase in the quantity of energy derived from renewable sources, both through the purchase of Guarantees of Origin 
(covering around 21.4% of the total energy purchased in Italy) and through the construction of new photovoltaic plants, 
with an installed power of around 10 MWp, and with expected energy production levels of 3 GWh in 2020 and around 13 
GWh/year at full capacity. In the field of distributed generation, TIM plans significant development of renewable source 
plants in the course of 2020 and will also launch testing of new sources for self-production at high-consumption sites. For 
every 10 GWh of solar energy produced, a saving of 1M€ is estimated. Specifically, the plans include: 
 the installation of a photovoltaic system at the Acilia site during 2020 (baseline consumption: 8 GWh); the project is 
currently under development; 
 the construction of photovoltaic systems in 100 locations (number to be confirmed following detailed checks at local 
level) in the area of exchanges/data ce nters (baseline consumption: 100 GWh/y).  
 
                                                                  
1Full information about this is ava ilable by clicking on this link: https://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/about-us/governance-
system/Whistleblowing.html  
2 Pecuniary sanctions of an amount exc eeding 500,000 euros are considered significant for the Group in Italy; For its own accoun ting purposes, 
Brazil applies an amount of 500,000 reais, which is equal to  110,725 euros at the exchange rate on December 31, 2019. TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
59 
  
Energy efficiency measures at industrial and/or mixed -use sites  
The initiatives launch ed in 2018 for industrial sites, offices and data centers have been completed. The details are as 
follows:  
 
Fixed Network area    
• Exchanges re -engineering project. Phase 2 of the project was completed, with energy efficiency measures introduced 
at 35 sites (baseline consumption: 34 GWh/y) with an expected saving of 10%, which equates to an estimated saving 
of approximately 3.4 GWh wh en fully operational (2020). There are plans to roll out this project to a further 40 
locations in 2020 (baseline consumption: 40 GWh), with the application of machine learning algorithms;  
• Introduction of energy efficiency measures in power stations. Work has been completed at 13 sites (baseline 
consumption: 6 GWh/y), with an expected saving of 10%, which equates to 0.6 GWh (2020). There are plans to roll 
out this project at a further 40 locations in 2020 (baseline consumption: 30 GWh), with an expected sav ing of 10%, 
which equates to 3 GWh (fully operational in 2021).   
 
Offices  
• The Building Energy Management System project (BEMS). The assessment process has been launched for the 
introduction of energy efficiency measures at 6 office sites (baseline consum ption: 20 GWh), with an expected saving 
of 11%, which equates to 2 GWh (2020). There are plans to roll out this project at a further 6 locations in 2020 (baseline 
consumption: 60 GWh), with an expected saving of 12%, which equates to 7.2 GWh /y (2021) when fully operational. 
Machine learning algorithms will also be applied .   
 
IT 
• Introduction of energy efficiency measures in the Oriolo Romano data center in Rome. The activities designed to 
improve the energy efficiency of the data center are nearing completi on, thanks to a plant checking process that 
includes adaptive systems (machine learning); these measures will achieve a saving of 22% of the baseline 
consumption expected for 2020, which equates to around 7 GWh. A similar project will be rolled out at the Cesano 
Maderno data center in 2020 (baseline consumption: 23 GWh), with an expected saving of 12% (2.7 GWh, fully 
operational in 2021)  
• The Data Center Transformation project - The Data Center Transformation project has been launched, which involves 
a proc ess of compaction across 16 data centers and service centers, with a view to improving energy efficiency across 
this entire area of operation.  
 
 
Trigeneration  
Distributed generation for self -consumption was increased through the optimization of existing p lants and the 
construction of 6 new trigeneration plants in order to serve the most energy -intensive sites (Rozzano, Bologna, Pomezia, 
Rome Tor Pagnotta, Rome Oriolo Romano). These are expected to be fully operational from February 2021 and will enable 
an increase in self -produced energy estimated at 75 GW of electricity, which equates to 85.5 GWh - a figure which also 
takes into account the lower energy withdrawals from the grid as a result of the energy not consumed by refrigeration 
units. As such, TIM cu rrently operates 30 trigeneration plants. The older plants were subject to a process of optimization 
over the course of 2019. Specifically, this operation saw the replacement of absorbers in 3 large plants (Padua, Rozzano 
and Bologna), with an estimated ef ficiency recovery of around 10 GWh in 2020 compared to the total for 2019.  
In addition to the internal awareness campaigns regarding energy savings already mentioned at the beginning of this 
section, other Group -wide initiatives include those regarding integrated decommissioning and network simplification ; in 
this area, plans to compact the network (PSTN, ATM DSLAM, IP DSLAM, SuperSGU) and to rationalize and simplify the 
network platforms (Core Voice platforms, transport networks, data networks) are ong oing, with a total saving of more 
than 50 GWh achieved in 2019.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
60 
 Reducing staff travel  
TIM is committed to finding solutions to 
reduce staff travel and movement. In 
addition to proposed smart  working days, 
TIM provides its employees with “VAI On 
Line” and Smart On Line (launched in 2017) 
audio and video conferencing services, for 
both its own employees and for those of 
Group companies. The use of these services 
increased by 69% in 2019 compare d to 
2018.  Details as follows:  
• VAI On Line: 21,995 video conferences held by TIM and other Group companies;   
• VAI On Line: 56,817 audio conferences held by TIM and other Group companies;  
• Smart On Line: 193,686 audio/video conferences held by TIM.  
IoT and e nvironmental research  
As a further demonstration of its commitment to the environment, every year TIM invests in research into innovative 
solutions for limiting environmental impact by limiting the consumption of natural resources and energy. These activit ies 
are detailed in the following paragraphs.  
TIM has also had many patents granted in this area. TIM has begun numerous ICT research projects in the area of the 
Internet of Things (IoT), applied to the world of Smart Cities and of positive environmental i mpact.  
Smart grid. IoT application for the management of electrical networks in terms of distributed generation and remote 
control. Continuing sharing telecommunication and power distribution network infrastructure with a view to cutting costs 
and reducin g their environmental impact.  
Smart water. IoT application for managing water distribution networks through the identification of hidden water leaks. 
To search for leaks and optimize distribution costs, TIM is also experimenting with multi -utility smart m etering solutions 
(applications for real time usage monitoring), which cover water, gas and, if necessary, also electricity, based on 
widespread networks like IoT Narrowband1. 
Smart waste. Efficient management of the waste cycle for increasing sorted colle ction and reducing illegal dumping. The 
fill levels of the various recycling centers are measured in real time and vehicles sent out to empty them only when 
necessary. Result: time and expense are minimized and roadside bins overflowing with municipal rubb ish are avoided.  
Other projects. In the field of eco -sustainability, the REPLICATE (Firenze Smart City) and MONICA (Torino Smart City) 
projects are particularly significant.  
The REPLICATE2  project focuses on smart energy, smart mobility and smart waste solutions and the development of IoT 
platforms for managing the distribution of water and waste management in collaboration and partnership with the 
municipality of Florence. It was launched in 2016 and will last for five years.  
The MONICA3  project is focused on urban noise pollution and safety in public life. TIM contributed to the “Torino Smart 
City” project known as SMILE4 focusing on the theme of life & health. Based on input from the SM ILE project, the 
Municipality of Turin has drawn up a master plan for Torino Smart City. TIM has signed a Memorandum of Understanding 
with the Municipality which provides for the use of 5G technologies to develop sustainable smart city services. The projec t, 
which began in July 2017, will be completed by mid -2020.  
 
Consumer Products: TIM eco -friendly  
In order to improve the environmental efficiency of products offered to customers, attention has to be paid to their energy 
aspects to optimist consumption wh ile meeting the needs of the services delivered and applying “design for environment” 
                                                                 
1This solution is based on a new radio interface which can be used either on a portion of the LTE signal band (or on the band separating the 
bands), or independently in portions of the spectrum made available by the release of frequencies.  
2  REnaissance o f PLaces with Innovative Citizenship And TEchnologies; part of the European Horizon 2020 program.  
3 Management Of Networked IoT Wearables – Very Large Scale Demonstration of Cultural Societal Applications; part of the European Horizon 
2020 program.  
4 SMart  mobILity at the European land borders; part of the European Horizon 2020 program.  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
61 
 rules that reduce their environmental impact, particularly during the production phase and the end -of-life management 
of equipment. It is the responsibility of the ICT se ctor, and therefore also of TIM, to consider these aspects, focusing on 
research and development to create products with a low environmental impact throughout the entire life cycle.  
At the end of the 1990s, TIM launched a series of internal research and de velopment activities to finalist the building of 
terminals with a reduced environmental impact. The Telecom Italia Green logo, renamed TIM eco -friendly in 2015, was 
created to identify both TIM’s environmental protection initiatives and projects and eco -friendly products.  
For each product and initiative with this logo, information is provided about the features and specific solutions adopted 
to demonstrate their eco -friendliness and/or environmental benefit. In the case of products, this information appears  in 
the environmental statement, drawn up in accordance with the UNI EN ISO 14021 standard, as well as in the sustainability 
section of the telecomitalia.com website, where information can also be found about the “eco -friendly” features of 
initiatives and projects.  
The TIM eco -friendly range includes dedicated products for businesses and consumers developed in cooperation with 
suppliers. The electricity savings also translate into an equivalent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The entire TIM 
eco-frien dly range of products are designed using eco -design criteria. The casing and packaging are made using uniform, 
recycled and/or recyclable materials. In 2019 TIM Gamepad Bluetooth was launched, part of the eco -friendly line with 
excellent results in environ mental tests and an appropriate environmental declaration1.  
 
 
TIM’s environmental performance  
Energy and natural resources consumption  
[GRI 302 -1], [GRI 302 -2], [GRI 302 -4] The Group’s energy consumption is presented broken -down into consumption for 
heating, transport and purchased and produced electricity.  
 
Heating  
The data in the table shows a significant reduction in 2019 compared to 2018 and 2017 mainly attributable to r eal estate 
rationalization and energy efficiency. In Brazil , given the particular climate conditions throughout the year, indoor heating 
is not used. Compared to 2018, consumption of energy for heating decreased in 2019 by 34,647,936 MJ.  
 
 
  Group  Domesti c Brazil  
Energy generated by heating oil  MJ 16,991,236  100%  0% 
Energy generated by methane  MJ 278,862,646  100%  0% 
Total energy for heating  MJ 295,853,882  100%  0% 
2019 v. 2018   (10)%  (10)%  NC 
2019 v. 2017   (21)%  (21)%  NC 
 
 
 
                                                                 
1 https:/ /www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/sustainability/actions -dialogue/environment/sustainable -products -services/products/TIM -Game -Pad-
Bluetooth.html  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
62 
  
 
 
 
Transport  
The data shown here refers to all the Group’s vehicles (industrial, commercial, used by senior managers/middle 
managers/sales people), both owned and hired. The vehicles, consumption and mileage of vehicles owned or in use by 
the sales force of TIM Partici pações have been included only where usage is significant and continuous. In general, energy 
consumption for transport is decreasing.  
 
   
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
Energy from unleaded petrol   MJ 63,690,302  54%  46%  
Energy from diesel fuel   MJ 532,2 66,842  100%  0% 
Energy from LPG   MJ 13,755  100%  0% 
Total energy for transport*   MJ 595,970,899  95%  5% 
2019 v. 2018    (6)%  (6)%  2% 
2019 v. 2017    (7)%  (8)%  12%  
Total number of vehicles    No. 15,188  95%  5% 
2019 v. 2018   (1)%  (2)%  19%  
2019 v. 2017    (5)%  (5)%  20%  
Total distance travelled  km 250,537,979  96%  4% 
2019 v. 2018   (6)%  (6)%  8% 
2019 v. 2017    (3)%  (3)%  14%  
* Represents conversion into megajoules of the consumption of unleaded petrol, diesel and LPG (expressed in liters) . 
 
In general, energy consumption due to transport decreased thanks to a rationalization of the fleet and restrains on travel.  
 376,152,826
330,501,818
295,853,882
2017 2018 2019
YearsTrend over the last three years 
Energy consumption from fuels for heating (MJ) TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
63 
  
 
 
 
 
Electricity procured and produced  
Consumption figures for electricity used to operate telecommunications and civil/industrial technological plants. Thanks 
to energy efficiency measures implemented in 2019, overall electricity consumption has fallen. The energy efficiency of 
TIM was also re cognized through the awarding of Energy Efficiency Certificates (EEC, also known as White Certificates): 
in 2019 an additional 4,868 white certificates were allocated and sold with sales revenues of approximately 1.3 million 
euros in 2019. Guarantees of or igin covering 383 GWh were also purchased in 2019. The share of energy from renewable 
sources has increased in Brazil  thanks to purchase agreements and the rise in self -production from renewable sources.  
 
 
 
 
 Group  Domestic  Brazil  
Electricity from mixed sources  kWh   
1,754,816,443  
(GJ 6,317,339.195)  81%  19%  
2019 v. 2018   (26)%  (22)%  (42)%  
2019 v. 2017*   (31)%  (23)%  (53)%  
Electricity from renewable sources**  kWh   
762,963,705  
(GJ 2,746,669.338)  50%  50%  
2019 v. 2018   244%  587%  129%  
2019 v. 2017    1168%  573%  11430%  
Total electricity consumption  kWh   
2,517,780,148  
(GJ 9,064,008.533)  71% 29%  
2019 v. 2018   (3)%  (3)%  (4)%  
2019 v. 2017   (4)%  (5)%  (1)%  
* The comparison was made with 2017 data, which was updated from that reported in the 2017 Sustainability Report, following a further revision 
after its publication. The updated 2017 data refers to the total electricity purchased from mixed sources by BU Domestic in 2 017, equal to 
1,832,667,761 kWh and to the cogeneration of electricity in 2017, equal to 102,9 96,893 kWh.  
** Including the purchase of Guarantees of Origin.  
 
 
 642,288,502
630,757,319
595,970,899
2017 2018 2019Last 3 years trend
Total energy for transports [MJ]TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
64 
  
Electricity consumption over the last 3 years and share of renewable energy  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
[GRI 302 -3] The Group measures its energy efficiency by using an eco -efficiency indicator that establishes a relationship 
between the service offered to the customer (bits transmitted) and the company’s impact on the environment (joules of 
energy consumed). The facto rs taken into consideration are the amounts of data and voice traffic of the fixed and mobile 
networks, and energy consumption for industrial purposes (transmission and climate control in exchanges), civil purposes 
(electricity for office use, air conditio ning and office heating) and vehicles. The  graphs below show the level of the eco -
efficiency indicator over the past three years for the Domestic and Brazil BUs.  
 
 
 
In 2019, the value of the indicator calculated for the Domestic BU was 13.531 bit/joule, up 21.67% compared to 20181 and 
52.43% compared to 2017. This is the result of a substantial increase in data traffic, which, thanks to the efficiency of the  
network, has not led to a corresponding increase in electricity consumption. The commitment contin ues with the 
establishment for 2020 of a  target  of 14,200 bit/Joule (see 2019 objectives at the end of this Chapter), equal to an increase 
of 4.94% on the figure for 2019.  
The eco -efficiency index calculated for Brazil shows a  continuous improvement  too: in 2019 it grew significantly by 58% 
compared to 2018 and by over 438% compared to 2017. The values of the indicators calculated respectively for Italy and 
Brazil are not directly comparable because the two organizations are very different in operational  and environmental 
terms: e.g. in Brazil the traffic is primarily mobile and, as previously mentioned, no heating fuels are used in view of the 
particular climate conditions.  
 
 
                                                                 
1  The comparison was made with 2017 data updated from that reported in the last Sustainability Report, following a further revi sion after its 
publication. The updated 2017 figure for the Domestic BU eco -efficiency indicator is 8,877 bit/joule.  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
65 
 Water consumption  
[GRI 303 -1] The downward trend in water consumption is conti nuing thanks to targeted management and awareness 
actions.  
 
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
Consumption of water drawn from 
artesian wells  m3 6,209  0% 100%  
Consumption of water provided by 
water supply companies  m3 1,739,978  96%  4% 
Consumption of water drawn from other 
sources  m3 9,695  0% 100%  
Total water consumption  m3 1,755,882  95%  5% 
2019 v. 2018   (16)%  (15)%  (26)%  
2019 v. 2017   (22)%  (21)%  (38)%  
 
 
 
 
Paper for office and commercial purposes  
Purchases of paper for office and commercial use (telephone bills) continue to be directed at product types that meet the 
highest environmental standards based on the responsible management of forests according to the Forest Stewardship 
Council (FSC) requirements1. 
 
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
Non-recycled and non-certified paper 
purchased for office use  kg 2,047  100%  0% 
Recycled paper purchased for office use  kg 1,733  100%  0% 
FSC certified paper purchase for office use  kg 252,549  85%  15%  
Total paper purchased for office use  kg 256,329  85%  15%  
2019 v. 2018*   36%  30%  87%  
2019 v. 2017   31%  25%  87%  
Total paper purchased for commercial use  kg 2,322,984  77% 23%  
2019 v. 2018   (6)%  6% (32)%  
                                                                 
1  see fsc.o rg 2,249,4352,087,711
1,755,882
2017 2018 2019Last 3 years trend
Water consumption [m3]TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
66 
 2019 v. 2017   3% 23%  (33)%  
* The comparison was made with 2017 data, which was updated from that reported in the last Sustainability Report, following a f urther revision 
after its publication. The updated 2017 figure is equal to 195,409 kg of paper.  
 
 
 
 2,449,9812,657,962
2,579,313
2017 2018 2019Last 3 years trend
Paper consumption [kg]TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
67 
 Atmospheric emissions  
[GRI 305-1] [GRI 305 -2] [GRI 305 -3] [GRI 305 -5] [GRI 305 -6] The Group’s greenhouse gas emissions consist almost 
exclusively of carbon dioxide generated by fossil fuels for heating, transport, power generation and the purchase of 
electricity from third parties. In addition to these, fugitive emissions of hydro chlorofluorocarbons, hydro fluorocarbons 
(HCFCs and HFCs) and other gases from air conditioning and fire prevention systems are also considered and converted 
into kg of CO 2 equivalent (see table Emissions o f ozone depleting gases in this section).  
For atmospheric emissions as well, use is made of the GHG Protocol approach, distinguishing between direct or Scope  1 
emissions (use of fossil fuels for transport, heating, power generation and fugitive ozone deple ting emissions), indirect or 
Scope  2 emissions (purchase of electricity for industrial and civil use) and other indirect or Scope  3 emissions. Nitrogen 
oxides (NOx) and sulphur oxides (SOx) emissions [GRI 305 -7] are negligible in Group emissions.  
The follo wing table shows market based Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.  
 
 
 
 [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 305]  The table below shows the Group's Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.  
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
CO 2 emissions from transport*  kg 43,833,718  95%  5% 
CO 2 emissions from heating*  kg 16,850,916  100%  0% 
Emissions of CO 2 equivalents for ozone 
depleting gases**  kg 15,186,313  60%  40%  
CO 2 emissions from electricity generation 
by cogeneration*  kg 68,889,975  100%  0% 
CO 2 emissions from electricity generation 
using diesel*^  kg 9,067,693 92%  8% 
Total direct emissions of CO 2 – ex Scope1 
GRI**  kg 153,828,615  94%  6% 
2019 v. 2018   (7)%  1% (60)%  
2019 v. 2017   5% 5% 8% 
CO 2 emissions from purchases of 
electricity generated from mixed 
source***  kg 641,540,530  96%  4% 
Total indirect emissions of CO 2 - ex Scope2 
- market based  kg 641,540,530  96%  4% 
2019 v. 2018   (6)%  (4)%  (41)%  
2019 v. 2017^^   (12)%  (7)%  (62)%  
Total indirect  and direct emissions of CO 2 
- ex Scope 1 + 2 - market based  kg 795,369,145  96%  4% 
2019 v. 2018   (7)%  (3)%  (47)%  
2019 v. 2017^^   (9)%  (5)%  (54)%  
 
* The emission factors used in 2019 are the ones published by ISPRA (I stituto  Superiore per la Protezione  e la Ricerca Ambientale) in 2019, possibly 
supplemented with DEFRA (Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) data. The WRI/GHG Protrocol proposed the factors  used in 
previous years.  
** The value of CO 2 equivalent emissions of hydrochlorofluoroc arbons (HCFC), hydrofluorocarbons (HFC) and other refrigerant gases is calculated 
with reference to the respective global warming potentials (GWP - Global Warming Potential) shown in the specific table. the index is based on 
a relative scale that compares the gas considered with an equal mass of carbon dioxide with a GWP of 1.  
***A residual mix value of 483 grams of  CO 2 per kWh (AIB, 2018) was used to calculate emissions linked to the consumption of electricity from 
mixed sources purchased on the Italian market (Scope 2 market based). For previous years, the coefficient published by WRI/GHG Protocol (2009) 
calculated based on the national mix was used. For Brazil, the average grid factors for 2017, 2018 and 2019 calculated and pu blished by the local 
Minist ry of Science, Technology, Innovation and Communication were used. They amounted to approximately 92.7, 74 and 75 grams of CO 2/kWh 
respectively.  
^ The comparison was made with methane consumption data from 2017, which was updated from that reported in the 2017 Sustainability Report 
as it was received after its publication. The updated 2017 figure is equal to 27,860,685 m3 of methane for cogeneration, whos e related 2017 
emissions amount to 54,693,813 kg of CO 2. 
^^ The comparison was made with updated 2017 da ta following a review. The updated 2017 figure is equal to 729,941,521 kg of CO 2 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
68 
 The following table instead illustrates the location  based CO 2 emissions from electricity purchased.  
 
Scope 2 - Location Based  
 2019  2018  2017 2019/2018  2019/2017  
 
      
BU Domestic  kg 524,571,439 543,606,151 561,128,254 -4% -7% 
Brazil  kg 35,058,014 52,379,789 66,591,884 -33%  -47%  
Group kg 559,629,453 595,985,941 627,720,139 -6% -11% 
 
 
 
The three -year performance of direct and indirect emissions shows a positive trend thanks to policies for limiting 
consumption, energy efficiency plans and the Group's investment in energy from renewable sources.  
 
 
 
 
 
Ozone depleting gases emissions 2019 - 
Brazil       
Gases  Dispersed  quantity [kg]  ODP  CFC 11 eq. [t]  GWP (100 yrs)  CO 2Emissions [kgCO2e]  Type     
     
HCFC -22/R22  1,607.7  0.055  0.08842  1,810  2,909,855.6  HCFC  
HFC-134a  476.5  0 0.00000  1,430  681,366.4  HFC 
R407C  534.1  0 0.00000  1,774  947,475.4  HFC 
R410A  603.4  0 0.00000  2,088  1,259,931.5  HFC 
HCFC -141b  65.6 0,11 0.00722  725 47,560.0  HCFC  
HCFC -142b  10.0 0,065  0.00065  2,310  23,100.0  HCFC  
HFE-143a  54.4 0 0.00000  756 41,126.4  HFE 
R407A  52.0 0 0.00000  2,107  109,564.0  HFC        
Total HFC  1,666.0    0.00000    2,998,337.3   
Total HCFC  1,683.3    0.09629    2,980,515.6   
Total other gases  54.4   0.00000    41,126.4   
Total  3,403.6    0.09629    6,019,979.2   
 
 
      875,892,103
851,099,114
795,369,145
2017 2018 2019Direct and indirect emissions over the last three years 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (kg CO2e)TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
69 
 Ozone depleting gases emissions 2019 – 
BU Domestic   
Gases  Dispersed quantity [kg]  ODP  CFC 11 eq. [t]  GWP (100 yrs)  CO 2Emissions [kgCO2e]  Type     
     
R134A  265 0 0 1,430  378,950  HFC 
R407C  1,854.91  0 0 1,774  3,290,610  HFC 
R410A  771.93  0 0 2,088  1,611,790  HFC 
R417A  1051.32  0 0 2,346  2,466,397  HFC 
R422D  286.2  0 0 2,729  781,040  HFC 
R427A  5 0 0 2,138  10,690  HFC 
R22 346 0.055  0.01903  1,810  626,857  HCFC         
Total  HFC 4,234    0   8,539,477   
Total HCFC  346   0.01903    626,857   
Total other gases  0   0   0  
Total  4,580.69    0.01903    9,166,334   
 
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 305] The table shows some categories of Group's Scope  3 emissions.  
 
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
CO 2 emissions from work -home 
commuting*  kg 54,014,018 91%  9% 
CO 2 emissions from business  travels ** kg 5,330,86 7 55%  45%  
Total indirect emissions of CO 2 – under 
Scope 3 GRI  kg 59,344,885 88%  12%  
2019 v. 2018   (10) (12) 4 
2019 v. 2017   (13) (16) 13 
*    In determining the impact of home -work commuting, reference is made to statistical data produced on the company’s personnel.  
** Emissions due to air travel were calculated by the study and research center of American Express (the Travel Agency used b y TIM) supported 
by DEFRA (Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs of the United Kingdom) based on the number of journeys  actually made, 
subdivided by the duration of each individual journey (short, medium or long).  
 
[GRI 305 -4] TIM also measures the “ Carbon Intensity ” of its Domestic1 BU by using an indicator that establishes a 
relationship between the company’s direct and 
indirect operational CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 
Scope 2), measured in kg and generated by 
Company's activities), with the service offered to the 
customers (Tbits tra nsmitted).  
The factors taken into consideration are the amount 
of data and voice traffic of the fixed/mobile network 
and direct emissions produced by using fossil fuels 
for heating, vehicles and self -production of 
electrical energy together with indirect emissions 
due to purchase and consumption of electrical 
energy from grid.  
In 2019 the value of the indicator fell by more than 17% compared to 201 8 and by more than 33% compared to 20172. 
The traffic transmitted increased by more than 9% compared to 2018 a nd by 39% compared to 2017.  
                                                                 
1 The operations of Persidera and the Olivetti Group are not included . 
2The comparison was made with 2017 data updated from that reported in the last Sustainability Report, following a further revi sion after its 
publication. The updated 2017 figure for the carbon intensity indicator is equal to 10.6 kg of CO2/Tbit.  
 
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
70 
 Waste  
[GRI 306 -2] The data shown in the table refer to the quantity of waste consigned1 and recorded by law2. 
    
  Group  Domestic  Brazil  
Hazardous waste  kg 2,209,309  75% 25%  
Non-hazardous waste  kg 6,585,661  93%  7% 
Total waste consigned*  kg 8,794,970  88%  12%  
2019 v. 2018   (36)%  (39)%  15%  
2019 v. 2017   (24)%  (31)%  180%  
Waste sent for recycling or recovery  kg 8,426,811  92%  8% 
% Waste sent for recycling or recovery   96%  100%  66%  
* The data does not include the Domestic BU telephone poles because these are not disposed of as ordinary waste but under the framework 
agreement signed in 2003 with the Ministry of the Environment and Land Protection, the Ministry of Production Activities and the production and 
recovery companie s, subject to the favorable opinion of the conference of State -Regions -Autonomous Provinces. In 2019, TIM decommissioned 
162,303 poles weighing a total of 12,984 tons.  
 
 
The data relating to waste shows a variable trend over time in relation to quantity an d type of waste. The most significant 
figure is that of the ratio of waste produced and that sent for recycling/recovery, which remains at a high level. ICT can 
accelerate the obsolescence of products and require the resulting technological waste to be man aged. TIM has entered 
into contracts with companies specialised in handling used, faulty and end -of-life products, with the aim of reclaiming 
components and raw materials and at the same time obtaining tangible economic benefits deriving from their recover y. 
In 2019 the various management activities allowed logistics and network products (31,310 pieces) to be refurbished , while 
components and raw materials (600,096 kg in total, almost exclusively fixed telephony parts) were recycled. In 2019, TIM 
re-sold a total of 15,000 used mobile telephony items.  
 
  
                                                                 
1 “Waste consigned” means waste delivered to carriers for recycling or reclamation or disposal.  
2 Slight variations compared to the situation on December 31 may occur until the following March  30, because the source of the data is the records 
of waste loaded and unloaded, which are consolidated once the actual weight at destination has been verified; The information  is supplied to the 
producer of the waste within 3 months of consignment, which is the reason for the potential variations in the data. In this regard, ascertained 
waste production for 2018 was lower ( -10.12%) than stated in the last Report. However, this increase was not taken into account in the 2019 on 
2018 comparison of waste prod uced.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
ENVIRONMENT  
 
71 
 2019 Results. 2020 and multi -annual targets  
 
 
Domestic BU – Environment  
 
Area of  
reference  Indicator  Unit of 
measurement  Actual 
figure  
2019  Target  
2019  Target  
Status  Target  
2020  Target  
2021  Target  
2022  
THE 
ENVIRONMENT  
ENERGY  Total reduction of 
electricity 
consumption **  
 % 3 4* ● 4 6 7 
THE 
ENVIRONMENT  
ENERGY  Percentage of 
renewable energy out 
of total energy 
purchased and 
produced ** % 21 New target  26 31 36 
THE 
ENVIRONMENT  
ENERGY  Eco-efficiency 
indicator  bit/joule  13,531 13,300  ● 14,200  15,400  17,400  
THE 
ENVIRONMENT  
ATMOSPHERIC  
EMISSIONS  Reduction of CO 2 
emissions from the 
purchase and 
production of 
electricity  
(base year 2019) ** % Emissions 
from 
purchased 
electricity:  
693 Mt Target changed: base 
year modified  11 24 33 
 *The electricity consumption target of 1 ,785 GWh shown in the 2018 Sustainability Report corresponds to a reduction of 4% compared to total 
electricity consumption compared to 2018.  
** The 2020 -2022 targets represent percentage reductions compared to total consumption in 2019.  
 
 
 
TIM Brasil – Environment  
 
Area of 
reference  Indicator  Unit of 
measurement  Actual figure 
2019  Target  
2020  
THE 
ENVIRONMENT  
WATER  Reduction of water consumption for civil use  % 3 1 
THE 
ENVIRONMENT  
WASTE  Collection of mobile phones, batteries and other accessories for 
recycling  Tons  0.615  1.5 
THE 
ENVIRONMENT  
WASTE  Relationship between recycled waste and total waste generated 
in offices  % 12 13 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
72 
 THE VALUE CHAIN  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
73 
 Research and development  
In Italy  
 [GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  Innovation - understood as the research and development of innovative 
technologies and services, processes and business models - plays a key role in the Group's ability to keep on top of the 
profound transformations that are coming about as a result of IC T1, as well as being a necessary and driving force in this 
evolution with regard to its customers and the country -specific system, helping to overcome the socio -cultural barriers 
that limit the possibilities of participating in the information society and enjoying the benefits that come with it.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  TIM has always considered innovation to be a strategic asset and takes 
great care in managing the individual aspects thereof, including its strategic role, responsibility , objectives and policy.  
With regards to the role itself, in 2019, both technological and business -related innovation once again played a key role 
in responding to the changing technological, market and competitive environment. This being the case, the Gro up has 
pursued several avenues of development:  
• continuing the efforts it initiated in 2016 to strengthen internal lines of innovation, focusing the activities of its 
laboratories and research groups on the fundamental aspects of the evolution of fixed and mobile networks to 5G2 
and ultra -broadband standards based on service platforms and new operating systems;  
• selecting, accelerating and co -creating innovative ideas, products and services from the world of start -ups3 and small 
and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs), in keeping with emerging innovative trends and those of interest to TIM, with 
a view to improving the commercial offering and internal processes and encouraging the growth of the Italian start -
up ecosystem th rough the TIM corporate accelerator. TIM WCAP (working capital) leverages the principles of ‘Open 
Innovation’ and the five territorial hubs4 (Milan, Bologna, Rome, Naples and Catania) in order to promote a certain 
contamination that not only concerns the w orld of start -ups but also extends to global ICT partners (such as CISCO) 
and the main Italian universities (such as Federico II in Naples, where the Naples hub has been created);  
• catalyzing the capacity for innovation on the part of start -ups through TIM WCAP's acceleration programme and 
venture capital (equity) investments on the part of TIM Ventures - TIM's corporate venture capital5. Indeed, TIM WCAP 
launched a ‘call for start -ups’6 and two ‘calls for partners’ in 2018 and held several hackathon7 and co ntamination 
initiatives at its regional hubs in 2019;  
• implementing initiatives that enable the growth of co -creation ecosystems such as the IoT (Internet of Things) Open 
Lab - a laboratory dedicated to the development of IoT solutions based on technologies  that are of key importance 
to the telco operator from an open innovation perspective.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  Innovation management is overseen, through various missions , by the 
Technology Architectures & Innovation and engineering fun ctions and involves various internal and external stakeholders:  
• other areas of the company that might be involved in these issues from time to time, both as internal clients with 
regard to  the innovation output solution and as centers of expertise with regard to the issue in question;  
• partners, both traditional and digital, in the joint go2market8 digital services initiative;  
• research centers and universities, for the purposes of collabora tions and joint projects. [GRI 203 -1] In 2019, a number 
of research contracts were signed with nine Italian universities amounting to a total value of 1.3 million euros (further 
information is provided later in this paragraph);  
                                                                 
1Information and Communication Technology.  
2  Acronym for fifth generation mobile technology and standards.  
3 New companies demonstrating high levels of innovation.  
4 Center of an activity, region or network.  
5 TIM Ventures is the company belonging to the TIM Group that invests in corporate venture capital.  
6 Invitation to participate in new initiatives.  
7 The word ‘hackathon’ is a combination of the words ‘hacking’ and ‘marathon’.  During a hackathon, which las ts for a limited period of time 
(ranging from a few hours to a few days), participants must create a usable software program, often based on a certain theme (e.g. an app for 
smartphones).  
8 The strategy of an organization that uses both internal and extern al resources (e.g. sales force) can be defined with a view to making its 
unique value proposition available to customers and gaining a competitive advantage.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
74 
 • on an international level, a  wide range of standardization bodies (including the ETSI 1, the ITU 2, the CENELEC 3 and 
3GPP 4, among others), associations (the most notable of which include the GSMA 5 and the NGMN 6), alliances (such 
as oneM2M 7 and BBF 8) and telco open communities (such as the ONF 9 and CORD 10), which play a key role in the 
evolution of the TLC industry/sector with regard to networks, platforms and services, in which TIM is involved through 
partnerships 11 with the main stakeholders in the sector. In 2019 in particular, TIM conf irmed its interest in joining the 
main standardization bodies and associations with 29 registrations, two more than in 2018, representing a total 
commitment of around a million euros. The two new international bodies of which TIM has become a part are stro ngly 
linked to the digital transformation process that the company is undertaking with regard to 5G, these being the 5GAA 
(5G Automotive Association), which aims to accelerate and promote the industrialisation of connected mobility 
services, and the O -RAN 12 Alliance (Open RAN Alliance) - an initiative involving the world's leading carriers and aimed 
at promoting greater openness and programmability of radio access systems.  
• on a national level, collaborative relationships have been established with various m inistries (including the Ministry of 
Economic Development and the Ministry of Education, University and Research), the European Union and public 
bodies (such as the Italian National Research Council (CNR) and local authorities) for the purposes of implemen ting 
projects funded through participation in calls for tenders and partnership initiatives. The year 2019 notably saw TIM 
contribute to the design proposal and creation of production lines based on the new Industry 4.0 technology in the 
framework of the C ompetence Industry Manufacturing 4.0 (CIM 4.0) initiative introduced at the end of 2018 with a 
view to promoting the transfer of technological skills and innovation in production processes, products and business 
models.  
TIM has developed a joint innovation  and shared success pathway in conjunction with Huawei and Cisco, as well as signing 
a strategic agreement with Microsoft for the development of artificial intelligence, in addition to the various collaboration s 
already in place between the two companies b oth in Italy and Brazil. Artificial intelligence, with the help of Data Analytics 
and Big Data Advanced Analytics13, is now an essential lever in digital transformation. The collaboration with Microsoft 
will lead to the development of innovative tools for c ustomizing products and services and enriching the TIM offering.  
TIM’s technological evolution is based on the CTO Technology Strategy, which outlines technological strategy in terms of 
guidelines, specific technologies and roadmaps for implementation over a period of several years. The three -year 
technology plan is the  Group’s reference document and includes plans for the technological evolution of its various 
subsidiaries. The plan identifies the main exogenous factors that might influence company strategies (regulation, 
standards, suppliers and other operators in the market) and defines both the reference technological architecture and 
the evolution of specific technologies, as well as the company structures involved and the corresponding roadmaps for 
deployment or assessment. Qualitative and/or quantitative objectives  correspond to a period of several years and are 
broken down on an annual basis and defined in a way that means they can be objectively measured in compliance with 
                                                                 
1 European Telecommunications Standard Institute.  
2 International Telecommunication Union.  
3 Europ ean Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization.  
4 3rd Generation Partnership Project.  
5 GSM Association.  
6 Next Generation Mobile Networks.  
7 oneM2M aims to  develop technical specifications that meet the need for a common M2M (machine to machine, i.e.  technologies and services 
that allow for the automatic transfer of information with little or no human interaction) service level that can be easily in corporated into various 
hardware and software solutions and that can be relied upon to connect the myria d of devices out in the field with M2M application servers 
around the world.  
8 The Broadband Forum focuses on developing the standards that shape current and future cable & wireless, transport, border and  core networks 
to support domestic, business and con verged broadband services with the aim of unlocking new markets using new technologies and standards 
for advanced broadband networks.  
9 The Open Led Consortium, which transforms technical networks into agile platforms for service delivery. 
10 The CORD (Cent ral Office Re -architected as a Datacenter) platform uses SND, NFV and Cloud technologies to create agile data centers for the 
edge of the network. CORD integrates multiple open source projects to offer an agile, open, programmable and native platform for n etwork 
operators to create innovative services. CORD has also proven to be a comprehensive integrated platform that includes everyth ing required to 
create an operational data center complete with integrated service capabilities, all based on basic hardware  that uses the latest native cloud 
design principles.  
11 Close cooperation, generally between two or more companies, for the purposes of implementing joint projects.  
12 RAN - Radio Access Network.  
13  Big data analytics is the process whereby big data is gathered (from the Internet of Things, smart cars, social networks, etc .) and analyses to 
obtain useful information for the business. Big data analytics techniques make it possible to provide companies  with new information on issues 
such as the market context, competition and customer behavior to improve customer experience strategies, etc.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
75 
 the relevant standards governing quality (ISO9001), environmental factors (ISO14001) and ope rational processes of 
innovation; TIM’s processes are generally based on the Telemanagement Forum's E -Tom reference standard1.  
 
 [GRI 203 -1] In 2019 TIM committed a total of around 1,300 employees to working on technological innovation and 
engineering activities in 2019, representing an overall investment of 1,113 million euros, for the S.p.A.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Activi ties for the future of mobility and networks: initiatives for 5G  
 
TIM switched on the new 5G network in Sanremo in February 2019 as main sponsor to the 69th Festival della Canzone 
Italiana song festival and also  introduced the new mobile network to stadiums in Rome and Udine, doubling the 
performance of the 4.5G mobile network and laying the foundations for fans to enjoy the new digital experience of 
football matches in 5G.  
In the same month, TIM introduced ten start -ups developed within the Group's TIMWCAP open innovation incubator at 
the Mobile World Congress 2019 in Barcelona. The ten projects spanned various fields of application, including 
entertainment and new e -sports, personal finance, digital commerce an d mobile payment solutions right through to IoT 
solutions based on artificial intelligence.  
Also in February 2019, TIM launched a 5G infrastructure partnership with Vodafone  with a view to optimizing investment 
in 5th -generation networks.  
In May, meanwhi le, the first innovative 5G service tests on using drones and rover -type vehicles controlled remotely via 
the mobile network for the purposes of regional control and monitoring were launched as part of an agreement signed 
between the Liguria Region, the Mu nicipality of Genoa, Liguria Digitale, Ericsson and TIM for the Digital Lab 5G.  
TIM officially launched 5G in Rome on July 5, 2019 and announced the cities that were already covered (Naples, Rome 
and Turin), along with development plans, commercial offerin gs and the initial services already available for consumers 
and business customers.   
During the summer of 2019, and thanks to TIM, the Jova Beach Party was the first music tour of the 5G era in Italy to use 
drones, virtual reality applications, 360° panor amic live video and multiview (multiple systems on a single screen) on 5G -
enabled smartphones ; all set up in demo corners right on Italy’s main beaches.  
In late July, TIM brought 5G to Naples and, in early August, signed a memorandum of understanding with the City of Turin 
that strengthened their partnership with a view to using 5G to make the Piedmontese capital a pioneering model of a 
digital city. The agreement notably concerned the joint development of operations and solutions in the digital field 
toget her within the Turin region for the purposes of creating innovative applications for the smart city.  
TIM turned on 5G at the 40th Rimini Meeting in August 2019 and introduced the digital services of the future in an area 
dedicated entirely to 5G solutions and innovative start -ups, from smart benches for the smart city model to virtual reality 
sightseeing tools and even digital entertainment applications.  
In November 2019, TIM and the City of Turin introduced Europe’s first 5G Edge Cloud live network with c onnected drones 
in Turin, enabling the big data collected from IoT platforms to be processed in an integrated manner and analyses by 
artificial intelligence systems, consequently making the 5G Edge Cloud central to developing and deploying Smart City 
digit al services, including public safety and driverless cars, environmental monitoring and Industry 4.0. The 5G Edge Cloud 
network guarantees an ultra -high bandwidth and low latency and allows extremely high amounts of data to be combined 
and processed, provid ing secure digital services of an extremely high quality that respect customer privacy and offer 
greater agility and flexibility when it comes to configuring services and applications according to the typical cloud logic. 
5G also took center stage at the g lobal 5GAA event in Turin, where TIM presented a series of exclusive live demos of 
connected driving aids designed to ensure safe, comfortable driving. The highway demos showcased at the event were 
produced in conjunction with the City of Turin and other p artners, and they  were part of the Smart Roads project and 
included the following: cameras and sensors on pedestrian crossings (Road Site Units) connected to the 5G network to 
indicate the presence of a pedestrian crossing to vehicles in the area; on -board  units (OBUs) positioned on a bicycle and 
a vehicle with the ability to display messages on the cyclist's smartwatch and on the vehicle's display in order to indicate 
their respective positions and increase attention levels.  
                                                                 
1 The Business Process Framework (eTOM) can be considered an operational model structure for telecommunications se rvice providers; the model 
describes the required business processes, defines the key elements and the way in which they should interact. eTOM is a stan dard managed by 
the TM Forum - an association for service providers and their suppliers in the telecommu nications and entertainment sectors.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
76 
 TIM then presented, under real  traffic conditions, the Urban Georeferenced Alert service, developed in conjunction with 
the City of Turin, the FCA, the Links Foundation, the Polytechnic University of Turin, SWARCO and 5T and boasting the 
ability to provide useful traffic information, s uch as notices of work in progress, any queues that may lie ahead and speed 
reduction signs; this data is communicated to TIM's 5G Digital Business Platform, which sends it over the 5G network to 
the car, allowing the driver to make the necessary decisions .  
Furthermore, TIM’s 5G service at the Lingotto track in Turin has made it possible to introduce services that can share and 
use information in real time to project the driver into the not -too-distant future thanks, also, to the augmented reality 
sensors.    
TIM launched its 5G commercial offering in Florence in the autumn, before extending it in late November to cover Genoa, 
making the first services available to families and businesses.   
The year 2019 ended with two major demonstrations based on TIM's 5G  technology . The first of these involv ed a live 
surgical procedure using 5G immersive reality, performed by Professor Giorgio Palazzini, who was ‘teleported’ from Rome 
to the operating theatre of the hospital in Terni during the International Conference on  Digestive Surgery. The operation 
was followed by over 30,000 specialists and surgeons from all over the world in live multi -streaming mode1. Using three 
cameras installed in the hospital’s operating theatre that were broadcasting simultaneously, one of wh ich was a special 
360° high -definition camera, Professor Palazzini participated live in the operation, simultaneously observing the procedure 
and the patient’s biometric data, with the ability to zoom in and out and select any details of particular interes t, as well 
as observing the patient’s internal organs in single -view mode using a laparoscopic camera that was also connected to 
the network. The high quality of the 4K video communication and the immediacy of immersive reality, as guaranteed by 
the low la tency of 5G, meant that Professor Palazzini was able to access diagnostic information in real time, comment 
on it and follow the operation as if he were part of the onsite team in Terni.  
The second demonstration of TIM's 5G potential took place at the Monz a circuit, which has become the first 5G circuit in 
Europe. On December 6, 2019, during the Monza Rally Show 2019, live demos of the new services made possible by the 
use of TIM 5G in the automotive, industry 4.0, digital tourism, smart city and drone fiel ds were showcased, accompanied 
by the announcement of the launch of 5G commercial services in Brescia.  
All 5G technological development activities are accompanied by a coherent technical communications activity, ranging 
from the editorial to the promotiona l aspects, including scientific dissemination events and the organization of special 
customer visits to the TIM innovation centers in Turin and Rome.   
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] IoT Open Lab   
In November 2016, TIM opened the IoT Open Lab,  which became fully operational in 2017, at its base in Turin. Its purpose, 
according to the methods inherent in Open Innovation, is to support the development of IoT solutions based on key 
technologies for the Telco Operator. In particular, the IoT Open L ab acts as a business accelerator to support companies 
in entering the ecosystem of technologies standardized by the 3GPP and, as regards the current period, Narrow Band IoT 
technologies. In 2018, more than 180 companies and customers visited the Lab, and among them, around fifty 
construction companies agreed a partnership with TIM for use of the Lab’s facilities free of charge.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Research with universities  
In 2019, Open Innovation activities (understood as R&D participatory behavior) were largely concentrated on the new 
innovation model pursued at TIM and guided by top management. In particular, research and development conducted 
with Italian universities fo cused on innovative technologies and application solutions, with a special focus on the 
opportunities afforded by 5G.  
As stated, the financial commitment was approximately 1.3 million euros, for specific research activities, in particular:  
• in partnership with the Politecnico di Torino, the twenty research projects on technological innovation related to 5G 
and ultra -broadband, as well as cognitive computing2 and artificial intelligence, as solutions for the development of 
new application scenarios in numero us contexts (for example the IoT and use of drones). One of the projects 
addressed ethical and privacy issues that may arise from using artificial intelligence;  
• research projects defined as part of the MiSE (Ministry for Economic Development) Bari Matera 5G project continued, 
involving TIM along with six academic institutions: the National Research Council (Centro Nazionale dell e Ricer che - 
                                                                 
1 Streaming can be defined as a method of transmitting or receiving data (especially video and audio material) over a computer network in the 
form of a constant and continuous stream, meaning that it can be played back whilst subsequent data is being receiv ed. 
2 A more advanced system that gives machines a part of the functions of the human brain.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
77 
 CNR), the Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies Pisa (SSSA), Bari Polytechnic, Bari University, Basilicata University 
and Salento University. In 2019, research projects focused on 5G and the development of new use scenarios in 
numerous applications developed from trials (such as Sanità 5.0 (Health 5.0), Public Safety, Smart Agriculture, 
Environmental Monitoring and Smart City). One of the projects was dedicated to assessing the socio/economic 
impacts related to trialing  5G;  
• the partnership with the Milan State University continued, with the funding of two research PHDs, and the stipulation 
of a three -year agreement, based  on which a research project was started in 2019 for the development of a “family 
activity recognition” module, starting from data obtained from sensors, providing service and content suggestions for 
family members via a digital family assistant. The partn ership is part of the initiatives of the Open Innovation 
laboratory “Joint Open Lab” (JOL) of TIM Innovation, Milan;  
• an agreement was established with Turin University, under which a study and research project was started on "smart 
conversational systems",  targeted at a better and more effective man/machine interaction;   
• activities with Catania University continued, as part of the Catania “Joint Open Lab (JoL)”, with TIM Innovation 
focusing on acceleration towards a market finalization of the entire IoT ec osystem and 5G development activities.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Funded research activity  
TIM has always been active in innovative and research initiatives funded by the European Union and by national public 
administrations. This has enabled it to take part in international projects on issues that TIM should have developed, with 
a high innovati on content, to extend and consolidate its own know -how in sectors featuring rapid technological 
developments and to work with leading research centers, academic institutions and industries of leading European 
countries, as well as Taiwan and Japan; partici pation in projects made it possible to obtain funding of around 16 million 
euros over the 2017 -2019 period. In this area, it has been involved in activities carried out as part of funded projects 
concerning 5G, visualization and intelligent mobility servic es, furthering its expertise and gaining a prominent position in 
the international sphere.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Patents and Intellectual Property Rights1 
In 2019, the Group's patents portfolio was comparable with that of previous ye ars; in fact, there was a slight increase in 
inventions evaluated for patenting, and a slight decrease in new patent filings. Moreover, activities to streamline the 
patents portfolio resulted in some patents being abandoned, which, with technological devel opments, did not have any 
possibility of still being used. The Group's patent areas concern the entire ICT segment, with areas of excellence in the 
mobile segment, particularly concerning radio access, where TIM is one of the leading TLC operators worldwid e.  
In detail, the TIM patents portfolio, relative to approximately 600 patented inventions, included over 3,300 patent 
applications and patents as of December 31, 2019, of which 88% comprising patents (granted by 38 patent offices).  
A significant aspect o f patent activities refers to the high number of patents stemming from partnerships with Universities 
and research institutes: 12 % of patented inventions are the result of these partnerships.  
Moreover, TIM is part of a patent pool2 on Long Term Evolution,  with a patented invention essential for the standard. The 
patent pool acquired new participants during the year (bringing the current total to 25 license -holders) and granted 
licenses to 48 companies.  
 
 
In Brazil   
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 20 3] [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  The “Architecture & 
Innovation Technology” department3 is responsible for Research and Development (R&D) activities of TIM Participações; 
its main responsibilities are defining the technological innovation of the network and information technologies, 
determining the evolutionary needs for new technologies and  devices, converging architectural guidelines and strategic 
partnerships, so as to exploit new business models and guarantee the evolution of the network infrastructure in line with 
the business strategy.  
In December 2019, the Architecture & Innovation Te chnology function comprised 52 people including 
telecommunications, electrical, electronic and IT engineers and other positions with professional profiles, skills and 
                                                                 
1 Intellectual property rights.  
2 This is a  consortium  of at least two companies that agree to exchange patent licenses relative to a given technology.  
3 Innovation Architecture and Technology, in the context of the Chief Technology and Information Office (CTIO).  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
78 
 expertise that cover all network knowledge areas, meeting innovative requirements and sup porting research and 
development activities.  
An important result was the creation of TIM Lab a multifunction environment focused on innovation, able to assess 
technologies, products and innovative services, certify their functional efficiency and performance, and develop new 
models and configurations, consolidating the innovation flow. TIM Lab has a strategic role in supporting credibility testing 
(service validation tests), inspections and proof of concepts, working with leading suppliers and tech nology partners, 
sharing knowledge, technological infrastructure for interoperability tests, evaluating resources and defining technical 
requirements; in synergy with the R&D department, it facilitates innovation and promotes collaborations with universiti es 
and research institutes.  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  In January 2017, a new office was opened for the TIM Lab Innovation Center 
at the CEO's head office in Barra da Tijuca, in the State of Rio de Janeiro: boasting a surface area of 650 m2 that can 
accommodate over 60 people. This new site can be used by engineers and researchers, and as an innovation space open 
to new opportunities, steering innovation on the Brazilian telecommunications market and featuring as a national leader 
for R&D ac tivities1. 
In 2019, over 140 validation processes were carried out on new software, functionalities, solutions, technologies, services 
and devices. TIM Participações invested more than 2.7 million reais in instruments, infrastructure and services, and 
addi tional investments for over 10 million reais have been planned for the 2020 -2022 period.  
The "Architecture & Innovation" department continues to work on projects and initiatives aiming to ensure the evolution 
of the business of TIM Participações through th e recommendation of sustainable, efficient network platforms and 
disruptive models, including anticipating the availability of new services. These projects can be divided into the following 
macro groups:  
• new generation networks;  
• with positive impacts on th e environment and company;  
• future Internet applications;  
• Open Lab Initiatives.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] New generation networks projects  
The reassignment of the 1,800 MHz, 850 MHz and 2,100 MHz bands from 2G/3G to 4G, with a multilayer d istribution 
configuration, gives TIM Participações three important competitive advantages:  
• a reduction in LTE2 implementation costs;  
• an increase in LTE coverage and enabling of the Carrier Aggregation strategy, improving customer experience by 
means of a h igher “throughput”;  
• the best indoor coverage. In addition to increased coverage, use of the 850/1,800/2,100 MHz bands could increase 
capacity in cities already covered by the LTE 2.6 GHz band, at limited additional cost.  
 
In this scenario, over 96% of curr ent LTE terminals are compatible with 1,800 MHz, 2,600 MHz bands and other available 
bands. Therefore, the implementation of the multilayer LTE is still an excellent strategy benefiting from the dissemination 
of devices.  
 
The implementation of the LTE laye r at 700 MHz has continued to improve the increase in coverage and penetration in 
closed environments significantly, promoting LTE at a national level and consolidating the leadership of TIM Participações 
in LTE. The actual roll -out will observe the rules of the EAD3, in order to manage spectrum cleaning and avoid interference 
with TV broadcasting services. 86% of the current user base of LTE devices of TIM Participações is enabled for the 700 
MHz band (December 2019).  
At the end of December 2019, 2,313 cities had LTE coverage at 700 MHz, i.e over 93% of the urban population; spectrum 
cleaning was completed in June 2019 in all Brazilian cities, in order to have a 700 MHz band Over 3,300 cities covered by 
TIM Participaçõe s in the 700 MHz band are expected by the end of 2022, according to the 2020 -2022 business plan.  
 
                                                                 
1 TIM Lab of TIM Participações also works with TIMLab  Italy, that has over 50 years of experience and some 1,000 employees, including 
engineers and researchers, over 3,000 patents registered and more than 12,000 m2 of floor space  
2 Long Term Evolution.  
3 Entidade Administradora do Processo de Redistribuição e Digitalização de Canais de TV e RTV, (management of the entity of the process to 
redistribute and digitalize TV and RTV channels).  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
79 
  
IP Multimedia Network Evolution . In 2017, TIM launched VoLTE (high definition voice over LTE services on the market, 
enabling call services without the need to pass via legacy circuit switching technology, also benefiting the use of 100 
approved smartphone models. In late December 2019, this service was enabled in 3,401 cities (Geomarketing report data).  
 
For Network Function Virtualization (NFV) and Software  Defined Networks (SDN), some initiatives were developed, such 
as the creation of the NFV program of TIM Participações, that included four work teams (according to the NFV logical 
domains and areas of expertise), in order to determine technical requirement s, infrastructure projects, operating tables 
of VNF, open laboratory specifications and the reference architecture conforming to the NFV ETSI standard1. In this 
context, the VAS2 Messaging Consolidation was the first VNF3 implemented on the commercial netw ork, followed by the 
IMS platform and roaming services, according to the NFV principle. In December 2019, other network functions, such as 
PCRF ( Policy and Charging Rules Function4)  DRA (Diameter Routing Agent5), STP (Signaling Transfer Point6), Roaming 
Platform, HSS -FE (Home Subscriber Server Front End)7 and EPC8, were operating as VNF. Different approaches to SDN 
were also covered in preliminary studies, allowing for complete orchestration and the definition of the cloud environment. 
A reduction in CapEx/OpEx9, the quicker time -to-market, optimization and innovative actions are the main drivers fo r the 
adoption of these new network approaches. As an alternative to hypervisor VMWare10, TIM Participações acquired the 
Red Hat Openstack Suite as the VIM for its NFV -I. This acquisition will improve the reach of data centers up to the EDGE, 
enabling new s ervices based on Edge Computing11 and MEC12. 
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Projects involving a reduction in energy consumption  
The expansion of “4G RAN sharing”, in partnership with other Brazilian mobile operators, aims to define the architectural 
requirements, technical assumptions and specifications for the “LTE RAN sharing13” solution, optimizing the network 
resources and costs14. Another factor behind this initiative concerns coverage and timing issues relative to regulatory 
obligations (many cities will have to have a 2.6 GHz spectrum coverage in a short period of time, along with the 
implementation of numerous sites). Initially, tests were conducted in a controlled environment (Innovation Lab) and the 
solution was based on M OCN15, standardized by the 3GPP16. A second test was then launched to evaluate other technical 
issues. At present, this is the largest RAN sharing agreement in the world, and provides 4G services to main Brazilian 
cities.  
                                                                 
1 European Telecommunications Standards Institute.  
2Value Added Services.  
3 Virtual Network Function.  
4 PCRF (policy and c harging rules department), which supports the identification of service data flows, the adoption of policies and charges base d 
on the flow. It offers a complete solution enabling a supplier of new generation services to offer several use scenarios to b etter check services and 
align inflows with their own resources.  
5 DRA (diameter routing agent) is a fundamental element of the 3G or 4G network (like LTE), that provides real time routing fun ctions to ensure 
that messages are routed via the correct elements o f a network.  
6 STP (signal transfer point) is used in an SS7 network (standard set of signaling protocols  used in Public Switched Telephone Networks worldw ide 
to handle calls) or CC7. STPs transfer SS7 messages between interconnected nodes (terminal signaling points), based on inform ation contained 
in the fields of SS7 addresses.  
7 The front -end of the domestic user server (HSS -FE) has a central role in mana ging user data in the Evolved Packet Core (EPC) subsystem and 
the IP Multimedia Core Network (IMS).  
8 The fundamental duty of the Evolved Packet Core is to provide IP connectivity to the terminal both for data and voice service s. 
9 Capital expenditures and  operational expenditures.  
10 A hypervisor, also known as a virtual machine monitor, is a process that creates and manages virtual machines (VM). A hypervi sor enables a 
host computer ( computer or other device connected to a computer network that may offer r esources, services and information applications to 
users or other network nodes) ) to support several VM guests (software component of a virtual machine, an independent element of an operating 
system and the relative software and associated information) sha ring its resources, such as memory and processing, virtually.  
11 This is the processing of information at the network edges, where data are produced. The main benefits from using edge computing 
technologies are a reduction in  processing latency, that enables real time responses, and band saving , sending information already processed 
and thus of smaller dimensions to the data center . 
12 Multi -access Edge Computing  - connection technology used in 5G networks . 
13 Sharing of the “Radio Access Network”.  
14 The infrastructure costs are mainly associated with the introduction of new radiating systems and other electronic components , infrastructure 
of passive sites and transport networks; therefore, the sharing of resources supplied by LTE RAN means a signific ant optimization in costs for 
telecommunications operators.  
15 The Multiple Operator Core Network (main network for several operators), enables spectrum sharing; with continual traffic req uests towards 
4.5/5G, MOCN technology and spectrum sharing are import ant enabling factors, considered by the regulatory authorities.  
16The 3rd Generation Partnership Project.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
80 
 The RAN sharing agreement enables TI M to promote the dissemination of LTE in the Brazilian countryside, effectively 
access and back haul1. At present, the 4G Sharing RAN is based on three national partners, extending the benefits and 
efficiency of this technical model.  
 
Following continual t esting and the consequent enabling of energy saving functions and solutions, mainly during low 
traffic periods, for the 2G, 3G and 4G access layers ,the energy consumption recorded for the site, dependent on the access 
technology and coverage conditions, sh owed a reduction of up to 10%.  
 
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] New generation network projects, future Internet applications, positive 
impacts on the environment and company  
IoT - In 2018, TIM Participações launched the first NB -IoT2 commercia l network in South America, in the city of Santa Rita 
do Sapucai, to develop innovative services together with INATEL (Telecommunication National Institut) University, a 
leading research center in Brazil. TIM also enabled NB -IoT coverage in 2018, in the ci ties of Itajubá, in conjunction with 
UNIFEI (Università Federale di Itajuba), and Rio de Janeiro. TIM Participações is aware that the mass introduction of the 
IoT can significantly change the mobile telephone market, as it drives the creation of services a nd - among others - is a 
potential tool for agricultural applications, vehicle connections, traceability solutions and social/health assistance.  
Two important goals were achieved in 2019, and namely the activation of an E -SIM (Embedded SIM3) platform, and  the 
acquisition of a IoT/M2M platform. These two infrastructures will enable TIM Participações to adopt an E2E M2M4/IoT 
system, allowing TIM to promote important innovations and new products, aimed at using the potential of the IoT in 
different vertical s ectors.  
 
Agrobusiness - Since 2018, TIM Participações together with Nokia and BR Digital has been focusing on the potential 
agrifood business in Brazil, offering connections in rural areas (not only for company applications, but also the digital 
inclusion of agrobusiness employees and residents in small towns). One of the projects delivered in April 2018 to Jalles 
Machado, an energy group in the city of Goianésia, replaced manual appointments with mobile ones, improving 
communication between the office and field; plus computers on board agricultural machines mean that information can 
be managed  in real time. The project integrates 812 smartphones and 1006 company lines, with 650 smartphones for 
appointments in the field. In 2019, TIM consolidated its positio ning in relation to vertical agriculture5, by creating the 
ConnectarAgro agrosystem ( https://conectaragro.com.br/ ) that brings together TIM, suppliers of solutions for the 
agroindustry and suppliers of telecommu nications solutions.  
 
5G - In April 2018, the “Architecture & Innovation Technology” Department completed its studies and tests on interference 
in the city of Guaratiba  (State of Rio de Janeiro) in the 3.5 GHz band, considered to be the band at the forefront of 5G. The 
aim was to demonstrate that IMT (International mobile Communication) in Brazil, in the 3.5 GHz band, and the reception 
of the fixed satellite service (FCS S), in the adjacent C band (3625 -4200 MHz)6, can co -exist without any limitation on the 
use of 3.5 GHz. During the first half of 2019, ANATEL planned rules for the use of 3.5 GHz and an auction for the first 
quarter of 2020 concerning the 3.5 GHz e 2.3 GHz  bands.  
 
In June 2019, TIM Participações selected three cities, Florianópolis, Santa Rita do Sapucaí and Campina Grande to test the 
5G technology. In September, TIM set up a TIM 5G Home, in particular during HackTown 2019, the innovation festival 
sponsored  for the first time by TIM Participações, which is held each year in Santa Rita do Sapucaí (in the State of Minas 
Gerais). With a specific ANATEL license, the TIM 5G home demonstrates accessible solutions on an interactive basis (with 
                                                                 
1 In the telecommunications sector,  a back haul  network (return  loading) or return network is the portion of a hierarchical network that includes 
intermediate connections between the central network  (or core or backbone), and small subnetworks at the "edges" of the hierarchical network.  
2 Narrowband Internet of Things  (NB-IoT) is a standard LPWAN (Low Power Wide Area Network) radio technology developed by the 3GPP for 
communication to a wide range of mobile devices and services.  
3 This is a minuscule chip embedded in the device (in particular smartphones), which is extremely compact compared to conventiona l telephone 
SIMs.  
4 Machine to Machine means the technologies and services that allow for the automatic transfer of information fro m one machine to another, 
with limited or no human interaction.  
5 These are crops above ground, in closed greenhouses, that grow to height on several, automated, climate -controlled levels, with reference to 
large plants. These systems are 75% more productive than traditional field crops, and use around 95% less water. Plus, they h ave no geographic 
constraints, as they can be used in urban areas, offering locally grown fresh produce.  
6 Mainly the application of only TV reception (TVRO). TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
81 
 the arrival of 5G), r egarding health, education, safety, entertainment and games, i.e. the context in which we live and 
work; some demonstrations have been developed in conjunction with Ericsson, Qualcomm, Cisco and Inatel, and also 
with ABB, Intel and LG.  
 
 
[GRI 103 -3: Manage ment Approach] [GRI 203] IoT Open Lab  
In 2017, TIM Participações took part in the Telecom Infra Project (TIP), an initiative set up by Facebook, SK Telecom, 
Deutsche Telekom, Nokia, Intel and other companies, with the aim of creating a new approach to cons tructing and 
implementing the telecommunications network infrastructure. TIM Participações has transformed TIM Lab into the first 
TIP Community Lab in Latin America, for use by TIP members to create universal standards relating to solutions (initially 
for transport networks, the Open Optical Packet Transport work team) in order to overcome the challenges linked to the 
interoperability of the different providers. This initiative is an open, cooperative approach to developing and testing out 
new technologies and solutions, such as whitebox1 and disaggregated devices, for back haul architectures and data 
centers.  
In 2018, TIM Participações also took part in a new work team inside TIP, together with Vodafone and Telefonica, called 
DCSG (Disaggregated Cell Site Gateway2). This project is an opportunity to define a set of common requirements for 
operators, and coordinate with companies that produce devices, that have greater, more flexible capacities and are 
cheaper. In June 2019, supported by Facebook, TIM Partic ipações organized a Proof of Concepts of the DCSG solution of 
IPInfusion and Core EDGE suppliers and TIP members, in order to demonstrate the main functions of the solution.  
 
 
 
 
Digital inclusion  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  The 2019 materiality analysis confirmed geographical and social digital 
inclusion in Italy and Brazil as a material topic. Amongst other things, the ICT3 sector offers both potential to allow 
everyone to participate in social and economic life and solutio ns for a better future, saving time and natural resources4.  
 
Geographical digital inclusion  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203 ] The 5G technology5 
At the end of 2018, the assignment of 5G frequencies in Italy, available until 2037, was completed.  
This new technology goes beyond a simple evolution of 4G performance, aiming to create an entire innovative network 
and service platform capable of meeting the future demands of the 2020 digital society6.  
According to the ITU -R IMT.2083 (IMT Vision) Recom mendation7 of 2015, the 5G system includes a number of business 
scenarios that can be grouped into three main macro -categories (each characterized by different requirements) 
summarized in the following figure (scenarios for IMT use for 2020 and beyond).  
 
The use scenarios are:  
• Enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB), for video transmission and Gbps8 communication (enabling Augmented/Virtual 
Reality ); 
                                                                 
1 Software not associated with hardware.  
2 Based on an open, disaggregated architecture, the new DCSG is designed for the economic back haul of mobile site traffic in existing mobile 
networks and in emerging 5G infrastructure.  
3 Information & Communication Technology.  
4 According to “McKinsey Global Institute 2018/smart cities: digital solutions for a  more liveable future” it also produces less waste . 
5  Acronym for fifth generation mobile technology and standards.  
6 5G will be introduced gradually because, in the first phase ( early drop ), 5G radio access will be “supported” by the LTE ( Long Term Evolution ) 
network, which will play an integral and subordinate role.  
7  International Telecommunication Union -Radiocommunication Sector , International Mobile Telecommunications . 
8 Giga byte per second  (over one billion bytes of information per second).  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
82 
 • Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communication (URLLC), typical of many industry needs and the most demanding vertical 
markets - self-driving cars energy management, robotics - and mission critical public safety applications;1 
• Massive Machine Type Communication (mMTC), which enables object connectivity, IoT (Internet of Things ) and Smart 
Cities . 
 
Over the next few years, 5G will be the revolution that everyone can experience in their daily lives.  Its field of application 
is much wider than the technology that came before, thanks to the current scenarios in which it will be used, which are 
characterized by :  
• sensors available , at competitive costs, able to decipher physical information into digital, transforming the objects 
around us into digital data;  
• the most widespread connectivity allowing any object to transfer and receive data at any time;  
• artificial intelligence technology allowing sophisticated processing of large amounts of information.  
 
Main applications will target:  
• the automotive and transport sector:  
• the area of connectivity between vehicles and between vehicles and infrastructures, aimed at increasing safe ty, 
saving energy and reducing traffic;  
• infotainment2 connectivity, where large volumes of data can be transmitted on the move (e.g. GPS3, parking 
sensors, voice commands, guidance systems and assisted braking);  
• self driving and connected cars which - thanks to a system able to receive all the information about the 
surrounding environment - can be remotely controlled and driven;  
• industry 4.0, namely:  
• digital transformation of the industrial world with the adoption of robots, three -dimensional printers ( 3D printing) 
and other complex tools;  
• the systematic addition of sensors to products, to produce data to improve production and processes;  
• the evolution of the supply chain to enable real -time management of relations with suppliers and end customers;  
• the new media world, with changing use habits and new formats, including virtual and augmented reality solutions, 
which require new transmission capabilities;  
• healthcare, with remote assistance, to enable specialists to assist patients with chronic diseases from afar;  
• public safety, with mobile video surveillance solutions that can integrate data and images for a far broader vision, 
guaranteeing greater public security levels than the past;  
• assistance for tourists who can have information and multimedia cont ent on their visits at their fingertips, thanks to 
sensors on their smartphones;  
• the information sector which can ensure “live” connections with a better video quality without complex instruments, 
thanks to a greater bandwidth availability, combined with a  reduced latency.  
 
TIM's 5G is already available with services for citizens and businesses in Rome, Turin, Florence and Naples with speeds of 
up to 2 Gigabits per second. Recently the cities of Genoa, Brescia and Monza have been added; Milan is a "5G ready  city".   
The next cities to be covered by the 5G service will be Bologna, Verona, Ferrara, Matera and Bari.  
By 2021 coverage will comprise 120 cities, 200 tourist destinations, 245 industrial districts and 200 specific projects for 
large enterprises.  
 
5G system implementation must be done in compliance with energy efficiency constraints (measured in bit/Joule ) since , 
according to the ITU IMT -Vision recommendation (M.2083), energy consumption of the new system must be 
appropriately monitored and “not gre ater” than that of existing networks. With a view to this, TIM is already assessing 
the energy consumption of new radio base stations in light of eMBB, to ensure the increase in occupied bandwidth (up to 
100 MHz) is not accompanied by a proportional increa se in consumption.  
                                                                 
1 Vertical markets are linked to a specific industrial sector and defined  by end customer type (not product type). Meeting the needs of vertical 
market customers means providing them with added value in terms of expertise and market -specific best practice, as well as having a detailed 
understanding of customer needs and related  market development factors.  
2 A word of Anglo -Saxon derivation that merges the words information  (information) and entertainment  (entertainment). Car infotainment  is the 
set of multimedia functions at the service of a car.  
3 Global Positioning System . 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
83 
  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] TIM’s ultra -broadband network   
 
Starting from 2012, TIM has been developing its ultra -broadband1 network with the aim of bringing high speed 
connectivity services with fiber optics to most of the Italian territory and contribute to the economic growth of the country . 
 
TIM chose to implement two different NGAN network architectures for the supply of h igh speed services with fiber optics:  
• FTTC (Fibre To The Cabinet) architecture. The fibre optic cables leave the exchange and go to the street cabinet, where 
an active device is installed (ONU) that transfers data traffic on twisted double copper cables to  reach the 
modem/routers at the customer’s site. The FTTC network, thanks to eVDSL2 technology, can reach speeds of 200 
Megabits per second and, with further technological developments, possibly up to 300 Mb/s;    
• FTTH (Fibre To The Home) architecture. The  fibre optic cables leave the exchange and arrive directly inside apartments 
(through the so -called “vertical”). At the customer site, an active device is installed (ONT) that transfers data traffic 
from the fibre optics to the modem/routers. The FTTH netw ork technology GPON3 can reach speeds of one gigabit 
per second and is developed in areas already covered by FTTC technology, so as to ensure to customers choice in 
terms of connection speed.  
 
 
In order to deal with the digital divide that has arisen in t he so -called marginal areas of Italy, which would otherwise 
remain excluded from the mainstream plans of telecommunications operators due to the low profitability of investments, 
between 2005 and December 2019, TIM implemented a programme of investments al lowing ADSL coverage (gross4  
coverage > 70%) to be provided for 7,672 municipalities in total.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203 -1] As of December 2019, TIM, in Italy, had activated the ADSL service in 
around 9,700exchanges, including 8,580 with optic fiber  carriers. Alongside its plan to extend coverage, TIM has launched 
an additional plan to expand the active network5, where necessa ry, to guarantee full usability of the service by customers 
and the development of digital inclusion  
 
 
 
. 
 
                                                                 
1 Also known as NGAN, Next Access Generation Network . 
2Enhanced Very High -speed Digital Subscriber Line.  
3Gigabit Passive Optical Network.  
4 Official TIM coverage data refer to the technical coverage of the telephone population (in terms of 64 kbit/s equiva lent lines) gross of areas that 
cannot technically be served due to the characteristics of the copper access network (presence of digital devices such as mul tiplexes - MPX, 
Remote Concentration Units (RCUs), Multiplexes with Fibre Optic Backhauling - MD48,  excessive distance from the exchange, etc.).  
5 The plan consists of actions to ensure full availability of the service by customers by expanding the capacity of equipment u sed, in terms of both 
user ports and bandwidth available on the Internet. The techn ical term for this is desaturation of DSLAM equipment, performed either in advance 
or once specific broadband quality and availability thresholds are exceeded.  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
84 
 [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] The following table shows the percentages of coverage as of December for the past three years.  
 
Indicators  2019  2018  2017  
LTE Coverage (*) >99 99 >97.5  
Next Generation Plan coverage (fixed 
telephony) FTTX (**) 80.5  79.8 77.0 
of which FTTH  16.2 13.7 9.2 
 
(*) The percentage refers to the residential population. Coverage values are subject to change based on ISTAT and urbanization updates. At the 
end of December 2019, the number of municipalities reached was 7,611.  
(**) FTTX stands for Fibre To The X, where X can be C for cabinet, H for house, B for building or E for exchange. The percent age is determined by 
the ratio b etween the number of properties connected with “cabinets” reached by access optical fibers (or which can be served directly f rom 
an exchange if within acceptable distances) and the total number of properties that have or have had active telephone lines i n the past 
(includes a small percentage of FTTH related only to the city of Milan).  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] At the end of December 2019, TIM’s FTTX ultra -
broadband network covered:  
• 2,945 municipalities, with FTTC fibre technology service;  
• 124 municipalities, also with FTTH fibre technology service.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203] [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] The principal objectives to increase Italian 
geographical digital inclusion, for 2022 , are shown in the following table.  
 
 
Next Generation Plan coverage (fixed telephony) FTTC  % 81%  
Next Generation Plan coverage (fixed telephony) FTTH  % 30%  
 
In the clos ing phase  of this report, TIM SpA is defining the coverage objectives of 5G technology in the coming years; 
these objectives will be communicated at a later date . 
 
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  A focus on innovation and investments in new infrastructure and 
technologies also characterizes TIM’s action in Brazil . The development of fixed and mobile Ultrabroadband (UBB) 
networks on the one hand and 5G on the other have led to an unprecedented acce leration in the telecommunications 
sector. This is a phenomenon that is opening up new possibilities, and that is profoundly changing people's habits, as they 
become increasingly accustomed to living in a smart and connected world.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management  Approach] [GRI 203] TIM has invested nearly 5.4 billion euros in Brazil  over the last 5 years, with 
a focus mainly on new generation infrastructure construction and actively contributing to the modernization of the 
country.  
 
[GRI 203 -1] In order to improv e the reach and accessibility of TIM Participações mobile broadband, and as part of the 
technological evolution outlined in the most recent Industrial Plan presented to the financial community, 4G coverage is 
set to be extended (compared to the LTE1 700 MH z bandwidth), with the expansion of VoLTE2, an increase in the number 
of bio -sites installed, and support for the launch of the fiber -optic network alongside the ultra -broadband plan.  
 
                                                                 
1 Long Term Evolution.  
2 VoLTE  (Voice  over  LTE) is a technology that allows you to make voice ca lls on the LTE (4G) network.  Indicator  Unit of measurement   
Target 2022  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
85 
 [GRI 203 -2] TIM Participações supports the development of technologica l partnerships for initiatives focused on social and 
business applications. Through its open innovation program, the company invests in initiatives designed to promote the 
acquisition and exchange of knowledge with universities; the project with the Pontif ical Catholic University of Rio de 
Janeiro (PUC) on blockchain is an example of this, as is that with Inatel1 for the development of a smartcity program 
based on Nb -IoT technology2. TIM Participações  is also working more closely with the Cubo  Itaú innovation center to 
promote co -creation with startups, and has launched a partnership with the Open D'Or initiative for health research.  
The company plays an active role in the development of the IoT ecosystem for rural, smartcity and health soluti ons, and 
is taking part in four IoT pilot projects selected by BNDES (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social)3. In 
addition, the company is also a mentor in the Embrapa initiative4, for the Ideas 4milk program.  
TIM Participações  is dedicated  to finding solutions for flexible rural connectivity, and has developed a series of MVPs5 with 
CPQD6 in rural and industrial areas to test Nb -IoT technology; it has formally received a national innovation award for 
these.  
In addition, the company has als o recently participated in the TIP - Telecom Infra Project, the goal of which is to develop 
innovative and sustainable solutions for the expansion of the telecommunications infrastructure worldwide, working with 
telecom operators, suppliers and integrators  in collaboration with Facebook. Today, via TIM LAB, the Network function is 
home to one of the seven TIP Community Labs that exist worldwide, and has performed tests on optical solutions with a 
view to facilitating the acceleration of transportation netwo rks, enabling the connection of cellular antennas.  
In 2019, TIM Participações  supported discussions regarding 5G technology using the concept of Living Labs, a physical 
space where users, public and private players and the academy can come together to dis cuss, share knowledge and 
collaborate in order to create the next generation of 5G solutions; this new technology will be used to fill the gaps that 
still exist with regard to digital inclusion, providing solutions that improve daily life and well -being in  a host of sectors, 
including health, safety, city "management" and rural manufacturing.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: [Management Approach] [GRI 203] [GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] The principal objectives to increase Italian 
geographical digital inclusion in TIM Participações  for 2021 are shown in the following table.  
Brazil 2022 Targets –Geographic Digital Inclusion   
Indicator  Actual figure 2019  Target 2021  
FTTH (millions of families)  2.3 ➢ 4 
 
The target related to 4G coverage set by TIM Participações is of 3,735 cities (94.86% of the urban population) at the end 
of 2020 and of 3,936 cities (95.64% of the urban population) at the end of 2021. The adjustment of the 2020 target was 
determined by t he update of the perimeter of coverage and budget strategy of the technical network. At the end of 2019, 
4G coverage reached 94% of the urban population, or 3,477 cities.  
 
Digital inclusion in society  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Operation Digital Risorgimento  
Operation Digital Risorgimento is a digital education project for Italy, designed to drive the digitization of the country, a nd 
promote the adoption of concrete tools by a growing number of citizens. The initiative complies with the Digital Republic 
Manifesto promoted by the Special Government Commissioner for the fulfillment of the Digital Agenda, and has obtained 
the support of the Italian representative of the European Commission and of ANCI7. It involves more than 400 tra iners, 
who will be tasked with developing a program of 20 thousand hours of lessons, which will be delivered through training 
courses in all 107 Italian provinces, with a view to teaching more than a million people about the internet and the potential  
                                                                 
1 Instituto Nacional de Telecomunicações (National Institute of Telecommunications).  
2 Narrowband - Internet of Things.  
3 Banco di Sviluppo Economico e Sociale  (Bank for Economic and Social Development), the leading development bank in Brazil.  
4Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária  (Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation), a Brazilian researc h corporation affiliated with the 
Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture.  
5 Most Valuable Player, i.e. the player who has achieved the best performance in a tournament or game.  
6 Centro de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento em Telecomunicações ((the Brazilian Research and Development Center in Telecommunications).  
7 Associazione Nazionale Comuni Italiani  (National Association of Italian Municipalities).  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
86 
 that this holds. The project will be rolled out against a backdrop that sees Italy still lagging behind in the European rankings 
for the use of digital services, despite the high level of infrastructure the country boasts; indeed, around 18 million citiz ens, 
30% of whom are over six years old, have not used the internet in the last year, and one in four families is without an 
internet connection. Of these households, 58% state that they are not connected to the internet because they do not 
know how to use it, w hile 21% do not use it because they do not consider it to be of interest to them [source: Istat, citizens, 
businesses and ICT, 2019].  
In autumn 2019, TIM launched the tour that mainly visits (and indeed, will continue to visit) municipalities with a 
popula tion of between 10 and 60 thousand inhabitants, where the company's digital training courses are to be held. In 
each of these municipalities, the TIM mobile school is available to citizens (from 9.30 am to 7.00 pm from Monday to 
Friday, in the town square specified by the local authorities), constituting a digital culture desk and a team of TIM digital 
facilitators who offer ten short training sessions designed to help these people to discover the internet and its potential 
(with particular regard to servic es, entertainment and security). In the three weeks that follow, inhabitants of these 
municipalities will be able to take part in the classroom -based program (which consists of three two -hour modules, 
morning and afternoon from Monday to Friday), in order to become "citizens of the internet"1.  The courses will mainly 
involve those people (most of whom are aged 50 and older) who have the greatest need to learn how to navigate online, 
communicate and make use of digital citizenship services; these include us ing "certified email" (PEC), changing their 
family doctor (GP) through the public digital identity system (Spid) or paying for a certificate through the pagoPA system.2  
During the second phase, citizens can take advantage of the services offered by local digital facilitators trained by TIM, 
who will transfer skills to the community and ensure the scalability of the program, by means of a multiplier effect.  
TIM has launched a dedicated toll -free number (800 860 860, calls from within Italy) where those inte rested can learn 
more about the project, follow the phases, find out about the municipalities involved and register for the classroom 
courses set to take place in the various locations. More information is available on the dedicated website, 
https://operaz ionerisorgimentodigitale.it.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203]  AGCom decisions3  
TIM's commitments in Italy, in terms of discounts and specific measures, essentially concerned the following categories 
of customers:  
• deaf, blind and partially sighted people. In compliance with the resolution of the Authority for Communications 
Guarantees (AGCom) No. 46/2017/CONS, TIM has given both internet and landline concession offers to these 
customers4. These concessions never expire and once activated do not require any request for renewal, and are also 
reserved for the nuclear family in which the deaf, blind or partially sighted person lives (for further information 
regarding concessions, it is possible to contact TIM customer service 187 and 119). Assist ance can also be provided for 
the deaf by contacting TIM customer service 187 and 119 with the Pedius app, available for Apple and Android, which 
uses voice recognition and speech synthesis technologies, transforming the voice of the operator into written text for 
the customer;  
• people on low incomes who find themselves in a situation of “economic and social hardship”. TIM reserves such 
concessions - established by AGCom5 or by the Company on its own initiative6 - for customers with an ISEE7 family 
unit inc ome not exceeding 8,112.23 €/year, for telephone use service in their primary residence (on the traditional RTG 
                                                                 
1 Employees of public bodies will be able to attend the courses that will be held two mornings a week.  
2 This is the e lectronic payment method designed to make the process of paying pubic bodies simpler, safer and more transparent.  
3 Autorità per le Garanzie nelle Comunicazioni (National Telecoms Regulator)  
4 [GRI 103 -2:Management Approach] [GRI 203 ] In accordance with the aforementioned resolution, for:  
• fixed telephony, for the benefit of deaf customers, is exempt from the telephone service subscription fee (Voice Offer), with  180 free monthly 
hours of internet (broadband ADSL connections) on the offer “by usage” already active on the line (the benefit wa s only available to 
customers who had activated a by usage offer before January 14, 2018). There is also a discount of 50% on the subscription to  an additional 
internet offer or a discount of 50% on the subscription to voice+internet offers, as specified f or blind and partially sighted customers (different 
offers in the TIM SMART HOME and FIBRE range);  
• mobile telephony the TIM concessions guarantee a 20 Gb volume of data traffic and the sending of SMS Unlimited for deaf custo mers (TIM 
Easy SMS+GB), while, for blind and partially sighted customers, an offer consisting of unlimited minutes of voice traffic and a volume of data 
traffic of 10 Gb (TIM Easy VOICE+GB). These dedicated offers are on the tim.it websites: tim.it/agevolazioni -per-non-vedenti -e-non-
udenti/offerte -fisso; tim.it/agevolazioni -per-non-vedenti -e-non-udenti/offerte -mobile.  
5 AGCom Resolution No. 258/18/CONS (already approved by AGCom 314/00/CONS and 330/01/CONS) provides for a 50% reduction of the 
subscription amount for the voice offer (9.4 4 euros/month VAT included) and a total of 30 minutes of free calls per month to national landlines 
and mobile phones. Once the free minutes limit has been exceeded, national calls to landlines and mobile phones are charged a t the expected 
by usage prices for the voice offer (10 cents/min including VAT, without a connection fee).  
6 Customers holding social cards, in compliance with the Ministry of the Economy and Finance Decree of September 16, 2008.  
7 Indicator of the Equivalent Economic Situation.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
87 
 network1). The concession is valid for the same duration as their ISEE certificate (15 January of the year following 
issue) and the request must  be renewed annually;  
• “social card” holders. On its own initiative, TIM gives these customers a reduction on the telephone service subscription 
amount (14.69 euros/month including VAT). The benefit is valid for one year and is automatically renewed on 1 
January of each year. In this case, these benefits cannot be combined with each other and the customer can request 
only one2. 
In addition, TIM guarantees to support customers residing in areas affected by natural disasters (seismic events, floods), 
ensuring business continuity both in the phase of emergency management and in the medium/long term, to protect their 
needs.   
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 203] [GRI 203 -2] In Brazil , TIM Participações has continued to promote 
commercial offers to encourag e the spread of the mobile web, particularly among the poorer classes. This relates to 
offers with reduced rates, particularly suited to promoting the broadening of sociocultural digital inclusion, for example, 
INFINITY WEB, LIBERTY WEB and LIBERTY WEB Rur al (offer in the rural areas of the states of Rio de Janeiro, Espirito 
Santo, Paranà and Santa Catarina).  
Furthermore, the Data Connections project - required by ANATEL of operators who purchased the frequencies detailed 
in the Bidding On Notes No. 004/20 12 (e.g. Claro, Oi, TIM and Vivo) - guarantees cover of rural areas of Brazil, including 
public schools, in accordance with the division between operators. TIM guarantees this service in the states of Rio de 
Janeiro, Espirito Santo, Paranà and Santa Catari na (from January 2018 data download3 at 1 mbps and upload at 256 
kbps) . In April 2019, TIM Participações received a new list of 4,455 public schools, which is its current commitment . In 
December 2019, the project was 80% complete. Further information is av ailable at the link: 
anatel.gov.br/consumidor/telefonia -fixa/atendimento -rural  . 
 
 
 
  
                                                                 
1 Gene ral Telephone Network.  
2 Customers holding social cards, in compliance with the Ministry of the Economy and Finance Decree of September 16, 2008.  
3 Megabits (million bits) Per Second. Kbps stands for kilo (thousand) bits per second.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
88 
 TIM people  
Commitment to our people  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 401]  The materiality analysis conducted by TIM in 2019 confirmed the following 
material topics for the Group: managing labor  relations and developing employment, health and safety of workers, 
together with skills development, reducing inequality and the ability to promote equal opportunities.  
Digital skills are fundamental for the growth and strategic development of the entire sector. So , there is a need to 
continuously update training models to support digital transformation and the relative evolution of  professional skills in 
the Company. To meet the challenges of the future, TIM requires continuous learning, operational and methodological 
flexibility and an innovative problem -solving approach to ensure results are quickly achieved.  
In this scenario, TIM  is recognized as a knowledge company  with technological and market leadership thanks to the 
expertise and skills possessed by its people, where differences and sharing of knowledge represent added value to achieve 
the set business objectives.  
At TIM, the  enhancement of human capital serves to achieve the business aims through its human resources activities, 
which are described in the following paragraphs and always implemented in full compliance with the reference policies1.  
The conviction of the link be tween human capital and the achievement of business objectives led, among other initiatives 
by the Company in 2019, to the completion of an engagement survey, within the Domestic BU, an example of widespread 
and structured participation in which everyone's  voice was heard and people's perception of their own experience of the 
Company was analyses.  
The survey was completed by over 30,000 employees, 64% of the Company's people . 
Four areas were investigated:  
• Strategy : questions related to confidence in the fu ture, competitive market strategy, prospects and priorities for action 
Added to this is the individual's perception of their activity, objectives and performance as part of a larger picture;  
• Leadership : questions about the effectiveness of management (top managers and managers/coordinators) in terms 
of their ability to define and implement the Strategic Plan, support people in achieving performance and development 
goals, listening to individuals' ideas, opinions and needs.  
• My job : questions about the scale of engagement, both in terms of individual involvement and willingness to go 
beyond expectations, and in terms of individuals' satisfaction with their own work;  
• Innovation : gathering opinions on the flexibility of the workplace and its ability to translate  external stimuli and 
mistakes into concrete actions, with the right level of individual responsibility and with an inclusive approach.  
 
Overall and on average, 50% of respondents were satisfied, 25% neutral and 25% dissatisfied with the survey. The same 
percentages were recorded within the individual thematic areas.  
 
Following the survey, a set of actions on the different areas for hearings are planned to improve overall satisfaction, which  
will be monitored by the end of 2020 with a new engagement survey.  
 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 401]  The Head of the Hu man Resources, Organization  & Real Estate department 
is appointed by the Chief Executive Officer. The variable short -term remuneration policy (MBO) assigns the Head of 
Department objectives aligned  with the strategy aimed towards Human Resources.  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 401] [GRI 403] The following table contains a summary of the main final figures 
and objectives for 2019 in TIM S.p.A. relating to the main HR themes.  
 
 
  
                                                                 
1 Code of Ethics and Charter of Values; TIM’s Corporate Governance Principles; Environmental and Social Policies; the Group’s H uman Rights Policy; 
HRO Guidelines; Social Responsibility Policy on child labour, forced labour, health and safety, freedom of ass ociation and the right to collective 
bargaining, discrimination, disciplinary procedures, working hours and pay; Equal Opportunities Charter. In addition, the agr eements reached with 
the trade union representatives and, in particular, the Collective Labour  Agreements, are essential.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
89 
 TIM S.p.A   
  
  2019 Target  Actual figure 2019  
Accidents - Frequency rate* 6.00  6.42 
Accidents per 100 workers  0.90  0.91 
Training** - Coverage (percentage of employees who 
participated in at least one training session from the total 
population)  98%  94%  
 
* number of accidents per million hours worked.  
** In 2019, final figures were calculated from the average workforce number  
 
 
 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 401] [GRI 402] [GRI 404]  
In the Brazilian  scenario, TIM Participações has also developed and updated policies, programs and initiatives seeking to 
maintain the efficiency of the workforce and promoting a healthy, safe, productive and inclusive working environment 
for its employees. In a highly dynamic labour market and a very competi tive business environment, the main focus of HR 
management practices has been:  
 
• Training and skills development, with particular attention to operations especially in the commercial area  
• Rewards and benefits, with greater accessibility by employees and cus tomized policies  
• Health and safety campaigns and policies  
 
The Company has also sought greater staff involvement, creating a structured context and survey projects on 
involvement, as well as initiatives to promote an innovative culture and mentality (in line with TIM values), including 
management objectives.  
 
In 2019, more than 9,000 employees took part to the Corporate Climate Survey, corresponding to 95% of the whole 
workforce.  
The percentage of those who stated to be moderately satisfied was 93% (out o f a 90% target), while the percentage of 
those fully satisfied was 81% (out of a 75% target).  
Compared to 2018, there was an increase in General Favourability -general satisfaction of 6 percentage points in Learning 
and development -learning and development (up 12pp), Clarity and Direction - Transparency and Direction (up 9pp) and 
Trust in Leadership - trust in leadership (up 8pp).  
 
Furthermore, structured communication plans and cascading activities focused on industrial plan and strategic objectives 
have be en implemented quarterly, to ensure understanding of the strategic challenges and people commitment.  
The Company also offered a new environment for people to express themselves, share initiatives and be communicators 
at TIM. The corporate social network (Y ammer) promotes more collaboration, productivity and mobility for employees 
and brought together 8,000 users, with 188 digital groups created to exchange information about TIM projects, learning 
initiatives, organizational climate and other topics that bri ng people together by affinity.  
 
Dealing with efficiency and process effectiveness issues, the organizational framework of the Company continued 
evolving to support strategy and contribute to company objectives. Therefore, a structured process re -engineer ing project 
has been confirmed in order to continue focusing on process effectiveness improvement, also introducing a hybrid set up 
of traditional “waterfall” process approach and more agile way of working in specific areas.  
 
Furthermore, with its Job Arch itecture Project, TIM Brasil started developing specific analysis focusing on skills and job 
evolution on the TLC market, starting from the full understanding of its as is job architecture up to the definition of 
initiatives in recruiting, people developme nt and rewarding policies that will be necessary to ensure alignment with 
emerging jobs, skills and profiles.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
90 
 The Head of HR Department continued reporting directly to the CEO of TIM Participações.  
 
The following table shows a summary of the main final fi gures for 2019 in the Brazil BU concerning the main HR themes.  
 
 
Brazil BU    
  2019 Target  Actual figure 
2019  
Accidents - Frequency rate* 0.88  1.09 
Accidents per 100 workers  0.14 0.18 
Training hours  613,581   363,623  
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
91 
 Concise figures1  
[GRI 102 -7] A summary of the numbers relating to the Group people can be seen in the table below:  
  12/31/2019  12/31/2018  Changes  
Italy  45,261    48,005  (2,744)  
Abroad  9,932    9,896  36 
Total personnel on payroll  55,193    57,901  (2,708)  
Agency contract workers  5 0 5 
Total personnel  55,198    57,901  (2,703)  
Excluding agency contract workers, the Group’s headcount has decreased by 2,708 people compared to December 31, 
2018.  
The changes per BU are detailed in the following tables.  
 Recruited  Departed  Changes  
Domestic  1,060  3.769*  (2,709)  
Brazil  2,552  2,521  31 
Other activities  1 31 (30) 
Turnover  3,613  6,321  (2,708)  
(*) exits include 61 units from the Persidera company, ceded in December 2019.  
 
Turnover: detail by BU  Recruited  Departed  Movement within  
Group +  Movement within  
Group - Changes  
Domestic  420 3,156  640 613 (2,709)  
Brazil  2,551  2,520  1 1 31 
Other activities  1 4 0 27 (30) 
Total  2,972  5,680  641 641 (2,708)  
 
 
Terminations: detail by BU *  Early 
retirement 
incentives*  Retirements  Dismissals  Voluntary 
resignations  Other causes  
Domestic  2,485  52 55 272 231 
Brazil  0 0 1,552  878 90 
Other activities  2 0 0 2 0 
Total  2,487  52 1,607  1,152  321 
(*) The total figure for people who left the Company does not include the 61 units from the Persidera company.  
 
* For further details see note “Employee benefits expenses” in the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 
The high turnover recorded in Brazil is mainly linked to TIM store employees, who have, as for the Brazilian market in 
general, a high turnover. The company is working to improve this data by improvements to both the recruitment process 
and total compensation to increase staff retention.  
The Group composition can be analyses according to various types of segmentation, as shown elsewhere.  
For more information on the characteristics of Group personnel, please refer to the Appendix to this chapter, which, with 
respect to the requirements of the GRI Standard, gives these KPIs [GRI 102 -8], [GRI 401 -1], [GRI 401 -3], [GRI 403 -2], [GRI 
405-2], [GRI 404 -1]. 
As detailed later, and stated in the respective KPIs, policies for hiring, training and developing employees are implemented 
in the communities in which Group companies operate; furthermore, in reading the KPIs, note that:  
                                                                 
1 Unless otherwise stated, the data shown in the tables contained in the TIM People chapter relates to all the Group companies.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
92 
 • [GRI 102 -8] TIM does not use self -employed workers to carry out its business activities, although it is possible that, on 
an occasional basis, some consultancy type activities may be entrusted to self -employed professionals ; 
• [GRI 102 -8] The Group’s activities do not vary seasonally, hence changes in the workforce are correctly shown by the 
annual trends;  
• [GRI 401 -3a] All employees are entitled to parental leave.  
 
 
 
Gender balance  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 405]  There is still a long way to go before true gender balance can be achieved 
in the telecommunications sector which, like all sectors where the main activity is strictly linked to research and 
development of new tech nologies, still continues to have a mainly male workforce. As women have embraced the world 
of work and, in a parallel fashion, scientific and technological culture and studies, their presence has gradually grown 
within companies, seeing them take on more important roles with higher salaries. The recent Italian Law no. 160 of 
December 27, 2019 (Budget Law 2020, in force since 1 January) modified the provisions of the so -called "pink share" 
(introduced in Law 120/2011) to protect gender equality in relation to representation on the administrative and auditing 
bodies of listed companies, increasing the share for the less represented gender, which has gone from at least a third to 
at least two fifths, and decreeing that it will apply for six consecutive mandate s.  
 
This is why at TIM  
• TIM's Articles of Association will be amended to reflect the new allocation criteria for both the Board of Directors and 
the Board of Statutory Auditors, maintaining their applicability on an ongoing basis (and not only for six cons ecutive 
terms as provided for by the new regulations); it will not be necessary to change the composition of the corporate 
bodies that already reflect the new shareholding (6/15 on the Board of Directors and 2/5 on the Board of Statutory 
Auditors, respecti vely);  
• the current development model pays close attention to ensuring that individual growth paths, starting from the time 
of employment, do not contain any restrictions relating to gender or age differences, and particular attention  is paid 
to the female component, where skills and performance are equal;  
• in 2018, within the skills model, the new “Diversity and inclusion” skill was introduced1; 
• TIM has been a signatory of the “Manifesto for female employment” since 2017, promoted by “ Valore D” and with a 
Company commitment to 9 types of activities related to the gender gap: recruitment policies, women and stem 
disciplines, monitoring female presence in the Company, motherhood support , fatherhood support, agile working for 
goals and res ults, welfare policies, presence of women in positions of strategic relevance, updating of top 
management bodies on issues of gender.  
• During 2019, the "Women's Project" was launched, the first phase of which, completed in 2019, was related to an 
important quali -quantitative hearing for all TIM women and also to coordinators of teams with men.  
• • In Brazil , in July 2019, TIM Participações created a new dedicated organizational units, within the HR Department 
which started dealing with People Caring, Diversity  and Inclusion Management activities in a more structured and 
focused way. Gender balance is one of the main focus of the area that has, as its mission, the objective to build and 
manage policies, programs and structured initiatives of diversity and inclus ion, aligned with the strategy and 
organization culture and the principles of inclusion and appreciation of the contribution of each employee.  
 
 
  
                                                                 
1 For further information, refer to The skills model paragraph in this chapter.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
93 
  
[GRI 405 -1] Members of the Board of Directors by age and 
gender  12/31/2019  12/31/2018  12/31/2017  
Total number of members  15 15 15 
Men < 30  0 0 0 
Men 30 -50 0 0 7% 
Men > 50  60%  60%  53%  
Women < 30  0 0 0% 
Women 30 -50 0 13% 13% 
Women > 50  40%  27% 27% 
 
[GRI 405 -1] Members of the Board of Directors of TIM 
Participações by age and gender  12/31/2019  12/31/2018  12/31/2017  
Total number of members  15 16 16 
Men < 30  0% 0% 0% 
Men 30 -50 20%  44%  56%  
Men > 50  66%  56%  31% 
Women < 30  0% 0% 0% 
Women 30 -50 7% 0% 13% 
Women > 50  7% 0% 0% 
In TIM, females in all management positions, including junior, middle and senior management are equal to 25% of total 
management workforce. In the table above you can find the breakdown . 
 [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 405] [GRI 405 -1] Members of the Group’s professional categories by 
gender and age1  
 2019    2018   2017  
 Senior 
Managers  Middle 
Managers  Office 
Staff  Total*    Senior 
Managers  Middle 
Managers  Office 
Staff  Total    Senior 
Managers  Middle 
Managers  Office 
Staff  Total  
Total         555      4,404     50,234     55,193           601    4,453   52,847    57,901          672     4,487     54,270      
59,429    
Men  82%  71% 62%  63%    83%  72% 63%  64%    84%  73% 63%  64%  
Women  18%  29%  38%  37%   17% 28%  37% 36%    16%  27% 37% 36%  
                              
Up to 
30 
years  0% 0% 7% 6%   0% 0% 10%  9%   0% 0% 11% 10%  
From 
30 to 50  27% 34%  47%  46%    0% 13%  26%  25%    7% 15% 26%  25%  
Over 50  73% 66%  46%  48%    90%  86%  64%  66%    93%  85%  63%  65%  
* The “workers” category is not shown as it consists of 1 unit; it is integrated into the “office staff” category.  
The generational imbalance is mainly due to the Italian component that, due to adverse market conditions and in order 
to guarantee work for its employees, has in the past renounced generational renewal through major new hiring 
campaigns.  
 
                                                                 
1In the years prior  to 2019, age groups were reported: Up to 32 years "From 33 to 45"; "over 45". .  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
94 
  
New skills and development  
The skills model  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 404]  The Com petence Model (see figure 
below), revised in the previous year, is a reference point for the various development processes.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Below are the main development activities that defined 2019:  
• Onboarding : for welcoming new recruits to the Company (junior staff, professionals and managers), to speed up their 
“time to perform” and encourage engagement and “intent to stay”. In 2019 a further refinement based on feedback 
collected through monitoring tools (in dividual interviews, surveys) was carried out in order to increase the 
engagement of all involved.  
• Performance Management : the process involves the evaluation of the goals and responsibilities of the entire 
workforce (managers, professionals and office wor kers) and is divided into five phases (assignment of objectives, 
evaluation, mid-year review, evaluator’s selection, feedback). In the first four months of this year the entire 2018 
Performance Management process was concluded which involved the entire Dom estic Business Unit (around 47,000 
people): [GRI 404 -3] 99.3% of people were evaluated by their direct superior and 82% stated that they received 
feedback from their superior. Performance Management 2019 was launched in May of that year with a phase of goal 
assignment, and was completed in June. At the beginni ng of September, the mid -year review phase started with the 
aim of giving people the opportunity to integrate the assigned objectives panel with new activities that emerged 
during the year. The phase ended at the end of October and involved 27% of people.  
4 Areas  
 Create value for 
the company, staff 
and customers, in 
the short term at 
sustainable costs  
Deal with change in a 
timely and dynamic 
way to ensure 
effectiveness and 
operational efficiency  
Act with determination, 
promote exchange and 
integration, gain the 
consent and 
collaboration of others  
Deal with situations with a 
broad and cross -cutting 
perspective, identifying 
interrelations between the 
different aspects and the 
most effective approaches  
EXECUTION  
 PROACTIVITY  
 SPEED  
 SYSTEMIC 
VISION  
Planning and  
organisation  
People management  
and development  
Teamwork  
Customer care and results 
achievement  
Respect of  
rules and procedures  
Initiative and  
decisions  
Communication and 
negotiation  
Entrepreneurship  
and business  
orientation  
Relationships and  
knowledge networks  
Growth  
orientation  
Open to change  
Problem  
management  
Strategic thinking  
 
Creativity and  
innovation  
Analysis and overview  
 
Learning and knowledge  
application  
Technological  
orientation  
Communication and  
presentation  
Written  
communication  
Adherence to  
principles and values  
“Diversity and inclusion”  
New cross -cutting skill  
Skills evaluated  
in the Performance Review  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
95 
  
• [GRI 404 -2]  Managerial Development : with the aim of identifying and enhancing current and future Company 
managerial assets through a series of ad hoc processes and plans to assess the potential future usability of staff in 
managerial roles. In addition, to “protect” the staff base with skills which are critical and/or exposed to “market risk”, 
particularly young graduates hired by the Company in the last seven years, personalised paths with remuneration 
measures and valuable training initiatives have been  defined and put in place. When filling organizational positions, 
TIM favors internal promotions identified using the succession planning system: each potential internal candidate’s 
suitability is assessed both for filling specific organizational roles and  for their growth towards more complex roles. 
Recourse to the external market is made for specific positions of particular corporate interest, considered "core" but 
difficult to cover with internal resources.  
 
[GRI 404 -3] Percentage of employees receiving periodic performance and professional development reviews  
 2019  2018  2017  
Domestic BU  97.9%  99.9%  99.7%  
Brazil BU  97.8%  98.0%  94.5%  
 
 
• [GRI 404 -2] Self-engagement Map (SEM) : in 2019, this new assessment tool, that detects the level of engagement of 
the individual, has been applied to target TIM S.p.A. millennials (approximately 300 people) by registering a 
redemption level of 100%.  
• Skill Assessment : is an online assessment tool, which makes it possible to focus – in a very short time and with large 
numbers – on a picture of the population in terms of skills, knowledge and motivation, useful for the timely detection 
of training needs in support of org anizational changes and changes in business skills. Skill Assessment projects in 2019 
involved around 1,500 people in the Chief Technology and Innovation Office and Procurement. Mapping of 5G and 
Cloud skills in the professional roles impacted by the new t echnology in both commercial and technical areas 
(involving about 2,800 people) has also begun.  
Development and skill activities  in Bra zil  
[GRI 404 -2] [GRI 404 -3] In 2019, in alignment with the Group approach and skills model, TIM Brasil implemented 
various programs and initiatives to support skills evolution, people development and employee engagement.  
 
• Onboarding programs : Also considering the high turnover ratio of the Brazilian labour market, TIM Bra sil focus on 
boarding processes has been highly maintained. In 2019, the “Evolution” training program introduced a new 
onboarding approach for sales force employees and managers as well.  
• Performance Management : TIM Bra sil implemented its 2019 performance mana gement cycle, involving the whole 
company, starting introducing a customized and differentiated approach for different areas of the Company, and also 
introducing a new innovative tool “Mais Feedback” to promote and encourage continuous feedback culture.  
• Managerial Development : TIM Brasil Succession system has started to be updated in the 4Q 2019 in order to align the 
high rate of managerial turnover and to evaluate readiness and development gaps. In 2019, TIM Brasil continued 
favoring internal managerial su ccession (around 60% of successions have been identified within the internal 
workforce) in alignment with its Recruiting Policies and before resorting to the external market.  
• Internal & External Recruiting : TIM Brasil recruiting policy continued enabling i nternal recruiting opportunities as part 
of its HR practices, achieving in 2019 the goal of 40% of overall (employees + managers) vacancies coverage with 
internal workforce rotation.  
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
96 
 Training  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 404]  [GRI 404 -2] The transformation of the TLC industry towards digital 
company models, the technological evolution of infrastructure and market challenges linked to the development of new 
digital and innovative services are all part of an employment market undergoing pro found transformation. At the TIM 
Academy, systems and methods of acquiring, disseminating, sharing and managing knowledge were strengthened and 
developed in 2019 to encourage organizational learning and improve skills in the changing technological and busi ness 
context.  
In August 2019 an Expansion Contract was signed with the trade unions and the Ministry of Labour, under which all TIM 
employees will be involved in a training and retraining plan broken down into individual projects, so they can acquire new 
and wider technical and professional skills.  
 
Training Program  
One of the pillars of the People's Plan is a continuous training program  to support the digitization process and update 
skills.  
The main areas of activity are:  
• Digital skills development  
• Re-skilling and internalisation  
• Management education  
• Language training  
• Institutional and corporate culture  
• Training plan for young staff:  
In keeping with the identified program definition drivers1, the TIM Academy platform, which is always available with multi -
device access, presents learning plans that are customized to the person and role, with an open training offer with guided 
self-learning courses on specialised skills and professions.  
Digital  skills development  
TIM Academy developed a digital course on target population for all Group employees. The latter began by completing a 
self assessment of their knowledge and were then offered a training course certified by the EU's DigComp standard.2 The 
project ended in March 2019, having trained about 30,000 people and awarded more than 15,000 "open badges".  
The project "Technological and Business Scenarios - The Gigabit society" has been launched with an initial online module 
on the "agile"  methodolo gies and new organizational logistics necessary for the effective management of innovation in 
the company.  
 
Re-skilling and internalisation  
Wholesale Operations and Caring courses were introduced in order to adapt the role with a focus on strengthening new  
skills both in terms of technology/market/products/services and aptitudes required by market evolution.  
Training projects have been launched to support the internalisation of the following roles: On -field technician in 
Wholesale Operations and ICT Contro l Room and customer supervision in Chief Revenue Office and Network & Service 
Engineering and application testing and management in Chief Technology and Innovation Office.  
In addition, the mapping of 5G skills (Skill Assessment) in the professional functio ns and roles impacted by the new 
technology in both commercial and technical areas has been carried out.  
  
 
                                                                 
1 Which are:  
• re-qualification and the enhancement of professional skills;  
• development of digital skills of the entire company population;  
• evolution of managerial profiles.  
2 The DigComp model is a common European reference framework for the development of digital expertise.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
97 
  
 
Management education  
• [GRI 404 -2] Coaching/Mentorship : in-person and online coaching courses were launched to support managerial roles.  
• Online library : all managers have access to various online libraries so they can make full use of videos, webinars and 
material from speakers from Italy and abroad on various topics.  
 
Language training  
[GRI 404 -2] English@TIM : Online language training courses personalised based on existing knowledge, aimed at helping 
people learn English, with a view to the digital transformation.   
 
Institutional and corporate culture  
[GRI 404 -2] This training aims to support the transformation of the organisation culture in l ine with the evolution of the 
social, environmental and economic context and at disseminating knowledge of the content required by the legal 
formalities. Institutional and mandatory training for all personnel thus aims to raise awareness and spread knowled ge on 
content from the Compliance (on topics related to the Market Abuse Regulation and ISO 37001 on Anti -corruption), 
Health, Safety & Environment, Regulatory and Equivalence departments in addition to the Privacy and ITS Compliance 
(for topics related to  the GPDR 1and MIMIP2 departments ). 
All personnel operating in the Security Department of TIM are trained and updated on national and European Community 
legislation and regulations governing company safety, and carry out  their duties in complete compliance with all current 
company procedures and policies in force.  Security personnel do not perform crowd control duties nor escort people or 
valuables, which is instead a task institutionally assigned to the police force.  
 
Training plan for young staff  
In 2019 the training plan for young people hired (GRAD Program) was launched to improve knowledge of the Company 
and its processes as well as support the development of skills for certain roles. A similar course dedicated to t he 
approximately 300 people under the age of 40 in the Company (TIME Program), to strengthen specialist skills and develop 
managerial skills.  
 
Training in Brazil  
In Brazil, as for the domestic market, the purpose and the commitment of TIM Bra sil in 2019 has been to support the 
evolution and the transformation of the Company toward the Digital Telco Model. Specific focus on new capabilities 
development as well as a strong effort in improving skills alignment in the operations departments has been developed  
throughout the year.  
The approach has been to strengthen and spread digital and social learning approach as well as developing specific 
blended program for selected target and themes. The main development and training programs and initiatives are listed 
below:  
 
For all employees  
• Key institutional and compliance issues : all employees attended courses on key institutional and compliance issues, 
such as ethics, human rights, sustainability and environmental policies, safety, security and anti -corruption policies in 
alignment with Groups guidelines and international and na tional laws.  
• Digital Learning Roadmap : individual and collective digital learning roadmaps have been developed, within a new 
online learning platform “Talent HUB Aprendizagem”. Starting from the understanding of development gaps analyses 
within the perfor mance management system, the roadmap focuses on strategy driven themes such as digital 
mindset, new capabilities, innovation, accountability, customer experience, execution, collaborative networking 
thinking, change management (with around 100 “change agen ts” being trained to spread digital transformation 
throughout TIM).  
  
                                                                 
1 GDPR: general regulation on data protection.  
2  minimum privacy and security measures.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
98 
 • Vertical Contents : specific physical training based on needs analysis results and on new capability needs. The 
programs involved different operational areas such as engineering, IT, Netw ork, Marketing and Security. TIM Talks : 
The program is about a week of people development dedicated to all employees, with the involvement of human 
resources, business managers and external experts who offered employees across the country a unique self -
development experience with workshops and lectures, particularly on business, inclusion & diversity, change culture, 
careers, leadership and human development. The program also offered dedicated content for employees' children, 
with lectures and workshops on careers, social networking and business. The program is led at a whole country level 
(15 locations around Brazil) and involved around 3.000 employee s and managers for over 24,000 training hours 
around the country.  
Managerial development and education:  
• Innovation Forum : Specific program dedicated to all company managers, based on the big innovation challenges of 
the industry, and strongly related to the industrial plan drivers. The program involved more than 550 managers 
physically and around 250 in live  streaming, with attendance of the main players of the TLC Market.  
 
For managerial and employee sales force:  
• Evolution Program  (Consumer & Business): TIM stores learning journey, designed in an innovative way, with the 
concept of a great game. Providing greater engagement, new knowledge with a different 'footprint' and greater value 
for the company. Unique, personalized, and huma nized experience. The program involved more than 800 sales agent 
and 260 store managers . In the last quarter of 2019 the program has been enlarged to the Business area.  
 
For young people joining the company:  
• Young apprentice & stageur program : TIM offered specific on boarding and physical and digital training activities to 
more than 300 among young apprentice and stageurs.  
 
Furthermore, a major engagement initiative, Multipicando Ideas , has been confirmed and relaunched in 2019, involving 
employees offering  training and development to other employees, acting as “multipliers” for specific themes related to 
business, procedures, tools and systems. The program involved around 120 “multipliers” and around 60 selected issues.  
Finally,  at TIM Brasil all employees  attended courses on key institutional and compliance issues, such as ethics, human 
rights, sustainability and environmental policies, safety, security and anti -corruption policies in alignment with Group 
guidelines and international and national laws.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
99 
 Group training figures  
[GRI 404 -1] The tables below show Group training hours by professional category and gender. The appendix contains a 
comparative focus for 2018 and 2017 (TIM S.p.A. only), along with a breakdown at TIM Group level of the most important  
training strands (environment, health and safety, human rights, anti -corruption, privacy, sustainability).  
2019  Hours  Per capita hours  Coverage1 
Total  1,457,274.79  25.69  96.5 
Senior Managers  8,193.61  14.51  89.95  
of whom men  6,751.91  14.41  89.0  
of whom women  1,441.70  15.0 94.7 
Middle Managers  77,060.34  17.53  96.13  
of whom men  55,457.64  17.56  95.2 
of whom women  21,602.70  17.44  98.5 
Office Staff  1,372,020.84  26.51  96.64  
of whom men  879,099.71  27.18  96.8 
of whom women  492,921.13  25.39  96.5 
 
 
[GRI 404-1] The Group invested 10 million euros in training courses in 2019, equal to a cost of 173.43 euros per capita . The 
value shown only takes into account the amount spent on training courses and does not include the personal benefit 
obtained by course pa rticipants and the positive impact on TIM’s performance. The training courses are therefore worth 
more than they cost to deliver2.  
 
Remuneration policy  
[GRI 102 -37] The Group’s remuneration policy is aimed at ensuring the company remains competitive in t he labour 
market, and at achieving the Company’s strategic objectives by pursuing sustainable long -term results in line with TIM’s 
business risk management policy.  
The primary purpose of TIM’s remuneration structure is to balance fixed and variable remune ration and enhance the 
benefit and welfare system, with the aim of increasing recipients’ satisfaction at a sustainable cost.  
The components of individual remuneration are:  
• fixed remuneration  
• short -term variable remuneration  
• long -term variable remuneration  
• benefit and welfare.  
 
The fixed component  takes into account the breadth and strategic nature of the position held and is dictated by 
performance in the reference markets.  
Periodic comparisons of internal remunerations and external market remuneration practices allow the establishment of 
the remuneration strategy to be adopted; TIM’s comparative remuneration market is Italian companies of comparable 
size and/or market capita lization, and international telecoms and media companies.  
Given the need to be selective when making changes to remuneration, especially the fixed component, this will concern 
cases of high quality staff where there is strong misalignment with the referen ce market average.  
                                                                 
1 Coverage refers to the percentage of participants compared to the total, i.e. the % of human resources of the Group who took part in at least 
one training session compared to the total number of human resources in each individual category. Coverage and per  capita are calculated on 
the average number of staff in 2019.  
 
2 The figures relating to training investments and costs per capita for TIM S.p.A. only are available in the appendix to this c hapter, after the training 
number tables for TIM S.p.A.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
100 
 In addition to changes to fixed remuneration, during salary reviews, other variable remuneration instruments (Lump Sum 
bonus) can be put in place - normally excluding Senior Management with Strategic Responsibilities - to reward 
outstan ding performance or particularly good results during extraordinary initiatives not part of normal activities.  
 
The short -term variable remuneration  (MBO) on the other hand aims to establish a transparent link between pay and the 
degree of fulfilment of ann ual targets. To this end, the targets were fixed according to quantitative indicators that 
represent and are consistent with the strategic priorities and business plan, measured according to pre -established and 
objective criteria.  
The MBO 2019 system prov ides for a “gate” objective made up of the company indicator (Group EBITDA), a bonus access 
condition linked to all the incentive objectives; although it is for all personnel, the objective prize for 2019 has differen t 
minimum levels for eligibility, to ta ke into account the different level of challenge required of management.  
With regard to the remaining targets set in MBO, for direct reporting to the Chief Executive Officer, the focus is on the 
economic and financial objectives attributed to the Chief Ex ecutive Officer and a strategic objective linked to the Business 
Plan has been introduced; for the other managers, the most significant economic and financial objectives are considered, 
to give adequate space to the specific role objectives, which are in a ny case objectively measurable.  
Finally, it should be noted that in 2019 Performance Management was exceeded as an objective within the MBO system; 
the evaluation of managerial behavior is in any case ensured as part of the corresponding monitoring proces s, parallel to 
and independent of the MBO system.  
For those who report directly to Executive Directors, the bonus target values are set in continuity with 2018 and are up to 
50% of the fixed component. For the remaining incentivised staff, the target value s are set - based on the role complexity 
- at up to 30% of the fixed component.   
With regard to the pay -out of the incentive system, it should be noted that in 2019 an innovative element was introduced 
in the form of a corrective factor to reduce the pay -out, aimed at strengthening the culture of sensitivity among 
Management to the Company's internal control and risk management issues: the multiplier is in fact related to the failure 
to implement corrective actions/remediation plans defined in the Control Functions.  
The accrued bonus is fully liquidated in cash form, at the time that the results achieved are confirmed1. For 2019, the 
possibility has been introduced on an experimental basis for executives to choose between paying the accrued premium 
on a pa y-as-you-go basis and paying the entire amount – or part of it – to their supplementary pension fund.  
Long -term variable remuneration  is aimed at promoting consistency between the interests of management and those 
of shareholders, through sharing of the b usiness risk.  
On July 24, 2018, the Board of Directors approved the 2018 -2020 LTI Plan and Performance Share plan, with a three -year 
vesting period2, and a two -year lock -up. This Plan is reserved to the Chief Executive Officer and owners of managerial 
positions with a major impact on company results. The Plan is subject to the achievement of the performance condition 
linked to the increase in both the share value and economic and financial indicators.  
For both the MBO system and long -term plans, a contrac tual claw -back3 mechanism is in force, which allows for retrieval 
of the variable remuneration paid out to Executive Directors and managers with strategic responsibilities starting from 
2016. As defined in the policy, the claw -back clause can be triggered in the three years following payment of the sums.  
  
                                                                 
1 To prov ide accurate information on the relationship between Senior Management remuneration and that of the Company population [GRI 102 -
38], [GRI 102 -39], in accordance with the "Policy for Information Classification and Management in terms of confidentiality", TI M provides some 
information, useful for the calculation, in the usual table form, in the Remuneration Report and in the Annual Financial Repo rt. 
2  Vesting period is the period that separates the time of the Plan assignment from that of the Performance Shares accrual, corr esponding to the 
years 2018, 2019 and 2020 . 
3  aa contractual clause allowing variable remuneration paid to be recovered in the ev ent that the disbursement was a result of malicious or 
grossly negligent behavior of the executives involved, or in the event of a data formulation error that led to a balance shee t restatement.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
101 
 Benefits and welfare  constitute non -monetary elements of remuneration.  
In particular:  
• benefits are assets made available to beneficiaries, depending on their role and are aimed at improving their well -
being; these services generate an economic value separate from both fixed salary and other forms of variable 
remuneration;  
• welfare is the pa ckage of non -monetary services available to the entire corporate population regardless of role, aimed 
at increasing individual and family well -being of all employees.  
The following are the main objective types linked to sustainability in the company MBO s ystem  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Reference stakeholders  Targets subject to incentives  % of managers  
(to whom the target applies)  
Customers  Customer satisfaction  index  54%  
Quality of the service perceived by consumer 
and business customer  28%  
Quality of the service perceived by  other 
national fixed and mobile telephony operators  17% 
Human Resources  Health and safety of employees  5% 
Training and professional growth programs  12%  
Welfare activities (People Caring)  
and employees' welfare  15%  
Environment  Energy saving and compaction plans  7% 
Peace, justice and strong 
institutions  Creating Value for the Company  41%  
Quality and timeliness of corporate reporting  2% 
The Community  Quality of initiatives, events and corporate 
projects  2% TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
102 
 Remuneration policy in Brazil  
 
As for the Italian remuneration policy, Brazil is also divided in four major groups: fixed remuneration, short -term variable 
remuneration, long -term variable remuneration and benefit and welfare. The remuneration policy has some points in 
common with tha t of Brazil.  
 
The fixed component takes into account  the breadth and strategic nature of the position held and is dictated by 
performance in the reference markets. Periodically, internal and external comparisons are made to ensure market 
competitiveness about compensation.  
In addition to changes in fixed re muneration, during salary reviews, other variable compensation instruments (bonus / 
salary increases) can be put in place to reward / recognize outstanding performances.  
The short -term variable remuneration (MBO) on the other hand aims to establish a trans parent link between pay and the 
degree of fulfilment of annual targets. To this end, the targets were set according to quantitative indicators that represent  
and are consistent with the strategic priorities and the business plan, measured according to pre -established criteria and 
objectives.  
 
As usual, the MBO 2019 system provides for a “gate” objective, composed of the EBITDA indicator as a condition of access 
to the bonus, applied indiscriminately to all participants in the plan.  
There are corporate, departmental, and functional goals in the MBO. For 2019, the functional and departmental weighting 
were reduced to give greater importance to corporate targets.  
As objectives linked directly to business sustainability we can mention two main ones: “Satisfa ction Survey”, attributed 
to 98% of the company's executives and the Digital Transformation, attributed to almost 90% of the participants.  
The accrued bonus is fully liquidated, in cash form, when the results achieved are confirmed.  
Long -term variable remu neration is aimed at promoting consistency between the interests of management and those 
of shareholders, through sharing of the business risk.  
On April 19, 2019, the Board of Directors approved the 2018 -2020 LTI Plan, Performance Share plan, with a three -year 
vesting period, and a 12-year lock -up. This Plan is reserved to the Chief Executive Officer and owners of managerial 
positions with a major impact on company results. The Plan is subject to the achievement of the performance condition 
linked to the in crease in both the share value and economic and financial indicators.  
The benefits and welfare constitute the non -monetary element of remuneration. The Company also confirmed a 
substantial investment in terms of dedicated economic resources for 2020, too.  
In particular:  
• benefits are assets made available to beneficiaries, depending on their role and are aimed at improving their well -
being; these services generate an economic value separate from both fixed salary and other forms of variable 
remuneration;  
• welfare is the package of non -monetary services available to the entire corporate population regardless of role, aimed 
at increasing individual and family well -being of all employees.  
Company car, extra day off based on years worked or on birthdays, cell pho ne plan, gym incentive program, health care 
plan and retirement plan are examples of benefits and welfare. The company also has a flexible scheme that enable the 
management level decides their own mix of benefits. These can be balanced, picking from a menu  of options that 
“upgrade” or “downgrade” the default benefits, using a flex fund that represents a percentage of their salary.  
The focus of benefits strategy balance innovation, market tendency, employee’s needs and smart cost that comes with 
tax and adm inistrative incentives, partnerships or using the company's own business platforms.  
  
                                                                 
1 Vesting period  is the period that separates the time of the  Plan assignment from that of the Performance Shares accrual, corresponding 
to the years 2018, 2019 and 2020.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
103 
 Industrial relations  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 402] The 2019 materiality analysis confirmed managing employment 
relationships as a material topic for the whole Group. [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 402] TIM has always 
entertained open and transparent relationships with trade unions and workers’ representatives, in the belief that it is only 
through continuous, constructive dialog that the best possible balance can be struck with respect to the expectations of 
all stakeholders.  [GRI 102 -41] All Group workers, both in Italy and in Brazil, are cover ed by Collective Labour Agreements 
reached with trade union organizations and all personnel are guaranteed the possibility of attending union meetings, in 
terms of paid leave and company space to enable them to be held, as well as of freely participating i n consultation 
procedures for the election of trade union representatives .In no Group operations is the right to union participation at risk 
or disputed. Amongst other things, union agreements lay down the ways in which these rights can be enforced and 
establish the bodies in charge of controlling compliance therewith. [GRI 402 -1] TIM takes care to listen to and engage with 
workers' representatives, including through reorganization processes.The search for constant, constructive and dynamic 
dialog has encou raged, over time, significant agreements between the social partners, aimed at balancing both business 
needs and those of the people who work in the Company.  
[GRI 408 -1] [GRI 409 -1] Collaboration with workers’ representatives, together with internal contr ol systems and 
procedures, has meant that no violation or risk has been reported with regards to the application of the Group’s Social 
Responsibility policies protecting the essential rights of employment, such as the ban on forced or child labor1. 
The Ind ustrial Relations model   
TIM has developed its industrial relations model over time to be geared towards ensuring constant dialog and constructive 
engagement aimed at promoting the appropriate participation of trade union representatives and organizations . 
The structure of TIM’s current industrial relations model, formalized with the trade unions in the Protocol of January 11, 
2019, is aimed at enhancing collaboration on matters required by law and collective bargaining, in the areas of 
information, consul tation and negotiation, both at national and regional level.   
At a local level, there is a widespread presence of trade union representatives in all the Italian regions, which fosters act ive 
decentralized participation allowing the specific regional needs  and opportunities to be better understood and combined 
by both parties.  Today, 396 TIM people hold the office of trade union representative.  TIM recognizes specific prerogatives 
defined by company agreements in force at the time for union representative s in the company, in addition to the 
protections and rights provided by law and the TLC national labor agreement.  
Due to the organizational complexity and multi -regional presence, trade union representatives elected a national 
representative body - in line  with the Consolidated Law on Representation January 10, 2014 - called the National Trade 
Union Representatives Coordinator, delegated to manage negotiations with the company for matters of a national 
nature.  
 
The industrial relations system is set up with  a focus on preventive phases of information and union discussions, also 
through specific corporate bodies (in the form of permanent joint commissions ) with the task of the technical 
development of specific subjects such as training and occupational health  and safety, welfare and equal opportunities.  
This system is based on a widespread knowledge of the company’s strategies, as well as a particular focus on the 
protection of collective interests and the professional development of workers, enhancing the dia log that takes place 
both nationally and locally.  
 
  
                                                                 
1 [GRI 103 -3:Management Approach] [GRI 408]  In terms of child labor, the policies allow for some completely legal exceptions, such as, for 
example , training contracts for which incentives are provided by the Brazilian government.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
104 
 Exit flexibility instruments - the February 2019 agreements  
On February 26, 2019, the application agreements for the two -year period 2019 -2020, pursuant to Art. 4, paragraphs 1 to 
7 of Law No. 92/2012 to  incentivise the departure of 4,300 TIM S.p.A. employees meeting the necessary requirements.  
In particular, the measure is aimed at employees who qualify for either old -age or early retirement by:  
• May 31, 2024 and give their consent to end the employment relationship in 2019;  
• December 31, 2025 and give their consent to end the employment relationship with effect by November 30, 2020. 
Particular attention is paid to the TIM people with serious illnesses: the company will start to assess access to 
'isopensio ne' (early retirement) in 2019.  
For joining employees, TIM S.p.A. undertakes to pay INPS a monthly amount corresponding to the pension that would be 
due to them under current rules, up to the first effective pension date, old -age or early retirement, and to pay the related 
contribution t o the institution until the minimum requirements have been reached, in accordance with the law and 
administrative provisions of these explanatory notes.   
For 2019 the agreement provided for 2,250 instalments, all of which have been implemented.  
The challenge of technological transformation - The Expansion Contract  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 402]  The acceleration in technological transformation in the 
Telecommunications Sector, in which TIM operates, has created the need to address, at comp any level, integrated 
organizational review activities, digitization of processes and adaptation of the skills and capabilities of all staff.  
In this context, as part of the negotiations for the renewal of the second -level contract, the Social Parties defi ned a set of 
agreements seeking to combine the achievement of the objectives set out in the Industrial Plan with the safeguarding of 
workers' needs, including the Expansion Contract (hereinafter the Contract), introduced by Law 58/2019 to support the 
techn ological development processes of companies with more than 1,000 employees.  
The Contract (signed in August 2019 by the government) is an innovative tool that combines the needs of efficiency with 
those of development, allowing companies to adapt the skills  of their staff and acquire new ones from the external 
market.  
TIM and the trade unions have recognized the need and urgency to jointly address, within a framework of clear and 
shared rules, the effects of the ongoing digital revolution, implementing all actions that can both protect jobs and help 
the evolution of professional skills.  
The Contract provides for the entry into the Company, during the two years 2019 -2021, of 600 new permanent employees 
with ICT -related profiles and different levels of profess ional seniority.  
Another important theme contained in the Contract is related to professional retraining and consequent training for TIM 
people in line with the company's objectives, enhancing existing skills, replacing obsolete ones and developing new one s. 
The expected reduction in working hours is 6% or 1.9% depending on the different sectors involved. This is a vertical 
reduction, that is, on full days.  
Supplementary Contract 2019  
In 2019, negotiations continued on  the second contractual level of TIM S.p.A. These negotiations sought to identify, in 
compliance with reciprocal roles and shared rules, instruments and measures to combine the principles of productive and 
organizational efficiency and professional develop ment, achieving them within an overall sustainable balance. Many in -
depth analysis and discussion sessions were held with the trade unions, in the context of which a substantial part of the 
company's supplementary contract was agreed, on various topics suc h as:   
• Work -life balance: additional days off, paid leave, Agile Work, Remote Work for Caring Agents working in large cities, 
unpaid leave, leave to be made up for with overtime, flexible hours, paid leave days to make up for the holidays falling 
on Sunda ys in 2019.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
105 
 • Development of people and skills: implementation in the three years 2019 -2021 of a total of 1,580 level changes and 
400 actions to increase the working hours of the 25% of staff in part -time employment. TIM staff also received a one -
off payme nt and paid leave days in appreciation of their contribution to the implementation of the company's 
strategy.  
Performance Bonus for the three years 2020 -2022  
The Company and Trade Unions have reached an agreement that defines the structure of the 2020 -2022  Performance 
Bonus for TIM Group companies.  
The agreement provides for the option to convert the bonus amounts into welfare benefits.  
The agreement, concluded as part of the second level negotiation process, is based on economic indicators (40% EBITDA 
and 40% Service Revenues and quality - 20% Customer Satisfaction Index -). 
The targets recognize the contribution of workers to the achievement of the expected earnings and quality results.  
The average value of the Bonus for TIM S.p.A. was also defined, correlated and commensurate with the achievement of 
the objectives, with an average payout for the achievement of the target of 1,350 euros for 2020, 1,400 euros for 2021 
and 1,450 euros for 2 022.  
The parties also agreed the Welfare option, whereby people can choose to take advantage of all or part of the bonus in 
Welfare services, benefiting from total tax relief. The list of services includes, among others, kindergartens, school fees 
and boo ks, elderly care, health care, pension funds, mortgages, vouchers, sports and leisure, which are only part of the 
welfare component in which TIM invests.  
A specific joint consultancy body has been set up to manage the agreement, which will be notified of the goals each year, 
derived from the budget process, in accordance with the Industrial Plan; this body is tasked, inter alia, with analyzing the 
types of services accessible through welfare.  
Work -life balance  
• During 2019, the Company and Trade Unions sign ed specific agreements, intended to extend the emergency 
measures to improve the working conditions of the 700 TIM employees in Genoa and province following the collapse 
of the Morandi bridge1. One year after the signing of the memorandum of understanding,  the extraordinary temporary 
measures were extended to lessen any inconvenience for employees both in their home -work commutes and in 
carrying out their professional activities. TIM's intention is thus to respond fully and practically to the state of 
emerg ency, at least until the completion of the new bridge.  
• For staff in Rome and Bari – cities particularly affected by the project to rationalize the company's offices – the 
possibility of extending the number of days of agile work from home has been confirme d, until the operational start 
of the new company agreement, in order to facilitate work -life balance.  
 
Industrial Relations activities in Brazil  
In Brazil, in 2019, TIM held a total of 19 meetings with the union representatives committee. The committee represent 
the 27 unions in the country.  
 
In the first half of the year, the 2019 Profit Sharing Program was negotiated, which established the 4 goa ls and targets 
for the year. The award was also redefined by the result obtained in 2018, the increase of the program's target award to 
2.3 salaries and extinguished the performance management link as the program's premium accelerator.  
The negotiation was an excellent solution for recomposing the premium payment in view of the expectations of all, being 
very well evaluated by the unions and well received by the employees, showing TIM's recognition of the efforts made in 
2018.  
In the second half of 2019, the  renewal of the Collective Bargaining Agreement 2019/2020 was negotiated.  
                                                                 
1On August 14, 2018, the Genoa bridge, known as the Morandi bridge, partially collapsed, causing severe transport problems for  the local 
population.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
106 
 The renewal of the Collective Bargaining Agreement 2019/2020 dealt only with the economic clauses of the 2018/2020 
Agreement, which in addition to dealing with salary floors, salary readjustment, also readjust benefits such as Food 
Allowance, Day Care Assistance etc.  
Adjustments were made above the inflation rate of the country forecast for the period. This rate is used in Brazil as a 
reference for the adjustment of wages and economi c clauses (was 3.28% between August 2018 and September 2019 
period).  
Another relevant action has been the readjustment applied to store employees, far exceeding the expectation (the 
inflationary readjustment index) as this readjustment was 8%. This strate gy led to increased competitiveness in the hiring 
market for the store segment.  
 
The Collective Bargaining Agreement was approved at assemblies in all 26 states of the country, with a 98% approval 
rating of 2,000 voting employees.  
 
TIM Brasil maintained it s model of proximity in the constant relationship with unions throughout the year, which 
facilitates the moment of renewal of the agreement and a relationship of building solutions aimed at its employees.  
4.5% of employees are members of unions. Collective  bargaining agreements covered 100% of employees.  
Health and safety  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 403]  The 2019 materiality analysis confirmed the protection of health and safety 
as a material topic for the entire Group.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 403]  Within the Italy, the regulatory provisions for occupational health and 
safety, in addition to defining the necessary criteria for risk identification and assessment, provide that adequate 
participation and consultation of workers throu gh the Workers’ Safety Representatives has been implemented.  
The Health and Safety at Work Management System implemented by TIM ensures that the Company complies in full 
with national legislation and agreements reached with trade unions; it also establish es numerous initiatives aimed at 
ensuring comparison tables are put in place to maintain high safety standards.  
TIM’s Safety Management System Model  involves the full involvement of all players that participate in the safety process: 
company management, operational coordination figures, appointed doctors, workers and Workers’ Safety 
Representatives (WSR).  
[GRI 403 -1] In relation to the latter, the le gislation requires that they are or appointed by the workers within the framework 
of the Company Trade Unions. In this sense, the percentage of covered employees is 100%. [GRI 403 -4] The number and 
method of designation or election of workers’ safety repre sentatives, together with the salaried working hours and the 
tools used to fulfil their duties are agreed during the collective bargaining process.  
[GRI 403 -4] the corporate relationship model in terms of safety, which has always been based on participatio n logic, 
includes about 80 Workers' Representatives for Safety throughout the country, who support five Committees made up 
of a mix of company/trade union members with specific workers’ health and safety functions. These Committees present 
at national and local level, according to the agreements stipulated with the trade union organizations, play a participatory 
and collaborative role aimed at guaranteeing joint analyses and discussion by the company party and the union party of 
all matters relating to heal th and safety at work, on a national and local level.  
In this context, the “Health, Safety & Environment” (HSE) department supports Company organization in the 
management of health, safety and environmental issues by assessing risks and identifying the mo st appropriate 
prevention and protection measures and in line with technological development.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
107 
 The identification and assessment of risks found at the Company, which is the priority activity of the preventive actions, 
is ensured through constant oversigh t of company processes and their evolution in close connection with the 
management lines. These activities are performed by specialized internal staff capable of conducting instrumental 
analyses and surveys on safety in the workplace (high and low frequenc y electromagnetic fields, noise, vibrations, natural 
radioactivity, lighting, micro -climate, manual handling of loads, etc.).  
The control measures applied to eliminate or contain the risks include:  
• numerous health and safety training programs, differentia ted according to the risks and professional profiles found 
at the Company;  
• the latest generation protection and/or collective equipment and devices often designed ad hoc in collaboration with 
the most important multi -nationals on the market;  
• any organizati onal arrangements necessary, implemented in collaboration with the lines, which can guarantee an 
acceptable level of risk, where it cannot be eliminated.  
The most significant performance indicators to measure the effectiveness of the actions adopted includ e the outcomes 
of the accidents analysis, which generates improvement plans defined on the basis of the causes that led to the events 
and that can lead to the updating of the Company’s risk assessment.  
[GRI 403 -3] Work activities are classified at low and medium risk levels, in line with the ATECO classification criteria of the 
National Institute of Statistics; there are no high -risk classified activities in TIM S.p.A. or the other Group subsidiaries.  
Specialist activities also continued during 2019 for upd ating the risk identification and assessment process in line with 
changes in organisation and procedure linked to the management of prevention aspects.  
Monitoring campaigns with instrumental surveys focused in particular on  physical agents such as: Indoor and outdoor 
noise, noise from electromagnetic fields, indoor pollution. Following the assessment of work -related stress risk carried 
out in 2018 (in line with the three -yearly frequency provided for in the INAIL Guidelines) , the design of the related 
improvement actions was started. In relation to training, work continued with technical operational personnel, 
increasingly focused on the application of new technologies and new operational scenarios. With reference to accident s, 
careful analysis of events and where necessary potential identification of corrective actions continued and in addition 
direct involvement of the lines affected and of the HR department was reinforced for greater synergy.  
As part of our experimentation  with digital applications as new technologies for Safety issues, in collaboration with the 
technical lines, the Q -Pole App and the X -Pole tool used for assessing of piling conditions before doing work at heights 
and the Confined Environments App were rele ased and made fully operational, so that technical personnel (both public 
and company workers) can do the preliminary tests required by regulations on access to underground structures in 
confined environments. The App B -Safe for managing first aid during s olo work is still in its test phase.  
In November the SicurinTIM project was launched, designed to promote health and safety in the workplace within the 
Company. Through initiatives and events promoted over 12 months, it aims to strengthen a culture of prev ention that 
encourages the adoption of virtuous behavior inside and outside the Company. The project is directly supported by the 
Head of Human Resources & Organisation, as well as by the Safety Steering Committee, set up in April and made up of 
top manage ment personnel who, in just a few months, have already made important common commitments, including 
reducing the number of accidents.  
  
 
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
108 
 Injuries and occupational diseases  
[GRI 403 -2] The data and the main accident indices for TIM S.p.A. and Brazil  
 
TIM S.p.A.  12/31/2019  12/31/2018  12/31/2017  
Number of accidents (excluding in progress) *  381 424 481 
Severity index**            0.20    0.18 0.20  
Frequency rate**             6.42    6.72 7.67 
Average injury duration in days1 30.72    145.07  139.81  
Unproductivity index*             1.23    1.13 1.26 
Accidents per 100 workers  0.91 0.98  1.08 
* Starting from 2018 the number of injuries is presented net of dressed injuries (which involve only a dressing with work bei ng immediately 
resumed): 6 cases in  2018 and 9 cases in 2019.  
** The severity, frequency and unproductivity indexes are respectively:  
- the number of conventional working days lost due to accident per thousand hours worked  
- the number of accidents per million hours worked  
- the number of hours lost due to accidents per thousand hours worked  
  
    
Brazil BU  12/31/2019  12/31/2018  12/31/2017  
Number of accidents (excluding in progress)  17 13 12 
Severity index              0.01    0.01 0.01 
Frequency index              1.09    0.88  0.74 
Average  injury duration in days1            13.53    95 84 
Unproductivity index              0.12    0.01 0.06  
Accidents per 100 workers              0.07    0.14 0.13 
 
 
TIM Group  12/31/2019  12/31/2018  12/31/2017  
Number of accidents (excluding in progress)  432 N.A. N.A. 
Severity index* 0.16 N.A. N.A. 
Frequency index  5.28 N.A. N.A. 
Average injury duration in days2 30.67  N.A. N.A. 
Unproductivity index  1.05 N.A. N.A. 
Accidents per 100 workers  0.7 N.A. N.A. 
 
In TIM S.p.A., to ensure correct management of accident events, a procedure has been put in place describing the rules 
and requirements of each subject in the “genesis” process, the management and closure of reports of incidents at work 
and/or while traveling involving workers for which companies are r equired to pay an INAIL3 premium . 
The positive trend of a reducing number of occupational accidents is confirmed in 2019, with a recorded decrease of 10% 
compared to 2018. A closer examination of the indicators shows that the decrease in the number of acci dents has led to 
a fall in the "frequency" index (from 6.72 to 6.42) and in the "ratio of accidents to 100 workers" indicator (from 0.98 to 
0.92). However, the increase in the average duration of accidents at work compared to the year before led to a sligh t 
increase in the values of other accident indicators such as the "seriousness" index (from 0.18 to 0.20) and 
"unproductiveness" index (from 1.13 to 1.23). There were no fatal accidents at work in 2019. Details on the accidents, 
occupational diseases and a bsences required by the GRI [GRI 403 -2] standard are given in the Appendix to this chapter.  
The main types of accidents identified were, in descending order: personal falls, traffic accidents, sprains/pulled muscles, 
shocks, injuries resulting from materia ls/equipment handling, crushing, injury from falling objects and other types of 
minor accidents. In relation to occupational diseases, complaints submitted to INAIL (National Institute for Insurance 
against Accidents at Work) in the reference year and subj ect to recognition procedures were taken into account. During 
                                                                 
1 In previous years the average accident duration was reported in hours.  
2 In previous years the average accident duration was reported in hours.  
3 National institute for insurance covering accidents at work.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
109 
 2019, occupational diseases reported by workers related to musculoskeletal, respiratory, auditory and 
mental/psychosomatic illnesses.  
 [GRI 403 -4] In Brazil  the collective agreements state as a rule that information must be provided on the prevention of 
accidents in the workplace and occupational diseases, and TIM complies with this practice.  
 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 403]  As regards Health & Saf ety issues in 2019, the Company made 
improvements in occupational health examination practices, with more perceived attention given to employees. The 
company also developed self -care campaigns such as Pink October and Blue November, to increase awareness o f breast 
and prostate cancer prevention. In terms of medical insurance, the Company has worked to digitize activities resulting in 
faster reimbursements to employees.  
The Company carries out the Environmental Risk Prevention Programme (PPRA) every year in line with legal 
requirements; a study conducted at TIM’s Brazil offices through on -site safety inspections, identifying the risks and control 
measures. The aim of the Medical Occupational Health Control Programme (PCMSO) is to indicate occupational health 
checks relating to any environmental risk conditions as a prerequisite for monitoring workers’ health. Moreover, an 
Internal Accident Prevention Week (SIPAT) is held each year to raise awareness among employees on Health & Safety 
related aspects.  
The inter nal committee for the prevention of accidents at work (CIPA) is made up of company representatives and 
workers based in all the regional offices of TIM, in line with the legal requirements of Order 3214/78 - Regulatory Standard 
5. With the support of CIPA,  the company sets up influenza vaccination campaigns and blood donation programs and 
promotes the adoption of healthy habits amongst employees.  
In addition, periodic audits and/or inspections are performed to assess the effectiveness of the prevention meas ures in 
processes and workplaces set up to continuously improve health and safety conditions. The Health & Safety team is 
made up of 32 members, strategically distributed in the regional offices of TIM Participações.  
 
People Caring  
The welfare model combi nes tradition and future with specific strategic and organizational awareness, which places 
welfare at the heart of the Human Resources strategy, enabling the use of services and initiatives aimed at encouraging 
company, family and social sustainability.  
Strongly focused on developing work ability (a person’s capacity to perform their work as best they can now and in the 
future, with respect to the demands of their job, regardless of their age) and engagement  to support digital 
transformation at TIM, the mo del provides for the classification of activities for 3 specific action areas:  
• Work -life balance: the set of services and initiatives to improve work/life balance;  
• Working time management: projects to enable people to gain a more digital, flexible and simple vision of work;  
• Inclusion Management: activities to place everyone in a position to give the best of their potential, identifying 
personalised solutions and recovering blocked energies and unexpressed areas of productivity.  
Inclusion is therefore a key area of TIM’s welfare system, but also the most challenging one, and it is no coincidence that 
it is also considered a profoundly identity -based and strategic lever. In fact, it clearly permeates all founding documents 
of the new organizational identit y: from the Ethics Code to the Human Rights Policy and values.  
TIM's welfare system therefore revolves around the wellbeing of the person in his or her "employee journey" and takes 
into account  the family care he or she needs time for between working and non -working life, in the awareness that 
organizational wellbeing is closely related to people's satisfaction and engagement and therefore performance.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
110 
 Work -life balance  
Work -life balance is th e first pillar of TIM’s welfare and is based on the belief that performance and organizational well -
being are connected to each other and to the organisation of family and work life. In 2017, confirmed in 2018 and 2019, 
TIM received the Family Audit certif ication, a managerial tool that aims to start a cultural shift through innovative life -
work balance initiatives, setting off a virtuous cycle of continuous improvement.  
This is why TIM established a range of services to help its people reduce their care -loads, continuing to adapt all processes 
to the new notion of family, moving from the idea of a nuclear family to the registered family which includes all of the 
employee’s family members, irrespective of blood or legal ties.  
The main services include: 7 com pany nurseries and 1 company infants’ school; 159 children registered and 355 
reimbursements for partial cover of fees for employees’ children at nurseries or for babysitting services; 41 “TIM Summer” 
campuses/camps/colleges for employees’ children for a t otal of 6,100 participants; “Mum and Dad” permits for parents 
with children up to age 11, allowing them to use permits for a few hours or entire days to offset their absence within the 
given 3 -month period; “Mum and Dad” loans for parents with children age d 0 to 11 who are eligible for loans up to a 
maximum of €2,500 for each child, around 600 reimbursements for university fees for employees’ children, 45 inter -
cultural study grants in India, China and Ireland for children with good school results. Moreover , they can enjoy a wide 
programme of agreements with external organizations (around 200) via two e -commerce portals customized for TIM.  
 
On the occasion of the recent Level II contractual agreement, the transition of flexible work from experimental to 
structural mode of work performance was defined. There are further integrated flexible work initiatives to facilitate the 
work -life balance of certain categories:  
• pregnant women (1 day more flexible work per week than generally expected);  
• new mum (1 day more f lexible work per week than is generally expected, until the sixth month after returning to work 
from maternity leave);  
• new dad (1 more day of flexible work per week than is generally expected, until the child is six months old);  
• return to duty from an illn ess for more than 30 consecutive days (1 day more flexible work per week than generally 
expected for the month following return from illness)  
Also within the Level II contractual agreement, staff have been given the possibility of clocking in electronicall y, to have 
up to 24 hours per year of recovery leave in order to facilitate the management of family and non -work commitments in 
general.  
 
The “Special Welfare” programme, as described in the paragraph on remuneration policies in this report, has offered 
management the chance to convert the bonus into services, which can be purchased through a dedicated platform or by 
requesting reimbursement of expenses already incurred, to enjoy the tax advantages offered by law.  
In 2019, a "Well -Being Project" was launc hed to raise awareness of healthy lifestyles and illness prevention, through four 
themes:  
• prevention  
• nutrition education  
• movement and physical activity  
• stress reduction  
  
In the field of prevention, the first e -learning training module, available for all on the TIM Academy platform, dealt with 
sexually transmitted illnesses.  
Finally, within the "Movement and Physical Activity" strand, a partnership with Gympass was launched, which allows 
employees with a single monthly subscription to access over 2,200 spo rts centers at affordable prices.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
111 
 Working time management  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 407]  The second pillar of TIM’s welfare initiative, which revolved around Flexible 
Work, which, under a Level II contractual agreement signed on July 18, 2019 with the trade unions, has gone from the 
experimental phase to a permanent project that allows people  to work from home or satellite offices closer to home.  
Over 23,500 employees' jobs are compatible with the Flexible Work method and they therefore constitute the pool of 
qualified persons. At 31.12.2019 about 17,000 people had joined the project.  
Between  the conclusion of the experimental mode and the activation of the structural one, a total of about 300,000 days 
were used (68% from home) with the availability of 230 satellite sites in 161 municipalities throughout the country, for a 
total of 30,768 plac es available every month. Taking into account travel avoided, over 250,000 hours of commuting were 
saved (with a corresponding quality of life improvement), amounting to over 8 million kilometers and about 1,300 tons of 
CO2 avoided.  
Another important area  of action is Mobility Management, whereby TIM helps people travel from home to work and back 
through its network of 10 mobility managers, company shuttle buses (253 trips per day to 15 company offices in five 
cities), car sharing and bicycle racks at comp any offices.  
In Brazil  the company maintained the Flex Office Program, offering employees the opportunity to balance their personal 
and professional life, by taking advantage of all the mobility the telecommunications technology has to offer. According 
to this program and based on guidelines set out in a specific policy, employees working at the headquarters are allowed 
to work remotely, from anywhere with internet access, with the same commitment they would have undertaken when 
working on company premises , while enjoying extra quality of life and productivity in their projects and activities.  
Inclusion Management  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 405] [GRI 406] [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 405] [GRI 406] [GRI 405]  
TIM's diversity & inclusion management programme aims to implement a concrete, sustainable and long -term vision for 
the company, guaranteeing equal opportunities and full respect for diversity for all the TIM Group's more than 50,000 
people. At the heart of this programme is the awar eness, gained from external and internal analysis, that an inclusive 
environment in which everyone can express their potential and uniqueness to the full is the cornerstone of people's 
performance and company growth.   
The Engagement Survey carried out in May 2019 showed that inclusion is the second top driver for getting people 
engaged. Inclusion also plays a key role in knowing how to innovate the products and services offered; anticipating market 
needs actually means going beyond the limits often generated by work routines and habits to look at the activities, 
processes and people from a unique point of view.  
In 2019, TIM was once again in the Top 100 of the Refinitiv Diversity and Inclusion Index, the most respected world ranking 
for the criterion, at 6th, making it the highest Italian company and highest telecoms company in the world. TIM’s place in 
the Refinitiv Diversity and Inclusion Index confirms the Group’s commitment to equal opportunities, non -discrimination 
and inclusion as the basis of its company strategy to improve internal expertise, organizational well -being and therefore 
company performance.  
Mel 2019 TIM was also in the Top 20 of the Diversity Brand Index which lists the brands seen as the most inclusiv e. 
The 2019 engagement survey gave the average satisfaction value of TIM people, on a scale from 1 to 5, as 3.71.  
The main areas of development for TIM’s Inclusion Management are:   
• Cultural diffusion and awareness : TIM Inclusion Week and the annual calendar of inclusion events "TIM Inclusion 
Time", launched in 2019 to ensure continuous promotion of inclusion issues (in 2019 over 200 events were held to 
spread the culture of inclusion), courses on human rights, inclusion in general and disability mana gement; launch of 
the #TIM4inclusion community; the social network campaign #TIM4inclusion (especially the video series "THE sign 
of..." which presents 5 stories of inclusion got; a specific reference to the issues of inclusion in the key organizational 
identity documents: code of ethics, human rights policy, charter of values, leadership model.  
                                                                 
1 The percentage of fully satisfied employees (4  + 5) was 56%.   TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
112 
 • Disability management : at TIM, there are 1,684  employees with disabilities, accounting for around 3% of the 
workforce. The following have been made available for th ese employees to have a positive work day:  
• the policy of automatic workstation adaptation;  
• solutions to improve communication between deaf and hearing employees1;  
• the activities of the Working Capital accelerators that assist several disability project st art-ups;  
• support for employees’ children with disabilities during TIM Summer camps.  
• Gender : TIM is working in partnership with Valore D2, both as a supporting member and as a member of the Board of 
Directors. Because of this, more than 100 employees a yea r have the opportunity to attend skill -building courses, 
mentoring and coaching programs, as well as courses and workshops on welfare and work -life balance3; In addition, 
during 2019, the "Women's Project" was launched.  
• Age management : in Italy, more than half of the Group’s people were born between 1960 and 1980. This figure 
increases in the area of caring services alone. TIM has therefore launched an important age management programme 
that includes a portfolio of activities: from the cross -generational “m asters of the trade” meetings, to mentoring, to 
the redesign of models of development, training and rewards.  
• Sexual orientation and gender identity : thanks to the partnership with PARKS, Liberi e Uguali, of which TIM is a 
founding member and Board member, we have implemented TIM’s definition of “family”, which extends all benefits 
granted to its employees (car, healthcare, supplementary insurance) to all cohabiting partners, regardless of sex, and 
grants the opportunity to access the company’s many care ser vices (crèches, summer stays, study stays) to the 
registered family of the employee regardless of the blood bond, and therefore also to homosexual families and their 
children); in 2019 TIM was also a sponsor of Roma Pride and Milano Pride, with the partici pation of a large group of 
employees and family members.  
• Employee volunteering initiatives : these are an integral part of TIM’s inclusion management programme, since they 
promote coming together and improving listening and comprehension skills and, indeed,  inclusion.  
      The main voluntary activities include:  
− 1,731 Group employees have renewed their commitment to helping CIAI4, the Community of Sant’Egidio and Save 
the Children, giving their support to remote adoption of children, with a total contributi on of around 180,000 euros;  
− 51 blood donation days were organized (around 10,000 blood donations a year);  
−  over 700 employees signed up to take part in “Race for the Cure” organized by the Susan Komen Foundation for 
breast cancer research;  
− at 15 company locations, 64 solidarity stalls were hosted by charities.5 
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 405]  
TIM Brasil reinforced its commitment in people engagement, people caring, and diversity and inclusion management as 
fundamental pillars of its HR practices.  
In 2019, around 9,042 employees took part to Corporate Climate Survey6, corresponding to 96% of the whole workforce.  
To encourage general involvement, in October 2019 employees and their families participated in the "TIM Abre as Portas" 
initiative, during which TIM opened its doors to approximately 3,200 children (the sons and daughters of employees aged 
between 3 and 12  years). The children who visited the offices, getting to know the environment in which their parents 
work and participating in recreational and innovative activities.  
Considering diversity as a reflection of society and, consequently, of the labour marke t, TIM Bra sil continued implementing 
a culture of respect and appreciation of differences, trusting the fact that the more diverse a group is, the greater is the 
exchange of experiences and solutions, which helps build a healthy work environment and a comp etitive advantage in 
the market.  
                                                                 
1 TIM offers the LIS interpreting service in the key moments of interaction between manager and employee, subtitles in main com munications on 
the Intranet, specific e -mail inboxes, as well as free video calling services and an integrated co mmunication platform developed internally, which 
can be used both from smartphones and desktop computers.  
2 www.valored.it  
3 TIM has also joined the Women’s Employment Manifesto, a document whereby it is committed to 9 areas of activity.  
4 Italian Center for Childhood Aid.  
5  Charity events promoted by employees for non -profit organizations.  
6For more details, see The Commitment to our people section of this chapter.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
113 
 Therefore, in July 2019, the People Caring and Inclusion Management unit – within Human Resources and Organization 
area has been created with mission to build and manage policies, programs and structured initiatives of dive rsity and 
inclusion, aligned with the strategy and organization culture and the principles of inclusion and appreciation of the 
contribution of each employee.  
A new plan has then been structured and focused on 5 categories of diversity & inclusion and rel ated commitments:  
• Gender : acting on gender parity, ensuring equity of opportunity in the employee's journey at TIM (hiring, on boarding, 
training and career development);  
• Sexual orientation and gender identity : Promote an inclusive work environment, combat ing all forms of discrimination 
and prejudice;  
• Ethnicity : Acting on ethnicity and race equity, ensuring equity of opportunity in the employee's journey at TIM (hiring, 
on boarding, training and career development).  
• Generation : Valuing generational diversit y by bringing people of all ages together in a context of mutual exchange 
and learning.  
• People with disabilities  (PWD): Increase actions to bring in, develop and retain people with disabilities in the company, 
breaking cultural and physical barriers to ens ure equal opportunities for them.  
 
TIM continued rolling out the already existing PWD program, based on enabling PWD people to join the Company also 
through special career opportunities. TIM Brasil also implemented several actions to make its facilities and furniture 
accessible to these employees, ensuring quick adaptation to the internal environment, in addition to conducting 
awareness activities with managers and teams.  
By doing these actions, TIM Bra sil was able to increase the number of people with disabilities hired. As a consequence, 
the company improved its percentage of compliance with the hiring quota established by the Conduct Adjustment 
Agreement (TAC, acronym in Portuguese), signed with the Br azilian Public Prosecutor’s Office (Law No. 8213/91), going 
from 28% in 2016 to 40% in October 2019.  
Throughout 2019, the Company also reinforced the commitment and positioning of diversity and inclusion in TIM Bra sil 
through some actions such as Mother’s , Father’s Day and International Women’s Day campaign with approach focused 
on diversity & inclusion, free of gender stereotype.  
The TIM Talks, a week of development dedicated to all employees, offered workshops and lectures across the country, 
especially on diversity & inclusion. Eight events were focused on diversity & inclusion themes, with participation of speaker 
of the LGBT Community, over 60s and people with disabilities. The program also offered dedicated content for employees' 
children, with lectur es and workshops on careers, social networking and business.  
 
Other initiatives for employees  
[GRI 201 -3] To promote employee personal and family well -being through enhanced investments, TIM has put in place a 
company loan scheme for predefined reasons f or all Group personnel.  
To support preventative staff health care, TIM provides all those who are 45 years of age or older, the chance to join a 
flexible and personalised health prevention programme every two years.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
114 
 ASSILT (supplementary healthcare asso ciation for the employees of TIM Group companies), funded by the Group 
companies, by employee members and retired members, is a non -profit -making organisation providing services to its 
members and beneficiaries that are supplementary to those provided by t he Italian national health service, including -
together with public healthcare establishments -collective and individual research, knowledge -gathering initiatives and 
health prevention activities, and the promotion of health education initiatives to protec t the health and physical well -
being of its members. In 2019, the Association issued refunds totaling approximately 52 million euros. As of December 31, 
2019, the Association had 168,000 members, including about 89,000 employees and family members and 79,00 0 
pensioners.  
ASSIDA provides senior management staff with refunds for the cost of supplementary health services to those provided 
by the Italian national health service. At December 31, 2019, the Association had 1,581 beneficiaries and 527 registered 
managers and had disbursed approximately 1,500,000 euro.  
TELEMACO is the national complementary pension fund for employees in the telecommunications industry, established 
in 1998 as a non -profit association and operative since October 2000; its objective i s to ensure that those subscribing are 
able to maintain their standard of living when retiring, thanks to the creation of supplementary social security, over and 
above the public provisions. It is intended for workers, office staff and middle managers of c ompanies that apply the 
national telecommunications contract, for employees on permanent, apprenticeship or placement contracts and for 
people who are physically supported by the workers subscribing to the Fund. As of January 1, 2020, there were 33,376 
emp loyees subscribed to Telemaco, from 9 associated companies with active members.  
[GRI 401 -2] All Group workers, whether full or part -time, on permanent or fixed -term contracts, enjoy the same benefits, 
whilst, in Italy, the supplementary welfare institute i s extended to workers on apprenticeship or placement contracts, as 
well as to employees on permanent contracts.  
CRALT is the recreational club for employees of the TIM Group which organises sight -seeing, sports, cultural and 
recreational activities for its  members, employees, pensioners and their families. By entering into specific agreements, 
CRALT also allows members and their families to purchase goods and services at particularly good prices, which can also 
be settled in instalments. One of the most sig nificant of these is the agreement and the resulting contribution provided 
for the purchase of school and university books for the children of members, as a valuable contribution to household 
purchasing power.  
At December 31, 2019, there were about 40,000  members, of which about were 35,000 employees and about 5,000 
retirees.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
115 
 APPENDIX  
Below is the analytical data for the company workforce, broken down according to the GRI Standards.  
[GRI 102 -8f] Group data includes, as well as Domestic Business Unit and Brazil, other very few units deriving from two 
entities (Telecom Italia Capital S.A., Telecom Italia Finance S.A.).  
 [GRI 102 -8a] [GRI 102 -8c] Employees by type of contract, employment and gender.  
  2019  2018  2017  
  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Total permanent     34,644      20,456    36,787  20,963  38,107  21,184  
of which Full Time      33,247      13,347    35,289  13,615  36,559  13,907  
of which Part Time        1,397          7,109    1,498  7,348  1,548  7,277  
              
Total fixed -term  48         45  77 74 68 70 
of which Full Time   7            7   6 5 4 2 
of which Part Time    41               38    71 69 64 68 
 
 [GRI 102 -8a] [GRI 102 -8d] Employees on the payroll and agency contract workers, by gender.    
 2019  2018  2017  
 Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Employees on payroll  34,692  20,501  36,864  21,037  38,175  21,254  
Agency contract workers  5 0 0 0 0 0 
 
 
 [GRI 102 -8b] Employees by geographic area and gender  
 2019  2018  2017  
 Italy  Abroad  Total  Italy  Abroad  Total  Italy  Abroad  Total  
Men  29,599  5,094  34,693  31,788  5,076  36,864  33,208  4,967  38,175  
Women  15,662  4,838  20,500  16,217  4,820  21,037  16,481  4,773  21,254  
Total  45,261    9,932    55,193  48,005  9,896  57,901  49,689  9,740  59,429  
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
116 
 [GRI 102 -8] Employees of suppliers working at the Group offices and whose activities are part of the 
core business of TIM1  
 2019  2018  2017  
External FTE on site  528 569 631 
 
 [GRI 401 -1a]2 Total number  and rate  of new hires by age group  
  2019  2018  2017  
  No. % No. % No. % 
<30         1,512  2.67%  1,506  2.60%  1,355  2.20%  
>=30; <=50      1,373   2.42%  1,398  2.40%  1,022  1.70%  
>50         87    0.15%  59 0.10%  64 0.10%  
 
[GRI 401 -1a] Total number and rate of new hires  by gender  
  2019  2018  2017  
  No. % No. % No. % 
Man        1,621    2.86%  1,548  2.60%  1,310  2.20%  
Woman         1,351   2.38% 1,415  2.40%  1,131  1.90%  
 
 [GRI 401 -1a] Distribution of hires by geographical area  
  2019  2018  2017  Changes  
No. % No. % No. % (2019/2018)  
Italy               407    0.86%  374 0.80%  336 0.70%  33 
Abroad            2,565    26.33%  2,589  26.30%  2,105  21.50%  (24) 
Total         2,972    5.24%  2,963  5.00%  2,441  4.00%  9 
 
[GRI 102 -8] Distribution of Group employees by geographical area  
  2019  2018  2017  Changes  
No. % No. % No. % (2019/2018)  
Italy          45,261    82%     49,167    83%  50,652  84%  (3,906)  
Abroad            9,932    18%       9,827    17% 9,780  16%  105 
Total       55,193      58,994    60,432    (3,801)  
 
  
                                                                 
1 The only core business operations that require a significant working con tribution from the employees of suppliers at the company offices relate 
to the development of IT platforms.The data in the table refers exclusively to these cases.  
2 The KPI tables [GRI 401] show each percentage calculated on the basis of the average numbe r of employees for the indicated area.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
117 
 [GRI 401 -1b] Total number of terminations and turnover rate by gender  
  2019  2018  2017  
  No. % No. % No. % 
Man  3,789  6.7%  2,858  4.8%  2,539  4.2%  
Woman   1,891  3.3%  1,633  2.8%  1,698  2.8%  
 
[GRI 401 -1b] Total number of terminations and turnover rate by age  
  2019  2018  2017  
  No. % No. % No. % 
<30 1,185  2.1%  1,251  2.1%  1,428  2.4%  
>=30; <=50  1,713  3.0%  1,518  2.6%  1,434  2.4%  
>50 2,782  4.8%  1,722  2.9%  1,375  2.3%  
 
[GRI 401 -1b] Total number of terminations and turnover rate of ex -employees by geographical 
area  
  2019  2018  2017  
  No. % No. % No. % 
Domestic  3,156  6.7%  2,046  4.24%  1,790  3.6% 
Brazil  2,520  26.5%  2,412  25.0% 2,427  18.8% 
 
 
[GRI 401 -3] Parental leave.   
  2019  2018  2017  
  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
[GRI 401 -3b] Employees who benefited from 
parental leave, by gender1 168 559 191 1,129  163 1,166  
 [GRI 401 -3c] Employees who returned after 
having benefited from parental leave, by 
gender2 * * 162 445 156 1,158  
[GRI 401 -3d] Employees at work after a year 
from the end of parental leave  * * 135 532 143 1,019  
[GRI 401 -3e] (return to work rate) Percentage 
of employees who returned to work after 
parental leave out of total employees 
benefiting from leave  * * 99.4%  79.6%  95.7%  99.3%  
[GRI 401 -3e] (retention rate) Percentage of 
employees at work after 12 months from the 
end of parental leave out of total employees 
benefiting from leave  * * 82.4%  84.7% 87.7%  87.4%  
 
                                                                 
1 Please note that in the table, the year of return of employee x has not been calculated according to the year in which x effe ctively returned, but according to the year in which x took leave. Therefore, if x took leave in 2018 and returned in 
2019, his re turn is in any case reported in the 2018 column. This is why the data for the 2019 column is still partial and not yet able t o be published.  
2 Please note that in the table, the year of continued work of employee x has not been calculated according to the year in which x was at work after 12 months of leave, but according to the year in which x took leave. Therefore, if x took 
leave in 2017 and after 12 months was still at work in 2019, his continuation at work is in any case reported in the 2018 col umn. As  we do not yet know which of the employees who went on leave in 2019 will still be at work after 12 months, 
we are unable to calculate the figure for 2018.  
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
118 
 * The data will be available from the end of 2020.  
 
[GRI 403 -2a] Injuries and occupational diseases  1 
 
  2019  2018  2017  
  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  Man  Woman  
Injury rate out of total 
workforce* (number of injuries 
over hours worked)   6.1  3.7 6,1 4,3 6,9 4,3 
Days lost over workforce* (days 
of injury over working hours)   0.2 0.1 0,2 0,1 0,2  
Absenteeism rate out of total 
workforce** (total hours of 
absenteeism over working 
hours)   6.8 11.8  5,5 10,8 5,6 9,4 
Occupational disease rate out of 
total workforce* (number of 
cases over workforce)   0.1  0.0 0,1 0,0 0,1 0,0 
* Temporary workers are not considered in this type of record. In any case, there were 5 temporary workers in 2019.  
** The absenteeism rate is calculated taking into consideration the additional items with respect to those of the GRI 403 -2 indicator.  
 
In 2019, a total of 432 accidents, of which 331 involving men and 101 women, occurred in the Group.  
[GRI 404 -1] 2019 focus charts by type of training related to TIM Group are presented below.  
In 2018 and 2017 the survey only concerned TIM S.p.A., shown below  for comparison reasons.  
 
Environment 2019 - TIM Group  
  
Total hours  9,713  
% of total training hours  0.7%  
 
 
Environment – TIM S.p.A.  
 Total Hours  Coverage1 
Year 2018  9,508  9.2%  
Year 2017  9,017  7.0%  
 
 
 
Health and safety 2019 - TIM Group  
  
Total hours  131,989  
% of total training hours  9.1%  
 
Health and Safety – TIM S.p.A.  
 Total Hours  Coverage  
Year 2018  135,850  35.7%  
                                                                 
1 The figure includes an accident occurred in 2018 and still ongoing in 2019, uninterrupted.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
119 
 Year 2017  164,924  42.7%  
 
 
Anti -corruption 2019 - TIM Group  
  
Total hours  10,456  
% of total training hours  0.7%  
 
 
Anti -corruption – TIM S.p.A.  
 
 Total Hours  Coverage  
Year 2018  149 0.5%  
Year 2017  16,624  73.6%  
 
 
 
Human Rights 2019 - TIM Group  
  
Total hours  1,791  
% of total training hours  0.1%  
 
 
Human Rights – TIM S.p.A.  
 Total Hours  Coverage  
Year 2018  3,284  1.8%  
Year 2017  3,883  7.9%  
 
 
Privacy 2019 - TIM Group  
  
Total hours  26,489  
% of total training hours  1.8%  
 
Privacy – TIM S.p.A.1 
 Total Hours  Coverage  
Year 2018  13,371  24.4%  
 
 
 
Total Training - TIM S.p.A.  
 Total Hours  Coverage2 
Year 2018  1,249,089  100.4%  
                                                                 
1 The survey concerning only Privacy training started in 2018 in TIM S.p.A.; 2017 data, therefore, does not exist.  
2 Coverage refers to the percentage of participants compared to the total as of 12.31, i.e. the % of human resources who took p art in at least 
one training session.   TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
120 
 Year 2017  1,317,426  97.9%  
[GRI 405 -2] Ratio of women/men according to basic salary and ratio of women/men according to 
remuneration, broken down according to each professional category1 
TIM Group  2019  2018  2017  
Senior Managers  GAS  0.93 N.A. N.A. 
TAR 0.93 N.A. N.A. 
Middle Managers  GAS  0.95 N.A. N.A. 
TAR 0.93 N.A. N.A. 
Office Staff  GAS  0.84  N.A. N.A. 
TAR 0.84  N.A. N.A. 
 
Domestic  2019  2018  2016  
Senior Managers  GAS  0.93 N.A. N.A. 
TAR 0.94  N.A. N.A. 
Middle Managers  GAS  0.95 N.A. N.A. 
TAR 0.93 N.A. N.A. 
Office Staff  GAS  0.92 N.A. N.A. 
TAR 0.92 N.A. N.A. 
 
 
 
Brazil  2019  2018  2017  
Senior Managers  GAS  0.87 0.80  0.77 
TAR 0.83  0.80  0.85  
Middle Managers  GAS  0.95 0.96  0.95 
TAR 0.96  0.96  0.95 
Office Staff  GAS  0.69  0.70 0.67 
TAR 0.69  0.70 0.67 
GAS = Gross Annual Salary, comprising recurring fixed remuneration.  
TAR = Total Annual Remuneration, comprising the Gross Annual Remuneration + bonuses awarded during the reference year (the bonuse s may 
refer to individual or group incentive systems or take the form of special awards or meritocratic policy awards).  
 
Female -Male Pay Ratio at Country Level (RGA)  2019  2018  2017  
ITALY    0.81 N.A. N.A. 
                                                                 
1For the years 2017 and 2018, in addition to Brazil, data on TIM SpA were provided, available for reference on the Group's web site 
www.telecomitalia.com, sustainability section.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
121 
 BRAZIL    0.62 N.A. N.A. 
 
2019 results and 2020 objectives  
 
 
Tim S.P.A.   
Area of reference   
Indicator  Unit of 
measure
ment  Target 
2019  Actual 
figure 2019  Target 
status 
2019*  Target 
2020  
HUMAN RESOURCES 
TRAINING  Training on health, safety and the 
environment  Training 
hours  90,000  113,135  ● N.A. 
HUMAN RESOURCES 
TRAINING  Training hours per capita  Training 
hours  30 24.13  ● 28 
HUMAN RESOURCES 
TRAINING  Coverage (percentage of employees who 
participated in at least one training session 
from the total population)  % 98 94,10  ● 95 
HUMAN RESOURCES 
INJURIES  Accidents per 100 workers  Number  0.90  0.90  ● 0.85  
HUMAN RESOURCES 
ENGAGEMENT SURVEY  Engagement index percentage increase 
compared to 2019 survey results  % N.A. N.A. N.A.  
 
 
TIM Brasil  
Area of reference   
Indicator  Unit of 
measure
ment  Target 
2019  Actual 
figure 2019  Target 
status 
2019*  Target 
2020  
HUMAN RESOURCES  Total training hours  Number  613,581  363,623  ● 856,079  
HUMAN RESOURCES  Percentage of new hires who were trained 
in sustainability out of the total of new 
hires  % 90 93 ● 
● 90 
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
122 
 Customers  
Customer satisfaction  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] The 2019 materiality analysis highlighted the Group’s 
relationship with its customers as a material topic.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] The nature of the telecommunications market is increasingly marked 
by great competitiveness and digita lization which, together with simplification and compliance with customer 
expectations in terms of content and services, are key elements of the competitive arena.  
All this drives companies to change their business models and customer experience  has becom e the lever used to 
compete and the main activity of players who lead in the market with strategic positioning. An excellent customer 
experience  is the guiding factor for increasing loyalty and the perceived value of the brand, and in attracting new 
custom ers.  
In this area, TIM has begun a transformation process focused on improving customer experience  and strengthening the 
relationship with the brand. The “ TIM around the Customer ” project includes various initiatives based on transparency, 
simplicity and respect for the customer. In this field, improvement plans have been launched with targeted actions and 
various initiatives that, with the aim of transforming the culture, involve all employees in innovative ways: “ make the 
difference ”, “idea sharing ” and a story about customer experience  (where employees are the actors).    
To drive this transformation TIM has developed an extensive listening system, which picks up on customer experience  in 
the different “moments of truth” of the customer journey1, for example: web browsing, purchasing a service, calling 
customer care , reporting a malfunction, posting  on social media .  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] Of the surveys conducted, the monitoring of the Customer Satisfaction 
Index (CSI), base d on the ACSI standard ( American Customer Satisfaction Index ), is particularly significant. The aim is to 
collect information on the quality perceived by TIM customers and customers of the main competitors. Monitoring the 
CSI has earned certification of co nformity with the UNI 11098:2003 standard and has been included in the managerial 
(management by objectives ) and collective incentive system.  
The 2019 results of the CSI are improving compared to the high levels recorded in 2018 (71.40, +0.3% compared to 2018)2. 
In particular, on fixed broadband consumer (broadband), the increase in the CSI compared to 2018 was 3.1%, thanks to 
improvement actions with a positive impact on the customer experience. With regards to the mobile market, TIM remains 
the leader am ong the "traditional" operators. The ties customers demonstrated with respect to the Group are also seen 
in the high propensity to loyalty, in an increasingly competitive context where the consumer’s experience is enriched 
through comparison with different  markets.  
TIM’s ever -greater focus on “continuous improvement” of processes and the customer experience  can also be seen 
through the Net Promoter Score (NPS) of customers who speak with the telephone assistance service, which have been 
confirmed to be extr emely positive (NPS above 10)3. 
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] In Brazil , in 2019 TIM Participações confirmed the significant 
investments in the development of the digital environment, to improve both the quality of services offered to its 
customers and customer experience in general. It further enhanced the “My TIM App” chann el which, in December 2019, 
had 9.9 million unique users per quarter and 51 million accesses per month.  
 
The My TIM App evolution process has continued, focused on improving performance and enriching the service portfolio, 
as shown by the following initia tives:  
• SQUAD: agile work began in August 2019 for the development and monitoring of new features and improvements in 
digital channels;  
                                                                 
1 The customer journey  is the set of experiences that a customer has when interacting with a company for a specific need, from the first contact 
with the company, through a specific channel, until, going through one or more touch points provided by the company itself or  by othe r 
consumers, the expected result is achieved or not.  
2 For mobile+fixed broadband consumer customers, the CSIwas 71.80 in 2017 and 71.20 in 2018.  
3 The Net Promoter Score  (NPS) is an indicator based on international standards and used in various industrial  sectors. The NPS is based on the 
potential recommendation of the operator in relation to the experience accrued. On a scale of 0 to 10, “promoters” are custom ers expressing 
votes of 9 or 10, “detractors” are those providing a score of 0 to 6, whereas the rest of the customers are considered as “passive” and are not 
countered towards calculating the NPS. The NPS is calculated as the difference between the percentages of the "promoters" and  
"detractors".  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
123 
 • My TIM App: structured planning of actions, both in order to promote the app to new customers and to launch a new 
in-app communication channel involving already existing users ("Fique por Dentro" - similar to Instagram stories);  
• My TIM Website: conclusion of the migration of the main functions to a new version that allows reactive behavior 
(process started with prepaid custo mers in 2017);  
• Captive Meu Plano (Capture My Plan): relaunch of the web channel platform focused on the prepaid segment, 
restructuring with usability improvements and launch of new functions;  
• Naked portal: improvements in its use as a digital channel for t he self -provisioning (self -supply) of customers.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] TIM Participações also relates to its customers via twitter, facebook and 
instagram (the latter was launched in March 2019 and had gained more than 245,000 foll owers and over 27,000 
comments at the end of December 2019). In December 2019, "@TIMBrasil" (http:// twitter.com/TIMBrasil ) counted over 
755,000 followers and its facebook page (www.facebook.com/timbrasil) over 2.8 million likers.  
In 2012, TIM Participações also activated a further channel “@TIM_AJUDA” (https://twitter.com/TIM_AJUDA), which 
allows to communicate with customers via Twitter. In December 2019, this account had more than 276,000 followers and 
over 2 48,000 tweets.   
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] TIM Participações carries out three types of nationwide customer 
satisfaction surveys, by means of interviews:  
• the survey relating to both own consumer customers and competitors' consumer customers - conducted "hot" every 
month since June 2017 (online panel), with data consolidation every quarter - which measures the general satisfaction 
of customers with the Company and its contact points (e.g. sales structures, call centers, digital chann els, coverage 
and quality of the technical network and, with regard to internet connections, tariff plans and offers, billing)1; 
• the Call Center Satisfaction Survey, carried out once a month “cold” through telephone interviews, involving Company 
mobile cus tomers who have contacted the call center in the last fifteen days. Since June 18, 2018, the sample size of 
this survey and of the target audience has been reduced, limiting it to the post -paid segment and to call centers 
dedicated to companies. Since Janu ary 19, 2019, the survey has focused only on call centers dedicated to companies;  
• The Transactional Survey Call Center is now the main channel for call center surveys as it covers all customer contact 
activities (front end).  This is a transactional survey  because TIM's mobile customers (who use the services provided 
through prepaid, post -paid and "control2" channels, as well as companies) evaluate the call center immediately after 
"contact", via IVR (Interactive Voice Response).  
 
TIM Participações survey t ype  2019  
 2018  2017  
Consumer customer(*) 7.34 7.08 6.95 
Consumer mobile telephone call center(**) N/A3 7.05 7.81 
Business mobile telephone call center(***) 6.42 6.95 7.03 
Consumer mobile telephone transactional call center(****) 7.45 6.15 5.84  
Business mobile telephone transactional call center(**) 7.72 6.17 5.56 
 
(*) Average index, on a scale of 0 to 10.  
(**) Average mobile consumer customer satisfaction index on a scale of 0 to 10.  
(***) Average mobile business customer satisfaction index on a scale of 0 to 10.     
(****) Average mobile consumer customer satisfaction index on a scale of 0 to 10.  
(*****) Average mobile business customer satisfaction index on a scale of 0 to 10.  
 
 
 
                                                                 
1 It involved a group of selected participants who agr eed to provide information at set intervals for a long period of time.  
2 A service package offered by TIM, which has the main characteristics of a fixed monthly amount.  
3The Company decided to suspend this survey in December 2018 and maintain the transacti onal survey (consumer mobile customer call 
centers) it was closer to reality, as it was carried out immediately after telephone contact with the customer (the suspended  survey, on the 
other hand, could take place up to fifteen days after contact).  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
124 
 [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] Use of social networking in customer care  
In recent years, TIM Customer Relationship Management  has been increasingly focused on the monitoring of new digital 
contexts, identifying the future of assistance, care and loyalty of its  customers in the monitoring and management of 
care  contacts obtained from the social networks (Twitter and Facebook).  
In 2010, TIM launched the Caring on Social Media  project and, over the years, has built up a new relationship with digital 
mobile and la ndline telephone customers, building trust by re -engineering and reviewing processes, developing 
management systems, extending monitoring times and investing in the training of social caring  agents.  
 
With the projects already launched in 2017, aimed at bot h improving the service provided and monitoring quality in 2018, 
TIM has strengthened its operational model through the use of a new social tool  platform, for the integrated management 
of all touch points , leading to further development in the operator’s f unctions and in controlling the main performance 
indicators.  
TIM continues with its strategy strongly oriented towards digitization and innovation, also offering new digital caring  
channels to the customers’ advantage, who receive personalized and quick a nswers that improve customer experience , 
loyalty and engagement . 
 
At December 31, 2019, TIM’s social caring  team managed 557K caring  conversations on the Facebook page and 68K on 
Twitter; in particular, the customer care  demand on facebook amounted to 156K on the public page and 401K via private 
message. The main reasons for contact with digital  customers were requests for clarifications of a commercial, 
administrative or technical assistance nature.       
This has allowe d TIM, also in the first months of 2019, to consolidate its leading role on social networks  and also its digital 
leadership in the Socialbaker rankings; TIM has positioned itself in first place as a brand in Italy in terms of social chann el 
response time a nd rate (AMIQ1 indicator, a parameter calculated taking into account the relationship between the 
number of managed public posts and the response time of the brand within 24 hours).  
 
The contribution of social networks  is also important for TIM to enhance and promote the many social, cultural and 
innovative initiatives, such as the Mausoleum of Augustus project, the dissemination of the TIMHitech 5G project initial 
results, numerous social issues (especially those overseen by the TIM Foundation) and support  for publishing Corporate 
Social Responsibility  projects (e.g. the TIM Digital School and TIMSostiene).  
All this has allowed TIM to consolidate its position at the top of the various communities , created on various social 
networks  (Facebook, Twitter, Insta gram, YouTube) for its main brands: TIM, TIM Business, TIMvision, TIMmusic, Working 
Capital , with over 3.9 million likers and followers .  
 
From July 2018, through the Instant Messaging channel in the new version of the MyTIM app, fixed and mobile consumer 
customers have the opportunity to interact with customer service in a smart way ; from 1 January to December 31, 2019, 
the digital customer care team managed 2.4 million conversations via Instant Messaging.  
 
From November 2018 TIM has also offered the new customer service channel on whatsapp (the first telephone operator 
in Italy to offer this service). Initially, this assistance service was reserved for TIM Pay customers, the payment tool that  
integrates tele phone service with the innovative “mobile banking” solution (TIM Pay customers can receive dedicated 
assistance with all TIM fixed and mobile services). It has now been extended to customers with concessiones (customers 
who are blind and deaf)2. In future,  whatsapp assistance will be progressively rolled out to other customoers and/or 
services, for example sending invoices, notification of payment deadlines and many courtesy activities. From 1 January 
to December 31, 2019, the digital customer care team man aged 25K conversations via the whatsapp channel.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                 
1 Answer ed Minus Ignored Questions . 
2Resolution AGCom No. 46/17/CONS.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
125 
 [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] Involvement of call center operators  
In 2019, the activities involving call center operators have progressed along the path structured in previous years related 
to focusing on improving basic knowledge and the process of providing information/training through the TUO portal 
(acronym for Trova , Usa and Organizza – Find, Use and Organise).  
Specifically, the most relevant actions focused on:  
• the organisation of ad hoc courses for interested employees using virtual classrooms;  
• the implementation of surveys to verify learning, on a monthly basis  or based on particular needs, with possible 
training recovery interventions focused on the most critical issues;  
• the dissemination of information with the most relevant news through fixed and mobile consumer newsletters ; 
• the publication of fact sheets and  dynamic tables on the most important topics;  
• the increase of information sent by email to customers, in support of contact with them.  
Moreover, as an absolute novelty in 2019, a weekly gamification on the consolidated knowledge base structure has been 
implemented for agents, with the aim of making information refreshers more effective through playful dynamics, while 
avoiding boring and repetitive actions and the consequent cognitive overload.1  
 
 
Self-service area  
In the course of 2018, TIM has introduce d actions to raise awareness and encourage the wider use of the MyTIM private 
area of the tim.it website, which through registration allows some types of requests to be forwarded in a simple and 
direct way (subject of further development).  
This allows cust omers to avoid having to make written requests, leading to economic and time savings, and to monitor 
the progress of the issue. Some types of requests, such as direct debits, can be immediately carried out through automatic 
processing.  
 
PEDIUS - Managing calls for the hearing impaired  
Also in 2019, in addition to the new whatsapp channel, customers who are deaf could use the PEDIUS service, which 
allows access to TIM’s call centers , in addition to the usual channels. The trial phase was launched in September 2014:  
• is available to all customers on app stores (both Apple and Android);  
• aims to ensure that inbound contact is accessible to hearing -impaired customers through an app that allows normal 
calls to be made using voice synthesis and recognition technology.  
 
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -44] Customer Satisfaction in incentive systems  
TIM’s managerial ( Management by Objectives ) and collective (performance bonus) incentive systems include objectives 
associated with customer satisfacti on indicators in keeping with the business plan for the current period. The targets are 
made up of several aspects corresponding to different market segments. Further details are available in the "TIM People" 
paragraph of this report.  
  
                                                                 
It1 consists of applying typical elements of gaming (e.g. scoring, competition with others, game rules) to other areas of activit y, generally as an 
online marketing technique to encourage involvement with a product or service.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
126 
 Conciliation proced ures  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] The 2019 materiality analysis highlighted the Group’s 
relationship with its customers as a material topic.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] The conciliation procedure between TIM and the consumer 
protection associations who signed the framework agreement for the out -of-court settlement of telephone disputes, was 
the first example of joint conciliation in Italy (operational in 1993 throughout the national territory). In 2011, the European 
Parliament recognized “Italian joint conciliation” as an example of best practice based on the protocol signed by the 
Company and Consumer Associations, where the Company undertakes to use an alternative proce dure to resolve 
disputes that may arise between company and consumer, known as “ Alternative Disputes Resolution ” (ADR). In December 
2019, 22 consumer associations signed up to the conciliation agreement, 19 of which registered with the CNCU (National 
Counc il of Consumers and Users), an organisation representing consumer associations - chaired by the Italian Ministry of 
Economic Development - with the task of contributing to improving and strengthening consumer satisfaction levels.  
In 2016, on entry into fo rce of Legislative Decree No.130/2015, implementing European Directive No. 2013/11/EU, the 
Italian legislator made an important choice by counting “joint conciliations” in ADR procedures, completely reforming the 
original Art. 141 of the Consumer Code. By virtue of this new European and national regulatory framework, the TIM -
Consumer Association Joint Conciliation Procedure was:  
• recognized as an “ADR Body” possessing the requisites of stability, efficiency and impartiality required by the 
regulatory framewo rk; 
• registered on the list of recognized ADR Bodies, established by the AGCom (Italian Communications Authority) on 
June 30, 2017.  
The basis for the dissemination and success of the conciliation procedure is:  
• it is a free model;  
• speed of the process;  
• the mandatory requirement to seek recourse to conciliation as a prerequisite for judicial requests to proceed.  
Undoubtedly, conciliation is successful also thanks to the good relationships built up and maintained over the years with 
consumer associations which , as stakeholders of the Company, have always provided a wealth of useful information on 
critical consumer issues to the company through their contributions.  
 
Following the establishment of the ADR Body, there was a revision of the Joint Conciliation Regu lation and the application 
methods of the unitary conciliation protocol established between TIM and the Consumer Associations registered at the 
CNCU. The protocol is considered unitary because it serves as a common basis for other telecom operators (Vodafo ne, 
WindTre, Fastweb). It includes procedures and guidelines to be applied in order to guarantee a comprehensive 
harmonization for end consumers. The ADR Body, established in compliance with the provisions of Art. 141 ter of the 
Consumer Code, is establish ed at the TIM headquarters.  
 
A new collaboration agreement (already partly presented in December 2019) with some of the main Associations – those 
who are most collaborative, involved and engaged in debates on electronic communication – will be launched by  2020, 
with the aim of more effectively combining the interests of the company with the needs of consumers. In this respect, 
thanks to this agreement great emphasis will be placed on strengthening the dialog concerning the most sensitive issues 
for the con sumer, such as the new 5G technology. In addition, and again with the aim of best consolidating the agreement 
between the Associations and the Operator, the introduction of a new channel for handling consumers’ complaints 
addressed to TIM and submitted to the Consumer Associations has been guaranteed.  
 
Since 2009, in compliance with the voluntary undertakings given and approved by the AGCom  in 2008, TIM has also been 
managing conciliation requests at Co.Re.Com (Regional Communication Committees) and Chamber  of Commerce offices 
(until June 2018), replicating the organizational model successfully applied for joint conciliations. In this way, customers 
can choose to use the consumer associations or take advantage of alternative paths through Co.Re.Com to settle  any 
disputes with the Company out of court.  
 
In light of Resolution 203/18/CONS "Approval of the regulation on dispute resolution procedures between users and 
operators of electronic communications", from July 2018 AGCom has introduced the new conciliatio n management TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
127 
 system "ConciliaWeb", developed by the Authority which had also established procedures for the on -line presentation 
and management of the conciliation event for customers.  
Beyond the choice of procedure by the customer, the underlying aspect o f the conciliation is always the customer’s needs, 
making it possible to build up a good relationship between the customer and the Company.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] To date, the conciliation model has achieved high 
qualitative and quantitative results; specifically, in 2019 the use of the Co.Re.Com channel continued to see significant 
figures, accounting for 72.5% of the conciliations discussed, while the Joint chann el accounted for 27.5% of the requests 
discussed (the Chamber of Commerce channel was closed in July 2018).  
The positive trend seen in the conciliation system in previous years continued in 2019 (albeit with a significant increase in  
the number of cases di scussed, equal to 68,465, an increase of 16.4% compared to 2018); in fact:  
• 97% of the applications for joint conciliation (18,249 conciliated out of 18,820 discussed), a stable percentage year on 
year despite an increase in the applications discussed agai n this year (+11.6% compared to 2018);  
• 83.3% of the requests discussed at the Co.Re.Com (41,372 reconciled out of 49,645 discussed). This percentage 
remained high in 2019, also considering the 19.5% increase in the cases discussed compared to the previous year 
(41,554 in 2018).  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] TIM supported the conciliation activity through:  
• the seminars and joint training initiatives involving dedicated personnel from TIM, AGCom, Co.Re.Com. and Consumer 
Associati ons;  
• the debates, conferences, interviews and the other promotional activities involving senior management in order to 
disseminate the correct cultural approach to the subject.   
 
Conciliation is becoming increasingly widespread among customers, particularly in view of the:  
• better knowledge of the procedure (both joint and conciliaweb) which is considered to be a quick and economical way 
of resolving disputes;  
• economic crisis that leads to conciliation even for marginal amounts;  
• the widespread ter ritorial presence of Co.Re.Com and the various Consumer Associations, able to bring the conciliation 
tool increasingly closer to the local needs of consumers.  
  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] In Brazil  TIM Participações has clos e relations with the 
Agencies that are part of the consumer protection system, such as ministries, public defenders and legitimate civil 
protection entities, which promote the culture of good relationships between companies and their customers, including 
SENACON1 and PROCONS2; TIM Participações also participates in the Conciliation Forum, which promotes dialog between 
companies and consumer protection agencies, with the aim of resolving disputes, managing workshops with consumer 
protection authorities for c ompany employees and taking part in external events to improve the quality of service offered 
to its customers.  
TIM Participações is the Brasilian operator with the penultimate number of complaints in PROCONS, part of the SINDEC, 
the national consumer prot ection Information System (source: SINDEC of SENACON official report).  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] In 2014 SENACON launched the Consumidor.Gov.br 
platform service for the mediation of conflicts, which facilitates the resoluti on of customer complaints and makes 
PROCONS' work easier. TIM Participações was one of the first companies to join the aforementioned platform, through 
which customers can also report whether the complaint has been resolved or not and the quality of the re sponse provided 
by the company. In 2019, the average customer satisfaction score of TIM Participações, who used the aforementioned 
platform service, was 4 on a scale of 1 to 5.  
 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] Also in 2014, following an ANATEL resolution, TIM 
Participações has established its own Users’ Council, which aims to offer solutions to improve the quality of the services 
provided. In 2017, the Users’ Council, together with the Public Defence Department,  created a new conciliation channel - 
Canal 0800 Defensoria Pública - which aims to reduce complaints in court, through a direct channel of communication 
between the Public Defenders and TIM Participações. In 2018, this channel was made available to Public  Defense 
                                                                 
1 National Secretariat for Consu mer Protection.  
2 Consumer Protection Programme.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
128 
 departments of 23 Brazilian state capitals; in 2019, the objective was to extend it to the main cities in the country’s inter ior 
with a consumer protection office within the Public Defence department.  
In 2018, the Users' Council begun disseminatio n activities through which retail sellers - after introducing the TIM 
Participações service channels - started teaching customers how to download the Consumidor.Gov.br application on their 
smartphones. this activity has already been implemented in six stat es and in 2020 the objective is to roll it out in six other 
states; In addition, training courses for PROCONS employees and Public Defenders, about TIM Participações services 
(invoicing, credit top -up, plans) were held to reduce the number of complaints. I n particular, in the north -eastern region, 
PROCONS employees have begun to promote TIM Participações' Meu TIM  application.  
In 2018 the National Forum of Users’ Councils was held, too, during which the ANATEL “Letter of Brazil” was established: 
42 proposals  were put forward by the Presidents and Vice -Presidents of the Users’ Councils of telecommunications 
companies which they undertook to observe. After replying to the proposals, TIM Participações received positive feedback 
about them from ANATEL, which comm ented that:  
• TIM Participações' participation in the majority of the proposals was expected, highlighting that “TIM’s Users’ Council 
is differentiated and fully functional”;  
• TIM Participações was the company that registered the highest percentage of partici pation in the proposals (90.48%).  
 
With regard to accessibility, in 2019 TIM continued to disseminate the Consumer Protection Code in Braille and Libras 
(Brazilian sign language) through the Users' Council website and Council meetings. The Users' Council also launched the 
information guide for users of digital and Braille telecommunications services and promoted the installation of the Giulia 
application, which provides accessibility for people who are deaf and is considered a social action by both consume r 
protection agencies and other public agencies related to the sector.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] In 2019, too, TIM achieved excellent results in settling 
claims submitted by PROCON offices: CIPs (Preliminary Investigation  Letters) 79%; 76% were justified   complaints (source: 
SENACON official report).  
 
 
 
Certifications  
 
[GRI 102 -12] For the areas of the Company which have a significant impact on the various stakeholders because of the 
products and services they offer, the Group has obtained and/or confirmed certifications that ensure that procedures and 
conduct are in line with the s takeholders’ expectations.  
The certifications achieved and/or confirmed at December 31, 2019 related to some of the Group's activities and/or 
companies:  
 
• quality of products and services offered: UNI EN ISO 9001 standard;  
• environmental protection: UNI EN  ISO 14001 standard;  
• general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories: ISO/IEC 17025 standard;  
• health and safety at work: BS OHSAS 18001 standard;  
• Information Technology services: ISO/IEC 20000 -1 standard;  
• information securit y: ISO/IEC 27001 standard;  
• information security risk management1: ISO/IEC 27005;  
• management system for the prevention of active and passive bribery (ISO 37001);  
• efficient energy management: standard ISO 50001;  
• the ability of a data center to guarantee cont inuity of the services provided: ANSI/TIA regulation 2-942; 
• security for credit and debit card transactions and cardholders protection from improper use of personal information: 
PCI/DSS standard3; 
                                                                 
1 Supporting the information security management system requirements (ISMS) according to ISO/IEC 27001.  
2 American National Standards Institute/ Telecommunications Industry Association . 
3 Payment Card Industry Data Security  Standard . TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
129 
 • fulfilment of the AGID (Digital Italy Agency) requirements to perform the role of:  
✓ Accredited Operator for Certified Email;  
✓ Accredited Custodian for storing electronic documents pursuant Italian Legislative Decree 82/2005;  
✓ Accredited digital identity manager for SPID services (public service manager) pursuant EU R egulation 910/2014;  
✓ Qualified trust service providers for the issuance of eIDAS qualified electronic time stamps (EU Regulation 
910/2014).  
 
In Brazil , as required by ANATEL (National Telecommunications Agency, the Brazilian telecommunications authority), KPI 
Survey Method Quality Certificates were also achieved for the whole Country regarding:  
• personal mobile services (TIM S.A.);  
• switched fixed telephone services (TIM S.A.);  
• multimedia communications services (TIM S.A.).  
 
Detailed information about the cer tifications achieved by the various functions/companies of the Group can be found in 
the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.  
 
 
 
Child protection  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -2b] The 2019 materiality analysis highlighted - for the TIM Group - the online 
protection of children (cyberbullying, child pornography, gambling1), as a material topic.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -2b] Group Companies have undertaken numerous in itiatives to protect 
children from content that may harm their psychological and physical development (for example, content that is violent, 
racist, offensive to religious sentiment, etc.).  
Adult services come under value added services, also called premi um or content -based services, and can be supplied by 
TIM or external companies that own the content via SMS, MMS or mobile internet services (WAP - wireless application 
protocol), which can be activated, received and/or used on mobile phones, tablets and P Cs. From its activation, the TIM 
card is already enabled to use value added services with adult content, with the exception of TIM cards registered to 
minors, whose adult -content services are disabled.  
 
The Group – in accordance with current regulations – provides the customer with a series of tools to protect minors from 
accessing the sensitive content provided; TIM constantly updates and communicates these tools to the customer, 
through its own information channels (including the 119 customer service and the website tim.it ). The tools to protect 
minors currently available to customers are:   
• permanent restriction ( black listing ) of mobile users from accessing adult content;  
• adult content provided on the TIM mobile portal (“TIM WAP”) can only be accessed by entering a code (adult content 
PIN) on the user’s mobile device, which is different from all other codes used on the device itself in order to prevent 
minors from accessing  said content. The customer is provided with the adult content PIN confidentially, and is 
responsible for its proper use and safeguarding;   
• customers can ask for their mobile number to be black listed  only for sensitive content other than adult content at  
any time via TIM’s usual information channels.  
 
Further information regarding the activation and deactivation of the above protection tools is available at tim.it, from 
Customer Services on 119 and from authorized TIM retail outlets.  
 
The TIM -Protect solu tion is the exclusive TIM option for total protection against web threats:  
• parental control : protects young people while surfing the Net, filters web searches, gives warnings in the case of 
behavior that is judged to be dangerous, allows you to block acces s to sites or apps or limit their use (maximum usage 
time setting);  
                                                                 
1Gambling.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
130 
 • theft protection: protects the device from loss and/or theft, ensuring remote control by sending a simple instruction 
(block device, find device, delete data, SIM change notification);  
• protection and privacy : protects all access to e -commerce, home banking and social media websites. Ensures privacy 
by filtering unwanted calls and messages;  
• antivirus: manages the device securely without affecting its operation, protecting it during use again st viruses, 
malware1 and other threats.  
 
The Company is particularly focusing attention on parental control, with the launch of offers dedicated to the younger 
generation (under 12s) with the TIM Protect service included, at no additional cost. The Company  is also implementing 
co-marketing2 initiatives with certain operating partners in the “kids” segment, which is particularly sensitive to matters 
of child protection. [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -2b] At the end of December 2019, 142,764 TIM Pr otect 
had been activated.  
TIM is constantly looking for ways to develop its offer portfolio to meet customer needs; among other things, an annual 
offer with a TIM Protect license has been available to customers since May 2018.  
TIM also wants to help custom ers to make the best use of the TIM Protect service and, from October 2018, it made a 
freephone number 800 500 500 available; through this, an operator can give the customer step by step assistance and 
maximum support in the installation and use of the TIM  Protect service.  
Since September 2, 2019 TIM has launched a new, clearer and simpler landing page  for the TIM Protect service, to provide 
customers with a better user experience.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -2b] In terms of tackling online c hild pornography and computer crime, from 
an organizational perspective, TIM has established – within the Security Department and, specifically, as part of the 
Security Operations Center (SOC) – the role of “Key Contact for the Postal Police”.  
This person  manages relations, and the flow of information, with the Postal Police3 and the competent authorities, and 
has the task of coordinating, within the TIM Group, the process of abuse management, in accordance with the relevant 
legislative framework. Furtherm ore, TIM has adopted an organizational and management model pursuant to Legislative 
Decree 231/2001, aimed at preventing offenses that may result in liability for the Company.  
 
TIM has deployed resources, technologies, processes and tools to prevent and t ackle “abuse”, i.e. any activity committed 
in violation of the rules of conduct and the legislation that governs the use of network services, digital systems or means 
of communication in general. The SOC oversees the following initiatives and activities:  
• form available on TIM’s corporate and commercial portals, which can be used by TIM’s customers, or by outside users, 
to report any crimes involving child pornography encountered while browsing the internet. There is a guide to 
completion, and reports can a lso be submitted anonymously. This activity is managed in collaboration with the 
Assurance Competence Center, under Open Access/Wholesale, which receives reports and forwards them to be 
managed by the SOC;  
• management of the abuse desks, operational groups that handle abuse differentiated by type of service (set up in 
accordance with national and EU regulations on child protection), the prevention of cybercrime and the fight against 
sexual exploitation (child pornography). The abuse desks receive reports fro m external users/customers on alleged 
cybercrimes or the presence of child pornography on the Group’s networks, then direct them to the relevant 
department, where necessary involving the relevant authorities (through the Key Contact for the Postal Police);  
• filtering: in accordance with the implementing Decree of Law 38/2006 (Gentiloni Decree) which defines the technical 
prerequisites of filtering tools that providers of Internet network connections must use in order to prevent access to 
sites identified by the Postal Police through the CNCPO, TIM has also introduced a filtering system for foreign websites 
with child pornography content;  
                                                                 
1 Software created to compromise the security of a computer or IT systems and devices. The term is a combination of the words m alicious and 
software.  
2 Commercial agreement between companies that have the same ob jective, are not in direct competition and decide to coordinate their 
marketing activities.  
3 CNCPO -National Center for the Fight against Online Child Pornography, CNAIPIC – National Center against Digital Crime for the Protection of 
Critical Infrastructu re. TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
131 
 • gambling: in accordance with Article 1, subsection 50, of Law 296/2006 – on tackling tax evasion and tax avoidance in 
the g ambling sector – and at the request of the Italian Autonomous Administration of State Monopolies (AAMS), TIM 
blocks the resources as and when they are reported, making them inaccessible to customers;  
• tobacco (liquid products containing nicotine intended fo r inhalation without combustion)in compliance with Article 1, 
subsection 50 -bis and 50 -ter of Law 296/2006, and with Executive Decree No. 124538 of 15.11.2017, which integrates 
the provisions of Directorial Decrees of 01/02/2007, 5/29/2007 and 6/10/2008, a t the request of the Customs and State 
Monopolies Agency (AAMS), TIM blocks the resources as and when they are reported, making them inaccessible to its 
customers.  
 
Moreover, TIM participates in the following initiatives:  
• “GSMA - Mobile Alliance against C hild Sexual Abuse Content” in the context of the GSM Association, for technological, 
policy and communications initiatives aimed at protecting children in the mobile phone sector;  
• Alliance to better protect minors online , platform launched by the European Commission as part of the Better Internet 
for Kids (“BIK”) strategy for defining and implementing the principles and technologies required to make the internet 
a safer place for children;  
• Safer Internet Center  (SIC) – Connected Generations (national center for promoting safe and positive use of the 
internet and digital technologies, co -financed by the European Commission as part of the Connecting Europe Facility  
and coordinated by the Italian Ministry of Educat ion, Universities and Research), where it is a member of the Advisory 
Board . In 2019 TIM continued its digital educational activities through the ScuolaDigitale TIM project;  
• “Convention for implementing a device to generate Missing Child Alert” launched wi th the Italian Ministry of the 
Interior, Department of Public Security.  
 
Moreover, the Group has activated appropriate filtering and abuse prevention systems, including for services provided in 
Brazil : images, backgrounds, video streaming, audio content (p odcasts) together with brief erotic information via SMS 
and images via MMS (in partnership with a content provider). Customers can buy adult content services (wallpapers, 
videos, podcast) through the WAP portal main page and, to access, they must click on “ADULT” (available on the main 
page of the portal), declare that they are of age and insert a password. TIM Participações restricts the portfolio of adult 
content to level 3.2 of the international classification.   
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
132 
 Product responsibility  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 416] [GRI 417] [GRI 419]  The 2019 materiality analysis confirmed customer 
relations quality as a material topic which, for the TIM Group, also incorporates responsibility for the products and service s 
offered.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 416] [GRI 417] [GRI 419]  TIM is primarily an operator of telecommunications 
services, which do not endanger the physical health of users1, and it does not produce the telecommunications equipment 
it sells.   
In order to verify tha t the products placed on the market comply with health and safety legislation, the Company has:  
• appropriate internal structures that check the incoming quality of the products it markets (fixed and cordless 
telephones2, access gateways3, etc.), both in Ita ly and in the production centers of manufacturers overseas;  
• laboratories that test the products marketed by the Group, particularly as regards the electromagnetic emissions of 
the mobile devices4. 
 
In this way, any non -conformities of products are detected  prior to their market release, ensuring that products that do 
not conform with the essential requirements of the European Directives do not reach the end customer.  
Services provided to customers are subject to the requirements set out in the Service Chart ers and in the Terms & 
Conditions of Subscription, available at telecomitalia.com.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 416] [GRI 417] [GRI 419]  This paragraph describes the management approach 
assessments for each of the above mentioned Standards, with the relative methods used and results.  
 
[GRI 416 -1] In its laboratories, TIM validates the satisfaction of the essential requirements envisaged by the current 
Directives for the release of CE marking; conformity with these requirements is certified at source by the manufacturer.  
For products sold in Italy, the reference framework is the set of standards that support RED Directive 2014/53/EU,  EMC  
Directive52014/30/EU, and Low Voltage Directive 2014/35/EU, divided by product macro -family6. 
In relation to  electrical safety in the use of equipment by customers, as required by the Low Voltage Directive 2014/35/EU, 
TIM carries out checks on the technical provisions introduced to reduce the risk of electrocution, overheating, fire and 
mechanical hazards, by ap plying standards EN 60950 -1, EN 60065 and EN62368 -1. 
 
Furthermore, TIM checks:  
• energy efficiency aspects, required by Directive 2009/125/EC ErP (Energy -related Products), as equipment placed on 
the market, are checked against the stand -by/off -mode power c onsumption and performance limits set by European 
Regulations 1275/2008/EC, 801/2013/EC and 278/2009/EC, for equipment and their external power supplies (available 
as accessories);  
• device functionality under various environmental conditions of terminal installation and use including potential 
accessory components for connection to the fixed network is checked. Checks are carried out in compliance with 
temperature and humidity ranges established by ETSI (European Telecommunications Standards Institute) st andards 
for the specific “service condition”, on which different “severity” levels are based. The checks are carried out based on 
the provisions of the ETSI EN 300019 standards, with the tests set out under IEC -EN series 60068 -2-1 (cold), 2 (dry 
heat), 14 (temperature changes), 30 (moisture changes), 78 (continuous humidity);  
• electromagnetic compatibility, regulated by Directive 2014/30/EU, since unintentional electromagnetic signal 
emissions are checked – to avoid interference that can harm radio communica tion – and to fulfil certain 
electromagnetic interference immunity requirements.  In TIM, constant checks are carried out on terminals and 
                                                                 
1  Threats of a psychological, security and privacy nature are dealt with in the paragraphs Protection of Minors, E -security, Privacy.  
2Wireless.  
3Concentrator for voice, data and video traffic  of residential customers on telecommun ications networks  for private use.  
4  In 2019, ten mobile network devices were checked in TIM laboratories .  
5  Electro Magnetic Compatibility . 
6 For “Corded terminals” (connected with a cord), the following standards may be applied: EN 55022 and EN 55024,  EN 55032, EN 55035, EN 60950 
and EN62368 -1; for “Cordless terminals” (wireless), standards EN 301489 -1, EN 301406, EN 50371, EN 60950 -1, EN 62311 and ITU -T P360; for 
“mobile terminals (smartphones, data cards etc.)”, standards EN 300328, EN 300440, EN 301 489, EN 301511, EN301893, EN 301908, EN 302291, 
EN 60950 -1 and EN 62209.  
 
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
133 
 network equipment to determine whether they comply with the requirements of international ETSI, CENELEC1 
standards re garding electromagnetic compatibility.  In particular, checks are carried out on the compliance of 
equipment with the limits set by standards to limit the emission of electromagnetic disturbances which, in addition 
to polluting the surrounding environment, can interfere with radio communications.  
 
To promote sustainable development in its areas of influence - in addition to the mandatory requirements for electrical 
safety law, energy consumption and EMC on marketed equipment, TIM also carries out checks on e lectrical (in compliance 
with the series K ITU -T2 Recommendations) and mechanical robustness (in compliance with the installation classes 
required by the European standard ETSI EN 300019) requirements, so as to reduce waste disposal of electrical and 
elect ronic waste (WEEE) from the very beginning. Ensuring equipment placed on the market of has an adequate level of 
electrical and mechanical robustness, in line with the expected stress in the field, reduces the rate of equipment failure 
and, therefore, the q uantity of waste to be sent to the appropriate disposal facilities. The addition of these robustness 
requirements, also within TIM apparatus specifications, requires the manufacturer to use adequate protection devices on 
the electrical interfaces of device s, such as overvoltage and overcurrent limiters, with the consequent reduction in the 
number of destructive failures; with such technical expedients, it follows that equipment functionality can be easily 
recovered by replacing a few components in repair ce nters.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 416] [GRI 417]  By law, telecommunications equipment sold in Brazil  must be 
approved by the regulatory authority ANATEL, which verifies, in its laboratories, conformity with Brazilian legislation on 
electrical and electromagnetic safety. There is specific ad hoc legislation to be complied with for each kind of equipment; 
TIM Participações asks its suppliers to ensure that devices have the ANATEL certificate of approval.   
 
 [GRI 416 -2] Over the past three years, no non -conformities with European customer health and safety legislation have 
been found in any product that has  reached the final marketing stage, neither in Italy nor in Brazil.  
 
[GRI 417 -1] When contracts are drafted, for all fixed telephony products, TIM requires packaging to include an 
environmental statement, a statement about the origin of the tantalum if it  has been used in the components, a user 
manual containing safety information, details of any hazardous materials in the product and disposal information. With 
regard to labelling of mobile devices, as they are consumer products that TIM merely resells and  do not require any 
customization, the Company simply requires national legislation to be complied with.  
 
[GRI 417 -1] In Brazil,  in addition to compliance with national legislation, TIM Participações requires information on the 
correct use of equipment; T IM Participações does not have the procedures on the information and labels on products and 
services. However, contracts with suppliers of mobile devices include a ‘product packaging’ clause, which requires that 
each box contain instructions for the correc t use of both the product, the accessory kit and of the connection jacks 
associated with the product.  
 
For a particular product range, TIM eco -friendly, discussed in detail in the Environment chapter ( TIM ecofriendly ), all the 
relevant environmental parameters are also shown (e.g. energy consumption).   
 
[GRI 417 -2] Over the past three years, no non -conformities regarding product information and labelling have been found 
in any product that has reached the final marke ting stage (100% tested for fixed and mobile terminals).  
 
There have however been a few cases in which non -conformities with regulations concerning information and “labelling” 
of services have been found. In particular, T IM Participações  has only received financial penalties; that is, in 2019 four 
incidents occurred for which ANATEL issued total penalties of 247,132 reais, in 2018 three incidents occurred for total 
penalties of 397,009 reais and in 2017 13 incidents occurred for total penalties of 896,730 r eais (in respect of the 
guarantees and rights to protect users)  
The regulatory Authority’s sanctioning procedures for non -conformities with regulations regarding information on 
services are part of the system of “penalties for the violation of regulatory legislation regarding consumer protection in 
                                                                 
1 European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization.  
2  International Telecommunication Union - Telecommunication  Standardization  Sector.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
134 
 the supply and use of TLC products and services”; this means that, for Italy, non -conformities regarding information on 
services have been merged with non -conformities regarding the supply and use of services (t able below).  
 
[GRI 419 -1] Number and value total cash in fines  – by the Italian Antitrust Authority (AGCM) – for non -compliance with 
laws and regulations concerning the supply and the use of products and services in Italy.  
 
 
Description  20191 20182 20173 
    
Number of fines for non -conformities regarding 
the supply and use of products and services  1 3 3 
Total monetary value of these fines (in euros)  200,000  6,600,000  2,350,000  
 
[GRI 419 -1] Number and total value of fines - by AGCom (National Telecoms Regulator) - for non compliance with laws 
and regulations concerning the supply and the use of products and services in Italy.  
 
 
 
Description  
 20194 20185 20166 
Number of fines for non-conformities regarding 
the supply and use of products and services  2 10 3 
Total monetary value of these fines (in euros)  1,664,000  4,027,000  1,422,000  
 
 
 
                                                                 
1The fine relates to a proceeding initiated and concluded in 2019 whose sentence was to pay 200 thousand euros for misleading advertising for 
the Fibra offer. Three proceedings were opened in 2019; one, for winback actions and pre -activated services, ended in January 2020 with a 
sentence to pay €4,800,000, the other 2 proceedings are still pending (expected end date: May 2020).  
2 In 2018 AGCM closed three proceedings, two initiated in 2017 and one in 2018. Of the proceedings initiated in 2017, one ended  with a fine of 4.8 
million euros (misleading advertising messages for the TIM Smart Fibra offer) and one was archived. The third proceeding, sta rted in 2018, 
ended with a fine of 1.8 million euros (unfair commercial practices in recovery actions). 
3  In 2017 AGCM opened five proceedings against TIM, one of which closed with undertakings (accepted by AGCM on a proposal from TIM), two 
with fine (one of 300,000 euros for non -compliance with Judgement 10,246 and the other of 50,000 euros for non -complianc e on oppressive 
clauses) and two to close in 2018 (one for misleading advertising of the TIM Smart Fibra offer and the other for breach of do micile provision for 
dispatching invoice by e -mail).  In July 2017 the procedure on the right to rethink, initiated  in 2016, ended with fine of 2,000,000 Euros.  
4 The two fines relate to a proceeding started in 2018 that ended with an order to pay 1.2 million Euros for failure to issue a  37/18/CONS warning, 
and a proceeding started in 2019 that ended with an order to p ay 464 thousand Euros for the TIM Safe WEB services offered to Business 
customers. Two other cases were opened in 2019 and remain pending at the beginning of 2020.  
5  In 2018 AGCom completed ten proceedings, of which five had started in 2017 and five in 20 18. Of the ten cases, one was closed with a settlement 
offer and the other nine with fines, i.e. 170,000 Euros for failure to carry out portability and migration procedures; 1,160, 000 Euros for unclear 
and incomplete information on the available basic rate  plans; 58,000 Euros for violating compliance of minimum US (Universal Service) quality 
objectives; 116,000 Euros for violating transparency and spending control; 696,000 Euros for billing cycles violation; 87,000  Euros and 232,000 
Euros transparency viola tion; 464,000 Euros and 1,044,000 Euros for violating the ius variandi  law (presumption of harassment).  
6 In 2017, AGCom started eight proceedings against TIM of which:  
• one ended with archiving;  
• two concluded with fine (one of 30,000 euros for breach of t he regulations on access, the other 1,160,000 euros for breach of the regulations 
on billing cycles);  
• five to close in 2018 (non -execution of migration/portability procedures, lack of information on basic plans and passage free of charge toward 
the mobile price plans, violation of quality obligations laid down by AGCom Resolution, breach of art.1 subsection 31 Law 249/97, violat ion of 
transparency legislation).  
In 2017, the proceedings started in 2016 for breach of the quality obligations laid down by AGCo m Resolution were completed, with fine of 
232,000 euros.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
135 
 [GRI 419 -1] The number and total monetary value of the fines for non -conformities with laws and regulations regarding 
the supply and use of products and services in Brazil , imposed by ANATEL.  
 
Description  20191 2018  2017  
Number of fines for non -conformities regarding 
the supply and use of products and services  0 9 4 
Total monetary value of these fines (in reais)  0 180,123  2,467,722  
 
 
 [GRI 417 -3] Overall number of non conformities with legislation and voluntary codes regarding marketing 
communications in Italy.  
 
Type of non -conformity  2019  2018  2017  
Number of non -conformities with legislation 
resulting in a fine or penalty  0 0 0 
Number of non -conformities with legislation 
resulting in a warning  0 1 0 
Number of non -conformities with voluntary 
codes2 0 2 1 
 
  
[GRI 417 -3] In Brazil the only notifications relating to advertising and marketing communications are issued by CONAR3, 
a non -governmental self -regulation organisation for advertising which assesses non -conformities with the Brazilian 
Advertising Code of Conduct (“CBAP”) and can recommend that the company change/correct or suspend the advertising 
(it does not impose finan cial penalties); CONAR seeks to ensure that each advertisement is true, honest, and compliant 
with the laws of the country and the principle of fair competition.  The infringement proceedings may be closed if the 
parties reach a settlement, if the perpetrat ors cease the infringement or if the violation of the Code of Ethics has not been 
demonstrated.  
In 2019 TIM Participações  received eight notifications from CONAR (three promoted by competitors Claro and Nextel and 
five by CONAR), to which it expressed its opposition.  CONAR has ordered the closure for three cases and a marketing 
modification for three other cases; in one case the parties reached agreement, while in the last case the parties reached 
a partial agreement for which they are awaiting a decision.   
ANATEL can impose fines or warnings in the event of non -compliant “general marketing communications”. In 2019, 
ANATEL did not impose such sanctions on TIM Participações, while it had imposed a sanction of 280,984 reais in 2018 
and one of 70,471 reais in 2017 (the latter two related to unclear Company business information).  
  
                                                                 
1Taking only significant fines into consideration, i.e. those exceeding 500,000 reais, TIM Participações did not receive any d uring 2019. TIM paid 
two fines in 2019; the first of 11,484,107 reais, or dered by an agency that protects consumer rights, for non -compliance with customer service 
standards (call center). The other was of 244,551 reais, imposed by another agency as a result of various customer complaints  (contracts, 
invoicing, etc.).  
2  The cases are regulated by the Institute of Advertising Self -Regulation, which operates in compliance with the code of commercial 
communication and is competent in defining all disputes relating to advertising involving the associated subjects, directly o r ind irectly. Jury's 
decisions do not involve financial penalties but, if required, a withdrawal order of the contested marketing message.  
3 Conselho Nacional de Autoregulamentação Publicitária.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
136 
 Safeguarding privacy and personal data protection  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 418]  The 2019 materiality analysis identified the safeguarding of privacy and 
personal data protection as a material topic for the Group.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 418]  Respecting privacy regulations is a priority for TIM, which since 2003 has 
had a structured organizational model in place which is capable of overseeing the correct application of this legislation 
at Group level. Company departments are committed to ensuring the correct processing of personal data of data 
subjects, including custome rs and employees, in carrying out business activities.  
In May 2018, the Data Protection Officer function was established at TIM Group level, dealing with control, consultation, 
training and information regarding the application of privacy legislation, in compliance with the specific provisions of 
Regulation (EU) no. 2016/679 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data (so -called 
"General Data Protection Regulation," or GDPR), applicable in Italy and in the other countrie s of the European Union from 
May 25, 2018.  
The GDPR is the primary source of the applicable regulatory framework on data protection in Italy and the Personal Data 
Protection Code (Legislative Decree 196/2003, as extensively amended by Legislative Decree 1 01/2018) now contains the 
national provisions completing those of the GDPR.   
The adoption of legal measures and the instructions of the Italian Data Protection Authority for personal data protection 
is assured by constantly updating the Group regulations and policies. Of these, the “System of rules for the application of 
the regulations relating to the protection of personal data in the TIM Group” (System of Rules) is particularly important; 
it defines the provisions and operating instructions to comply wi th these provisions.  
Already in the course of 2018, the System of Rules was thoroughly revised in the light of the application of the GDPR; in 
2019, the System of Rules was further updated with reference to regulatory developments, in particular in relatio n to 
Legislative Decree 101/2018, which adapted the Privacy Code to the GDPR, and to the additional provisions of the law and 
the Italian Data Protection Authority's Decisions that followed during the year.  
In 2019, the work continued to adapt policies and  procedures, including those setting out data breach1 obligations 
(extended to all types of personal data) and those regulating the management of the requests of data subjects 
concerning the exercise of their rights regarding personal data protection.  
With regard to training, the online training module on GDPR, already prepared in 2018 for the start of GDPR application, 
was updated and its mandatory use was extended to all TIM Group employees; this form must also be used by newly 
recruited staff.  
In add ition, specific measures have been planned for certain company sectors. An ad hoc training course has been set up 
for TIM's customer care resources (consumer and business), as well as for outsourcer staff, who have a coordinating and 
supervisory role. The course focused on topics of interest such as:  
i) processing of customer/prospect requests concerning the exercise of privacy rights;  
ii) data breach and management. In all, 11 training sessions were held with the participation of about 400 people. An 
online training module on the above topics was prepared for Customer Care employees.  
TIM’s management staff tasked with managing relations with other electronic communication operators, as well as with 
the activation and technical assistance activities for eq uipment and connections, was the target of a training course on 
the topic of data breaches , which saw the participation of 37 TIM employees.  
Finally, as part of training on Big Data Transformation , a module on the GDPR and Big Data, delivered in several ed itions 
and attended by 50 employees of the TIM departments involved, was organized.   
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 418 -1] The effective application of the internal policies is monitored through an 
extensive control system based on regular self -assessment procedures, sample checks carried out by the relevant central 
and regional departments, based on established procedures and methods, as well as for planned and identified second 
level controls, also due to the inherent risk level of processing.  
In the light of these activities, the Personal Data Processing Activity Register was revised and updated, with the support 
of a special IT tool, both to further improve its compliance with GDPR provisions and with a view to its use as a corporate 
compliance catalogue, to address the compliance requirements of Information Technology systems, identify possible 
areas for improvement and manage the related action plans.  
  
                                                                 
1 Data breach.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
137 
 Finally, also during the course of 2019, TIM continued to take the steps required to ensure the implementation of 
provisions in its internal processes to deal with any violation of personal data security (so -called “data breaches”), as well 
as to respond t o the numerous customer requests (for example, to know what personal data is being processed by TIM 
or exercise other rights) and the information requests submitted to TIM by the Italian Data Protection Authority.  
 
The table below shows:  
(i) the informat ion requests made to TIM, in Italy, by the Italian Data Protection Authority, including those made following 
reports/complaints by customers;  
(ii) the answers provided to requests for the exercise of privacy rights made by TIM customers to Customer Care o r directly 
to the Data Protection Officer.  
 
 2019  2018  2017  
Requests received (number of cases/complaints 
reported)  116 71 124 
Replies to requests for the exercise of customers' 
privacy rights addressed to TIM Customer Care  864,417  583,285  - 
 -of which answers to requests for the exercise of 
privacy rights made by customers directly to the 
Data Protection Officer  2,680  867*  - 
 
* Data referring to the period 05/25/18 (effective date of the GDPR) as of 12/31/18.  
 
  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 418]  In Brazil , TIM Participações believes that the confidentiality of customer 
information is a primary commitment for telecommunications companies and monitors its systems uninterruptedly in 
order to prevent and detect any unauthorized acc ess attempts.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 418]  As pursuant to article 5 of the Federal Constitution, and article 3 of the 
General Law on Telecommunications No. 9,472 of 1997, the right of customers to the confidentiality of their personal data 
is established (with the exception of cases provided for b y the law). The Personal Mobile Service regulation, in articles 89, 
90 and 91 of Resolution No. 477 of the national telecommunications agency (ANATEL), requires companies to take 
responsibility in this respect and establishes that any waiver of confidentia lity must take place only if requested by the 
relevant authority in the cases provided for by law. The 2014 Federal Law (Marco Civil) No. 12,965 ( Brazilian Civil Rights 
Framework for the Internet ), under articles 10 and 11, ensures the privacy and protecti on of personal data for Internet 
users.  
On August 14, 2018 the President of the Republic approved the General Data Protection Act No. 13,709/2018, which will 
come into force in August 2020. This law applies to any data processing by a legal person or entit y under the control of 
public or private companies, regardless of the area and country in which the headquarters are located or in which the 
data is located, on condition that:  
• the processing is carried out in the national territory;  
• the purpose of data processing is the provision of goods or services or the processing of data of persons located in the 
national territory;  
• the personal data subject to processing has been collected in the national territory.  
 
To guarantee the confidenti ality of the its customers’ information, in accordance with national legislation (including 
Articles 10 and 11 of the “Marco Civil”), TIM Participações has issued relevant internal policies and procedures to ensure 
the confidentiality of information relati ng to its customers, based on the “ need to know ” principle (personal data 
processing is restricted to the minimum required to carry out the work) and the separation of duties. These policies and 
procedures set out the methods for the classification and man agement of information to guarantee suitable protection 
levels.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
138 
 In 2019, TIM Participações updated its policy on the confidentiality of customer data to ensure that access to the recording 
and communication of customer data is only allowed to employees wh o use this information in their work. TIM carries 
out its activities in accordance with ISO 27001, the international standard that describes the best practice for information 
security management, although it has not yet obtained the relevant certification.   
 In the event that a customer submits a complaint for violation of privacy, Tim Participações assesses the situation and 
provides clarification to resolve any problems (even potential ones). Customers have access to privacy information when 
they sign TIM  plans according to the terms and conditions of the contract (the update of which is currently in progress to 
comply with the General Regulation on Data Protection, which will take effect in August 2020).  
TIM Participações continuously monitors its systems  to prevent and detect any attempt at unauthorized access. 
Employees and service providers are aware of the need to adopt data security measures and all providers offering value 
added services (VAS) must sign a non -disclosure agreement with TIM Participaçõ es. 
TIM has a number of specific technological resources to support management of this issue, such as data loss prevention 
(DLP), identity management, content filtering, the Cyber Security Operations Center (CSOC), etc.  
 
The BSO/Cyber & ICT Security dep artment is responsible for updating policies and procedures, ensuring compliance and 
governance of information security, through the involvement of all relevant departments, as well as disclosure and 
compliance with the guidelines within TIM Participações.  
 
Moreover, the company is committed to complying with the Sarbanes -Oxley Act, in accordance with its guidelines, 
relating to internal controls for privacy, control and protection of personal data.  
In addition, the company’s anti -corruption program includ es an organizational business model, available online on the 
Intranet, which guarantees personal data processing in compliance with the rights and dignity of the persons involved 
and within the limits of what is necessary for processing. The model is compl iant with Italian Legislative Decree No. 231/01, 
Brazilian anti -corruption law No. 12,846/2013 and international standards, such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
(FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act.  
In accordance with Organizational Design1 no. 1347/18 - which comprises the appointment of the Data Protection Officer 
(Data Protection Officer), the action model for the application of the regulations, the adequacy of the activities and the 
assessment of the related impacts in accordance with Brazilian law no.  13,709/2018, concerning data protection (LGPD in 
Portuguese) - it is hereby stated that the Privacy Committee is coordinated by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO).  
Within the Committee, the Compliance department continues to be tasked with carrying out the  actions necessary to 
comply with the LGPD, in concertation with the departments involved in the issue.  
The Committee breaks down as follows:  
• Legal,  
• Regulatory, Institutional and Press Relations,  
• Business Support Officer,  
• Chief Technology Information Offic er, 
• Chief Revenue Officer,  
• Human Resources & Organization.  
 
In 2019 - based on the Compliance Program drawn up to achieve compliance of TIM Participações with the Brazilian law 
on general data protection - the Company held seminars to spread the culture of  privacy for the heads of all company 
departments.  
 
Below follow the requests for information by the Authority pursuant to a suspension of the privacy law:  
• wiretappings: 381,113 (the total number includes what has been done on its own system, which may als o include 
possible duplications for different Authorities);  
• recording data: 513.468*;  
• telephone or connection excerpts 595.728*.  
 
* The number includes the requests that have been answered manually and the requests forwarded directly by the competent auth orities through 
the web service provided for this purpose.  
                                                                 
1 Organizational project.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
139 
  
 [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 418] [GRI 418 -1] TIM Participações:  
• at December 31, 2019 there were 892 pending complaints from customers, of which 801 were opened in 2019, 84 in 
2018 and 7  in 2017;  
• in 2019, 372 complaints were closed. The Judicial Authority decided in favor of TIM Participações in 112 cases, against 
the Company in 130 cases and the remaining 130 were closed through a settlement between the parties.  
In 2019, complaints on t his issue increased significantly for all telecommunications companies, not only for TIM 
Participações . 
Anatel has not yet released any analysis on complaints received about customer privacy violations.  
 
It should be noted that the difference between the legislation of Italy and Brazil does not allow for any comparisons to 
be drawn between homogeneous data.    
 
 
 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 418] Research and innovation in e -security  
 
TIM is involved both in research and in innovation regarding cyber security and more generally the security of information 
and networks. Activities carried out in 2019 included the following:  
 
• the development and application of machine learning1 algorithm s and artificial intelligence for the evaluation and 
prediction of the risk level of potentially dangerous e -mail messages and the automatic classification of malware 
samples;  
• implementation of the responsible disclosure program2 to collect and manage vuln erability reports on TIM services, 
products or equipment spontaneously provided by customers, researchers or security experts. The persons filing 
reports are confident that the vulnerabilities are managed within a guaranteed timeframe and undertake to keep  
what they discover confidential until the countermeasures can be applied;  
• the creation of a forensic analysis laboratory to support the investigation and analysis activities carried out in case of 
hacking;  
• ongoing work on the development of a proprietary threat intelligence platform3 to support the collection, analysis and 
consumption of intelligence on new security threats; The relevant issues addressed during the year included: the 
development of criteria for estimating the level of confidence, reliability and relevance of the infor mation acquired, 
the upgrading of breach indicators, and the integration of multiple sources;  
• participation in the work of the four -year project CONCORDIA4 (Cyber security cOmpeteNCe fOr Research anD 
InnovAtion5), as part of the European research programme  Horizon 2020, and in particular the initiative "Establishing 
and operating a pilot for a Cybersecurity Competence Network to develop and implement a common Cybersecurity 
Research & Innovation Roadmap6" with a focus on Intelligence platforms, tools and pro cesses;  
• overseeing and steering the activities of the 7GSMA (GSM Association) Fraud and Security Group, as Deputy Chair;  
• the collaboration, within the scope and 3GPP8 SA9 SECAM10, for the definition of the security requirements and test 
methods on devices f or 3GPP standard (SECAM) networks and those for the security of 5G infrastructure;  
                                                                 
1 Machine learning programs.  
2 Procedure to report the vulnerabilities of IT systems, leaving the recipient the necessary time to identify and apply the app ropriate 
countermeasures, before disclosing them publicly.  
3 Threat intelligence platform.  
4  https://www.concordia -h2020.eu/  
5 Expertise in cyber security for research and innovation.  
6 Establishing and managing a pilot project for a cyber security skills network in order to develop and implement a com mon roadmap for research 
and innovation in cyber security.  
7 Fraud and security.  
8 The 3rd Generation Partnership Project.  
9 Security Assurance . 
10 SECurity Assurance Methodology . 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
140 
 • participation, within the ETSI1, in the work of TC CYBER focused on cyber security and the ETNO2 field, NSecFC WG 
(Network and Services Security, Fraud and Cybercrime3), and  more specifically the CERT TF (Computer Emergency 
Response Team Task Force4); 
• the implementation of various scouting activities to identify and assess emerging and/or innovative security solutions 
including cyber range technologies (environments/platforms  for training and education of personnel on cyber security 
issues and challenges) and cyber deception technologies (technology that tries to deceive hackers by realistically 
replicating the characteristics and components of company networks and making them  believe that they are hacking 
the company perimeter and have come into possession of sensitive data relating to devices/systems present in the 
network);  
• the implementation of multiple security campaigns testing5 to assess the level and adequacy of new eq uipment, 
instruments, and devices in terms of security.  
 
 
Smart Services  
[GRI 203 -1] [GRI 203 -2] In the context of public sector services and businesses, in accordance with the Italian Digital 
Agenda (ADI) and European Directives, in 2019 TIM consolidated and streamlined its Smart Services offer (security, 
energy efficiency, environmental and digital  services in urban areas, analytics to support sustainable choices from the 
point of view of local and central government) with the aim of promoting the Smart City model to improve the quality 
of life through the development of innovative digital services that move municipalities to a Smart Community model 
(as indicated by the Digital Agenda), to enable new forms of collaboration between citizens, businesses and public 
administrators.  
 
SMART LIGHTING / 
SMART PARKING  Integrated management of the local infras tructural networks and construction of the Smart City 
environments.  
6Revenues: over 100,000 euro.  
 
Enabled services:  
• planning of electricity consumption and maintenance. Energy saving is estimated within a range 
between 15% (light produced by high -efficien cy lamps, e.g. LEDs) and over 30% in the case of light 
produced by old style lamps (e.g. sodium vapor or incandescence). Added to these values is the option 
of varying lighting by switching on and/or reducing the intensity of individual lamp posts;  
• Smart s ensor -based parking spaces to optimize the distribution of parking spaces in the local area.  
TIM FLEET 
TRACKING E  
 TIM YOUR WAY  Location and fleet management combined with vehicle telemetry identification and detection systems.  
Revenues: 5,800,000 euros.  
Enabled services:  
• planning of services and routes;  
• reduction of pollutant emissions;  
• driver identification solutions, telemetry control;  
• solutions for the transport of materials and goods at controlled temperature;  
• driver and vehicle safety services.  
 
TIM ENERGREEN 
AND SMART 
BUILDING  Remote management of energy consumption, implemented on TIM assets and services, for the purpose 
of saving energy.  
Revenues: 1,552 K euros.  
 
Enabled services:  
• on-site energy audit: on-site analysis for energy efficiency;  
• Metering & Reporting ; 
                                                                 
1 European Telecommunications Standards Institute . 
2 European Telecommunicati ons Network Operators’ Association . 
3 Network and services security, fraud and cybercrime.  
4 Computer Emergency Response Team Task Force.  
5 Safety tests  
6 The revenues from this are not high as it is offered together with other products.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
141 
 • Efficiency strategy  (advanced reporting and Energy Management  consulting services);  
• Energy Cost Management Services ; 
• Special Project : ad hoc  efficiency improvement work.  
 
TIM WASTE 
MANAGEMENT  Management of environmental services and waste delivered for collection by road or door -to-door.  
Revenues: 270,000 euros  
 
Enabled services:  
• management and control of the means of collection;  
• automatic recording of the collections using bag reading tags and mechanical bin pick -up by the vehicle;  
• service certification report;  
service planning by defining collection routes and managing the areas concerned  
. 
TIM CITY FORECAST  Statistical data to help local authorities to monitor the number of people present in the area, their social 
and demographic characteristics and movements over time, to optimize the services offered to citizens 
and enhance the area. The service is based on advanced TIM mobile network data processing in full 
respect of privacy.  
Revenues: 326 thousand euro contracted in 2019.  
 
TIM City Forecast allows in particular to:  
• quantitatively assess public mobility patterns continuously and reliably;  
• evaluate the vehicular flow of a city or area for planning the vehicular traffic patterns ; 
• understand the characteristics of tourist flows to optimize and monitor the development of the tourist 
and cultural offer over time;  
• know in near real -time the density of the areas in question;  
 
TIM WATCH OVER 
AND OTHER VIDEO 
SERVICES  Software application designed for the management of video surveillan ce systems in public areas, indoor 
and outdoor. It allows you to monitor the area in terms of security and prevention.  
The images are also securely stored in the TIM cloud and made available for possible checks by law 
enforcement agencies.  
Video surveillan ce revenue: 280 K euros.  
 
Enabled services:  
• customization of the areas to be monitored;  
• sending event alarms;  
• integrating existing IP cameras, safeguarding investments already made.  
 
DIGITAL SCHOOL KIT  Integrated digital management of teaching and school administration1. The offer can be configured 
according to the requirements (by order and degree) of the different schools and includes a range of 
integrated modular services with assisted and integrated management.  
 
Enabled services:  
• enabling infrastructure (fixed internet, Wi -Fi & security connectivity);  
• digital teaching services (teaching platform, application integrated with school e -book stores, with 
which schools can organize activities, training courses, and individual and collaborative s tudy);  
• catalogue of turnkey products and services (creation and/or expansion of relationships, MDM 2, high 
definition monitors, furnishings, accessories and much more).  
 
                                                                 
1 TIM acts as a representative of technology to support schools on the path of digital renewal, making available its expertise in the field of IT and 
data networks.  
2 Mobile Device Management , the definition of best practice  guidelines and those for providers of solutions for centralized management and 
security of smartphones and mobile devices.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
142 
 In the three years 2020 -2022, the smart city and digital territory segment will be one  of the reference verticals. They will 
strongly contribute to the development of revenues in the IoT (Internet of Things) segment, whose growth is estimated 
with a 2X factor in the period 2019 -2022.  
The Olivetti Smart Lighting1 system combines the replacement of traditional lighting with low energy consumption LED 
lights with the optimization of lighting system management through wireless technology remote control, allowing for 
savings of up to 65%. Assuming an average consumptio n per capita for public lighting in Italy of about 99.8 kWh2 and 
considering a 50% consumption reduction for a municipality of 100,000 inhabitants using this lighting system, it would 
be possible to achieve overall annual energy savings of 4,990,000 kWh, e qual to a 1,926t reduction of CO 2 emissions 
(Scope 2)3. 
TIM's Waste Management service is the offer for managing ecological and waste services provided for door -to-door 
collection or stored in street collection containers. Through more integrated solutions  of collection vehicles and hands -
free operators, it is possible to fully manage the waste collection cycle and ecological services in general such as, for 
example, rubbish and decoration of urban areas.  
TIM's Fleet Tracking service and the other TIM Your Way solutions services address the management and monitoring of 
the car park and commercial vehicles. Integrated solutions ranging from integrated platform services to devices 
permanently installed in vehicles, help us to control and reduce fuel consumptio n, substantially cut the emission of 
pollutants, ensure the safety of staff who drive vehicles and implement a car -sharing system for the use of vehicles in 
shared mode.  
  
                                                                 
1 Olivetti.com/it/iot -big-data/soluzioni -iot/smart -lighting .  
2 Calcu lation based on data from Terna (the Italian electricity transmission system operator) and ISTAT (the Italian National Instit ute of 
Statistics), relating to December 2017.  
3 Using the same emission factor used by TIM in this Report for Scope 2 emissions re porting, i.e. 0.386 kg CO 2/kWh.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
143 
 Results and Objectives  
2018 and 2019 Results  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] The results achieved are shown below, compared to the 
objectives published in the previous Sustainability Report for the year 2019 and in relation to only stakeholder Customers 
for the year 2018(1). 
 
TIM S.p.A. – Customers(2) 
 
Area of reference   
Indicator (1)  Unit of 
measure
ment  Target 
2018  Final 
figures 2018  Target 
status 
2018*  Target 
2019  
CUSTOMERS  – MOBILE  Activation time for voice service (pre -paid 
service) – Percentage of valid orders 
completed within the maximum period 
laid down by contract.  % 97 100 ● 97 
CUSTOMERS  – MOBILE  Activation time for voice service (post -paid 
service) – Percentage of valid orders 
completed within the maximum period 
laid down in the contract  % 97 100 ● 97 
CUSTOMERS  – MOBILE  Disputed charges – Ratio between the 
number of disputed charges in invoices 
received within the survey period and the 
number of invoices issued in the same 
period (post -paid service)  % 1.2 0.68  ● 1.2 
CUSTOMERS  – MOBILE  Disputed charges – Ratio between the 
number of disputed charges on pre -paid 
cards within the survey period and the 
average number of active SIM/USIM in the 
same period (pre -paid service)  % 1.2 0.48  ● 1.2 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Activation time for broadband Internet 
access services – Percentage of valid 
orders completed within the date agreed 
with the customer (active telephone lines)  % 95 98.5 ● 95 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Activation time for broadband internet 
access services – Average time of supply 
(active telephone lines)  Days  9 4 ● 9 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Activation time for broadband Internet 
access services – Percentage of valid 
orders completed within the date agreed 
with the customer (new active telephone 
lines and transferred telephone lines)  % 95 99.2 ● 95 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Activation time for broadband internet 
access services – Average time of supply 
(new active telephone lines and 
transferred telephone lines)  Days  15 9 ● 15 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Broadband Internet access service faults  – 
Ratio between the effective number of 
malfunction reports and the average 
number of broadband access lines  % 12 7.1 ● 12 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Broadband Internet access service faults – 
Average repair time  Hours  26 20 ● 26 
CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Broadband Internet access service faults - 
Percentage of fault repairs completed 
within the maximum time contractually 
established  % 92 95 ● 92 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
144 
 CUSTOMERS  – FIXED 
INTERNET  Disputed charges - Ratio between the 
number of disputed charges in bills 
regarding all internet access services 
(received during the survey period) and 
the total number of bills issued in the 
same period (broadband access service s) % 1.4 0.4 ● 1.4 
 
(*) Target Status:  
● reached;  
● not reached.  
 
The actual figures of the above mentioned objectives for 2019 will be available in July 2020 on the www.tim.it  and www.timbusiness.it  websites.  
(2) The full list of quality indicators, and the respective objectives for them, is available on the www.tim.it  and www.timbusiness.it  websites. The 
above objectives are established by AGCom, with resolution no. 154/12/CONS for “mobile” services and resolutions No. 131/06/C SP, 244/08/CSP, 
400/10/CONS and 151/12/CONS for fixed internet access services.  
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
145 
 2020 and  multi -annual targets  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] The objectives for 2020 are shown below.  
TIM S.p.A. – Customers(1)      
Area of 
reference  Indicator  Unit of 
measurement  Target 2020  
Customers - 
Mobile  Activation time for voice service (pre -paid service) – Percentage of 
valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the 
contract  % 97 
Customers - 
Mobile  Activation time for voice service (post -paid service) – Percentage of 
valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the 
contract  % 97 
Customers - 
Mobile  Disputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in 
invoices received within the survey period and the number of invoices 
issued in the same period (post -paid service)  % 1.2 
Customers - 
mobile  Disputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges on 
pre-paid cards within the survey period and the average number of  
active SIM/USIM in the same period (pre -paid service)  % 1.2 
Customers - 
Fixed 
internet  Activation time for broadband Internet access services – Percentage 
of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer 
(active telephone lines)  % 95 
Customers - 
Fixed 
internet  Activation time for broadband internet access services – Average time 
of supply (active telephone lines)  Days  9 
Customers - 
Fixed 
internet  Activation time for broadband Internet access services – Percentage 
of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer 
(new active telephone lines and transferred telephone lines)  % 95 
Customers - 
Fixed 
internet  Activation time for broadband internet access services – Average time 
of supply (new active telephone lines and  transferred telephone lines)  Days  15 
Customers - 
Fixed 
internet  Broadband Internet access service faults  – Ratio between the 
effective number of malfunction reports and the average number 
of broadband access lines  
 
 % 12 
Customers - 
Fixed 
internet  Broadband Internet access service faults – Average repair time  Hours  26 
Customers - 
Fixed 
internet  Broadband Internet access service faults - Percentage of fault repairs 
completed within the maximum time established in the contract  % 92 
Customers - 
Fixed  
internet  Disputed charges - Ratio between the number of disputed charges in 
bills regarding all internet access services (received during the survey 
period) and the total number of bills issued in the same period 
(broadband access services)  % 1.4 
 
(1) The full list of quality indicators, and their respective objectives for 2020, is available on the www.tim.it  and www.timbusiness.it  websites.   
      The above objectives are e stablished by AGCom, with resolution no. 154/12/CONS for “mobile” services and resolutions No. 131/06/CSP, 
244/08/CSP, 400/10/CONS and 151/12/CONS for fixed internet access services.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
146 
 [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] 
Domestic BU  - Multi -year objectives -Digital Inclusion    
Indicator  Units  
of 
measure  Target  
2019  Actua
l 
figure 
2019  Target 
2020  Target 2021  
LTE Coverage (*) %   >99  
Next Generation Plan coverage (fixed telephony) FTTX (**) %   ~95  
(*) The percentage refers to the residential population. Coverage values are subject to change based on ISTAT and urbanization updates.  
(**) The percentage is determined by the ratio between the number of properties connected with “cabinets” reached by access o ptical fibers (or 
which can be served directly from an exchange if within acceptable distances) and the total number of properties that have or have had 
active telephone lines in the past.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
147 
 The supply chain  
[GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  The 2019 materiality analysis confirmed the evaluation and 
consolidation of social and environmental aspects of the supply chain as a material topic for the Group.  
Digital represents the new collective progress factor which, in different ways, offers new opportunit ies that greatly impact 
the economy and society.  
Suppliers have a direct influence on the communities and areas within which they carry out their activities, to which must 
be added the involvement of organizations that oversee the environmental and social  aspects related to these activities.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  The procurement process adopted by the TIM Group is based on 
the competitive comparison of the technical and economic characteristics of the offers presented by the  selected 
suppliers, based on corporate procedures that comply with business ethics.  
Products and services are acquired at the best market conditions and must meet particular requirements of functionality, 
quality, safety and respect for the environment, i n complete compliance with current laws and legislation.  
 
[GRI 102 -9] The purchasing departments focus on specific sectors, so as to provide accurate responses to the 
requirements of internal customers and stakeholders.  
TIM’s purchases mainly take place in  the two geographical areas where the Group’s major activities take place, Italy and 
Brazil, and are mainly aimed at the following categories of products and services:  
• telecommunications networks,  
• telecommunications products,  
• information technology,  
• techni cal and professional services,  
• power systems.  
• other.  
 
[GRI 102 -9] In total, 4,530 suppliers received purchase orders from the Group in 2019 ( -5% compared with 2018 and -
11% compared with 2017), of which 3,682 for the Domestic BU 1 (-2% compared with 2018 and -7% compared with the 
2017 total), 871 for Brazil ( -12% compared with 2018 and -21% compared with 2017)2.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  The selection of the TIM Group’s suppliers involves a pre -
contract ual qualification stage, in which the economic/financial and technical/organizational characteristics are assessed. 
If the result of this assessment -which also includes consideration of the business ethics and respect for Human Rights, 
workers’ rights and  the environment -is positive, the suppliers are registered on the Group Supplier Database.  
[GRI 412 -3] In all the contracts signed, there is a specific clause which makes it mandatory for the supplier to accept the 
principles expressed in the Group’s Code  of Ethics and Conduct3.   
[GRI 412 -3] As regards the domestic operations, the Italian suppliers on the database with considerable value (the 
threshold is 3,000 euros cumulative per year) receive4 initial screening in relation to respect for the principles  of the Code 
of Ethics and Conduct and are subject to regular assessment. The actions taken by TIM to check suppliers varies 
                                                                 
1 The perimeter of the Domestic BU's suppliers also includes those of the companies Olivetti and Persidera.  
2 The sum of the two addenda differs from the total because some suppliers received purchase orders both from the Do mestic BU and the Brazil 
BU. 
3 The Group Code of Ethics and Conduct (CE) reads: “Compliance with the Code must also be guaranteed by external collaborators and, where 
envisaged in the company procedural system, by third parties that do business with the Gr oup”. In particular, the internal procedures require 
suppliers to accept the principles laid down by the CE, and contracts for temporary consortia or corporate investments to con tain clauses for 
safeguarding the Organizational Model 231 (which is based on the CE). The UN Global Compact is, on the matter of Human Rights, the point of 
reference of the Group’s CE, which reads: “TIM has signed up to the United Nations’ Global Compact on Human Rights, work stan dards, 
environmental protection and the fight agains t corruption, and ensures that this institutional commitment is fully implemented by undertaking 
regular initiatives on environmental and social issues”. The CE also contains specific clauses on the prohibition of discrimi nation, intimidation, 
corruption a nd the protection of health and safety. Moreover, the Group policy on respect for Human Rights specifies that “Fundamental Hu man 
Rights (e.g. working hours, fair remuneration, minimum age for starting work, workplace conditions, accessibility to the disa bled, protection of 
maternity, prohibition of harassment, prohibition of forced/compulsory/restricted labour)” and “rights regarding health and s afety (we consider 
the high standards of health and safety as a milestone of our success and our aim is to minimi ze injuries and occupational illnesses)” must be 
guaranteed for both the people of the Group and the human resources of suppliers.  
4 Excluding government agencies.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
148 
 depending on the riskiness of the supplier and the value of the purchase: ranging from simple to complex questionnaires 
and documen t checks to specific audits on sustainability matters.  
[GRI 414 -1] Specifically, in 2019, 100% of new suppliers enrolled in the Register signed a specific questionnaire in which 
they commit themselves and any authorized sub -contractors, collaborators and e mployees to observe the principles of 
behavior contained in the Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct.1 
While the supply is taking place, registered companies which have received purchase orders in markets that are strategic 
for the Group normally undergo inc oming quality control checks (a requirement for the acceptance and use of the 
purchased goods) and monitoring of the vendor rating. Environmental and social audits are  also carried out on some of 
these.2 
For some sectors, the Group also measures and monito rs subcontracting suppliers, in particular, for network jobs; there 
were 850 subcontracting businesses ( -4% compared with 2018 and -9% compared with 2017). In this sector, therefore, 
the estimated total number of suppliers involved in the supply chain was 8703. 
In the last three years, no significant changes have occurred in the structure of the Group’s supply chain.  
 
In the BU Brazil, the products come, as far as possible, from local suppliers. TIM Participações checks that its suppliers 
comply with labour  laws also by scrutiny of a particular list (that includes suppliers non -compliant with the laws in 
question), available on the website managed by the " Business Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption and the Brazilian 
National Pact to Eradicate Slave La bor"4. A potential supplier included in the abovemenetioned  list - for violating laws 
regarding child, forced or other labor - cannot sell services and products to the Company. In 2019, no supplier who had 
responded to the TIM Participações' social and environmental questionnaire identified risks concerning child and forced 
labor.  
 
Sustainability initiatives  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  In 2019, the process that defines activities aimed at improving 
the sustainability of the supply chain continued to be applied. These activities involve the qualification, incoming quality 
and vendor rating stages.  
In particular, the suppliers were classified according to the potential risks associated with their sustainability performanc e, 
carried out using a specific method that considers the social -environm ental and business continuity aspects associated 
with the procurement markets in which they operate. For this reason, the procurement markets (i.e. procurement 
categories homogeneous among themselves) have been classified in accordance with parameters such  as: 
• the geographical areas of reference and the risks connected with them,  
• the potential impact on the environment and on the society of the suppliers’ activities and of the products and 
services supplied throughout their entire life cycle, including risks relating to violations of Human Rights, employment 
and environmental,  
• the impact on the reputation of TIM as a customer.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  A matrix has been created which, by relating the spending 
associated with t he specific purchase market to the risk index calculated on the basis of the parameters listed, has 
allowed purchase markets to be divided into four classes, identifying those that are critical from the point of view of 
sustainability and economic impact. Suppliers belonging to the classes at greatest risk are the subject of sustainability 
audits carried out by third party companies specializing in the sector. These audits are repeated periodically to monitor 
the implementation of any corrective actions and , if the results are positive, to verify that the standard of performance 
found is being maintained over time. The tools developed and used for the Domestic BU have been explained and 
transferred to the Brazil BU.  
 
                                                                 
1 In Brazil the percentage was 96%.  
2 [GRI 103 -2:Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414 ] In particular, checks are envisaged on health and safety and the environment, the result 
of which goes towards forming the supplier rating, to which the system of penalties/incentives is connected. Checks are also envisaged in relation 
to respect for employm ent legislation.  
3 In the Brazilian BU, at present there is no systematic monitoring of level two suppliers.   
'4 Companies Integrity Pact, against corruption, and the Brazilian National Pact for the Elimination of Forced Labor.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
149 
 [GRI 308 -1] [GRI 407 -11] [GRI 408 -1] [GRI  409-1] [GRI 414 -2] All suppliers of the Domestic BU have been assessed to 
consider the social/environmental risk; in 2019 , there were 42 at higher risk (no change from 2018 and down 18% from 
2017). 17 purchase and suppliers2 operating in the following geo graphical areas are considered to be at greatest social 
risk: Asia, Central and South America, North Africa and Eastern Europe.  
 
[GRI 410 -1] For the employees of organizations which supply security guard services in Italy, the Consolidated Law on 
Public Se curity must be complied with, in particular Art. 138, subsection 2, which specifies the professional and training 
requirements of sworn guards. In Brazil , law 7102/83 establishes the rules relating to private security. Among other things, 
it ensures that a ll those intending to be hired as security guards for a security business must have attended a training 
course, delivered by schools accredited by the Federal Police. After hiring, once every two years the guards must take an 
update course.  
 
[GRI 103 -2: Ma nagement Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  Since 2014, all suppliers interested in a qualification process (new, 
extension, renewal), relating to areas of procurement that present the greatest risk in terms of sustainability answer a 
specific self -assessment q uestionnaire to determine the socio -environmental sustainability risk. Periodically updated 
based on the results and evolution of the qualification process, the questionnaire was developed according to the main 
requirements of the relevant responsible corp orate management standards relating to respect for ethical values and to 
safeguarding the environment (including SA 8000, UN Global Compact and ISO 14001) and to the best industry practices.  
[GRI 308 -1] [GRI 414 -1] The self -assessment sustainability questi onnaire is integrated into the application that handles 
the supplier qualification process, which automatically extended it to all new suppliers operating in markets where 
sustainability is considered to be at risk. Refresher campaigns were mounted for sup pliers previously qualified in TIM’s 
Register of suppliers. The results of the questionnaire will make it possible to refine the risk matrix described above.   
[GRI 308 -1] The application of the green procurement policy, which contains guidelines for establ ishing the environmental 
requirements of products/services purchased, continues to be an integral part of the procurement process. The policy 
covers all stages of the product life: design, production, use and end of life. Published on the “vendors hub” sup plier portal 
of TIM and in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website, the document helps to orient purchasing policies 
towards low environmental impact products and services.  
 
[GRI 414 -1] [GRI 414 -2] In 2019 in Brazil  a self -assessment qu estionnaire on sustainability issues was sent to suppliers 
whose orders exceeded one million reais, equal to 71% of the total number of suppliers. All 831 suppliers involved 
responded by the end of 2019. The results are used as an indication for future sel ection processes.  
 
Sustainability checks  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  Activities intended to verify the sustainability performance level 
of common suppliers and sub -suppliers continued in 2019 in the framework of the Joint Audit Cooperation3 (JAC) initiative, 
in accordance with the memorandum of understanding signed at the end of 2009 by TIM, Orange and Deutsche Telekom. 
Proximus, KPN, Swisscom, Vodafone Group subsequently joined the initiative in 2011; Telenor and Telia Company in 2012; 
Verizon in 2013; AT&T, Telefónica and Rogers in 2016; MTS, Telstra and Veon in 2018 and Elisa OYJ in 2019.  
 
The purposes of the Joint Audit Cooperation are:  
                                                                 
1 [GRI 103 -2: Management App roach] [GRI 407]  The Group policy aimed at preventing the risk of violation of trade union rights is that relating to 
“Relations with Suppliers in the TIM procurement process”, which reads: “...the Group demands of its suppliers and promotes, through them,  
and including with regards to sub -suppliers, respect for the following principles and provisions of law in force in the countries where these 
stakeholders operate... all employees have the legal right to constitute and/or belong to trade union organizatio ns aimed at safeguarding the 
individual and collective interest. The role of the workers’ trade union representatives must be acknowledged, and they must not be subject to 
any form of discrimination; in order to go about their union activities, they must b e guaranteed remunerated permits and the means necessary 
to communicate with the workers on the workplace”. The same concepts are also stressed in the Group’s policy on respect for H uman Rights.  
2  NGAN (Next Generation Access Network , i.e. the next generation network), antennae, cables, data – GBE ( Gigabit Ethernet , i.e. the evolution to 
1,000 Mbit/s of the Fast Ethernet  -IEEE 802.3u standard -protocol operating at 100 Mbit/s), DWDM ( Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing , i.e. 
the technology used to  increase the amount of bandwidth available on a fibre optic channel) equipment, 3G access, LTE mobile access ( Long 
Term Evolution ), assurance, creation ; delivery, civil works, industrial works, industrial maintenance, call center, telesales, access gatewa y, and 
handset.  
3   Further information is available on the jac -initiative.com website.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
150 
 • to verify the sustainability of the most important suppliers/sub -suppliers that are common to the members of the 
JAC, with production plants located in geographical areas with a significant degree of socio -environmental risk. The 
checks are made through audits carried out by Third parties using a specific method developed by the JAC members 
themselves, who share the results of the verifications;  
• to contribute to the increased sust ainability of suppliers/sub -suppliers involved by devising and implementing 
corrective actions and ongoing improvement programs, establishing long -lasting and mutually beneficial cooperation 
with them in terms of efficiency, productivity and risk reduction  in the supply chain;  
• to perform capacity building  activities (capacity development), through specific supplier training programs, particularly 
in order to disseminate a culture of sustainability throughout the supply chain (sub -suppliers and sub -sub-suppl iers);  
• share tools to address common and relevant international issues, such as climate change or circular economy.  
 
[GRI 308 -2] [GRI 407 -1] [GRI 408 -1] [GRI 409 -1] [GRI 414 -2] Between 2010 and -2019, thanks to the gradual increase in the 
number of members  of JAC, 639 audits1 were carried out – 124 in 2019 alone - in the production plants (suppliers and sub - 
suppliers) located in Asia, Central and South America, North Africa and Europe. The checks were carried out through 
international specialized companies  selected by competitive tender and related to a total of more than 1,326,000 workers. 
The suppliers included in the audit campaigns belonged to the user devices and appliances, network appliances and IT 
equipment production sectors.  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  The table below shows the non -conformities recorded during 
audits on Group suppliers, including those relating to Human Rights.  
 
 2019  2018  2017  
Environment  49 (19)  30 (22)  38 (32)  
Discriminations  7 (2)  2 (2)  11 (10) 
Business ethics2 27 (4)  28 (24)  53 (48)  
Forced labour  8 (0)  3 (2)  7 (3)  
Child labour  7 (1) 3 (3)  4 (4)  
Freedom of association  5 (1)  2 (2)  3 (2)  
Working hours  46 (18)  38 (27)  60 (46)  
Salaries  16 (3)  7 (6)  21 (22)  
Disciplinary proceedings  0 (1)  1 (0) 3 (1)  
Health and safety  103 (51)  105 (77)  182 (142)  
 
 (Data relating to suppliers also operating for the Brazil BU is given in brackets)  
 
[GRI 308 -2] [GRI 414 -2] For all the non -conformities encountered, specific corrective action plans were drawn up that 
established resolution procedures and timetables amongst others. The implementation of these plans is monitored on a 
constant basis by the JAC members3.  
Moreove r, in the 2017 -2019 three -year period, 82% of the non -compliances detected were remedied within one year from 
the start of the corrective action plan, for a total of over 600 actions.  
                                                                 
1  348 of whom were TIM suppliers (40 in 2019 alone). The total number of audits may be affected by the presence of some audits conducted 
over two years.  
2This item in cludes, inter alia, conflict minerals , ISO 27000 standards, privacy, responsible advertising, anti -competitive practices, intellectual 
property, corrupt practices.  
3 [GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  As the aim of the initiative is to help suppliers in the countries which are at greater risk - 
in terms of the application and respect for sustainability principles - improve their performance, non -conformities always result in corrective 
actions and not in the termination of the purchase contract.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
151 
 The first three areas affected by these actions were health and safety, environment and working hours.  
On 16 and January 17, 2019, the eighth annual suppliers Forum in the JAC programme was held in Shenzhen (China) on 
the theme of: " Circular economy and responsible use of resources ." The event was attended by more than 260 
sustainability and procurement professionals from leading telecommunications operators, Information and 
Communication Technology (ICT) providers, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Non Governmental Organizations 
(NGOs) and researchers.  
During the forum, awards were given to suppliers who have adopted best practices in health and safety and who have 
distinguished themselves for the spirit of collaboration shown during the CSR audit campaign.  
Supplier involvement initiatives  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  Use of the suppliers’ portal ( vendors hub ), launched at the end of 
2011 to improve communication and optimize operational processes by applying social networking  systems to the 
business context, is now well established; the Po rtal has around 4,149 vendors  enabled to use the application platform. 
The portal allows suppliers to access a private area to view important data and events connected to their relationship 
with TIM and manage all their own details, thus acquiring signific ant advantages in smooth operation and transparency. 
The vendors hub  also includes a public area containing information for potential suppliers.  
Documentation is exchanged electronically (e.g. offers, purchase orders, contracts, qualification documentation , surveys), 
therefore reducing the environmental impact resulting from the use of paper, transporting and storing documents.  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
THE VALUE CHAIN  
152 
 Supply chain commitments  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 103 -3: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414]  
 
 2019 results and 2020 objectives: Italy  
INDICATORS  DETAILS  2019 OBJECTIVES  FINAL FIGURES 
2019  2020 
OBJECTIVES  
% suppliers audited  Total amount of high risk suppliers 
who have undergone an in -depth 
sustainability audit since 20101   
 
85% of high risk  
suppliers  86%  85%  
 
 
% of suppliers assessed  Suppliers assessed with a basic 
ethics questionnaire. Moreover, 
suppliers belonging to risk sectors 
are assessed with a more complex 
questionnaire2 100% of qualified 
suppliers, as defined 
in the introduction 
to the section  100%  100%  
% procurement staff 
who received training 
on environmental, 
social and governance  
(ESG) risks relating to 
purchasing decisions  % staff directly involved in 
procurement, who participated in 
at least one training session on ESG 
matters  90%  93%  90%  
% contracts containing 
clauses connected with 
ESG risks   
100%  100%  100%  
% suppliers with ISO 
14001 certificates or 
equivalent   90% of network 
businesses  90%  90%  
Integration of the ESG 
risk profile in the 
general supplier risk 
profile  All the suppliers qualified and 
registered in the register of 
suppliers are assessed based on an 
overall “Key Risk Indicator” (KRI) 
which also includes sustainability 
indicators  100% of qualified 
suppliers, as defined 
in the introduction 
to the sec tion 100%  100%  
 
2019 results and 2020 objectives: Brazil  
INDICATOR  DETAILS  2019 TARGET  FINAL FIGURE 2019  2020 OBJECTIVE  
Suppliers management  Percentage of suppliers evaluated 
according to sustainability criteria, 
based on ethics and conflicts of 
interest3. 85%  93%  85%  
  
                                                                 
1  The number of high risk suppliers varies year on year, as it depends on the orders made every year and the procurement market  in which the 
suppliers operate. The same applies in general to the total number of  suppliers belonging to the various procurement markets.  
2 The KPI refers to new suppliers and existing suppliers in case of renewal or extension of their qualification.  
3Since the beginning of 2019, supplier assessments based on a questionnaire with socia l and environmental principles have been replaced by a 
due diligence questionnaire that includes elements of ethics and conflict of interest.  The previous socio -environmental survey was nonetheless 
applied to all suppliers of goods and services (not just t o those of an amount higher than a million reais). In 2019 87% of suppliers completed 
the socio -environmental survey.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
153 
 HUMAN RIGHTS  
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
154 
 [GRI 103 -1: Management Approach] [GRI 406] [GRI 407] [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412]  The materiality analysis, 
conducted by TIM in 2019, confirmed the promotion and protection of Human Rights as a material topic for stakeholders 
and for the Group, along the entire “value chain”. This result, which may seem surprising for a telecommunicati ons 
operator that works in countries considered to be at low/medium risk of Human Rights violations, is based on two sets of 
reasons : 
• the broad meaning TIM assigns to the concept of “Human Right”. This sphere includes not only basic Human Rights 
common to all economic sectors, such as the right to fair remuneration, non -discrimination, the right to not resort to 
forced/compulsory/bonded work, etc., but also Human Rights specific to a telecommunications company, such as the 
right to access information, freed om of expression (in particular online), protection of privacy and safety online, and 
protection of children (from cyberbullying, for example);  
• the public outcry caused by Human Rights violation incidents, which can seriously affect business reputation.  
 
TIM’s Commitments  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 406] [GRI 407] [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412] TIM signed up to the Global 
Compact in 2002;  between 2008 and 2011, TIM was a member of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Working Group 
set up by  the Global Compact Board in 2006 with the aim of providing Global Compact with a strategic Human Rights 
input.  
 
From 2012 to 2019, TIM has been one of the members of “The Human Rights Peer Learning Group” (PLG), established in 
the context of the Global Co mpact Network Germany with the “technical” support of Twentyfifty Ltd. 1 
In recent years, in order to strengthen its commitment to the protection of Human Rights, TIM has implemented, inter 
alia: 
• Human Rights due diligence;  
• the “Respecting Human Rights in the TIM Group” policy;  
• information and training on Human Rights.  
 
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach [GRI 406] [GRI 407] [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412] TIM monitors and analyses 
reports of possible breaches of Human Rights received through the whistleblowing2 portal made available to all 
stakeholders.  
 
Complaints received and handled regarding Human Rights  
 2019  of which 
substantiated  2018  of which 
substantiated  2017  of which 
substantiated  
Italy  2 0 2 0 10 2 
Brazil  49 15 52 15 31 10 
 
Due Diligence  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 406] [GRI 407] [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412] Among the objectives of 
due diligence are:  
• the identification and mapping of Human Rights risks resulting from the company’s operations;  
• confirmation that each topic is assigned to a responsible body (governance), is governed by a specific internal 
regulatory framework (e.g. policy,  procedure), has a management system that regularly monitors and traces the 
performances (if possible through appropriate indicators, such as those concerning health and safety);  
                                                                 
1 PLG is a learning platform and active leadership for European companies, where the meetings take place in respect of the Chatham House R ule. 
2Instrument in compliance with Law No. 179/2017 (Provisions on the protection of parties reporting offenses or irregularities they become aware 
of in the context of a public or private employment relationship"), which includes some of the requirements  of the "Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights", issued by the UN in 2011.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
155 
 • the definition of a gradual improvement path which, starting with simple resp ect for the local laws, guides the policies 
and processes of Human Rights towards sharing with the appropriate stakeholders through appropriate involvement 
initiatives;  
• the highlighting of any gaps or inconsistencies between the company’s various departmen ts and/or between the 
different companies of the Group;  
• the possibility to discuss Human Rights with the other companies.  
 
[GRI 412 -1] TIM carried out the first due diligence on Human Rights (concluded in 2014) using the tool OCAI1, and the 
involvement of the Group’s two biggest entities in terms of workforce and investments, in other words the Domestic BU2 
(the percentage covered was 98% as it excluded Olivetti and TIM Sparkle) and the Brazil BU. The Sustainability Reporting, 
Monitoring and Relationship De partment examined the questionnaires that had been filled in and conducted the related 
feedback with the Italian departments in order to further examine the contributions provided and define the action plans 
for the level two and three self -assessments (re spectively 3.1% and 8.6% of all the responses)3.  
In Italy, at the end of the feedback, the following emerged:  
• on a scale of one to six, the average score of all the answers was 4.4;  
• the need to prepare the TIM Group’s Human Rights policy (around 2/3 of th e insufficient self -assessments regarded 
this aspect);  
• the usefulness of organising internal Human Rights training courses.  
 
 [GRI 414 -1] [GRI 414 -2] The results of the audit on Human Rights carried out on the suppliers of the Group are set out in 
this document and in the Sustainability section of the Group’s website.  
 
Human Rights Policy  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 406] [GRI 407] [GRI 408] [ GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412]  The Policy applies to every 
individual within the Group and also concerns Third Parties who have business dealings with TIM.  
The Policy, issued in 20154, aims to make respect for Human Rights an essential requirement in the per formance of TIM’s 
operational activities. Both in Italy and in foreign companies, the Group has set up processes through which it undertakes 
to respect Human Rights and has identified those that may be negatively influenced by the Company’s activities, suc h 
as: 
• [GRI 403 -3] [GRI 406 -1] [GRI 408 -1] [GRI 409 -1] Human rights common to all industry sectors (e.g. rights concerning 
health and safety at work, diversity, equality and non -discrimination, working hours, fair pay, minimum age for 
starting work, accessi bility for disabled people, maternity protection, forced/compulsory/restricted labor, the zero 
tolerance approach to any form of corruption, the rights of our customers to responsible advertising, rights related to 
the use of armed security, according to t he highest international standards and practices);  
• [GRI 407 -1] rights agreed with the unions and included in National Labour Agreements (in line with the principles of 
the International Labour Organization).  
 
The Group’s internal processes also focus on a series of individual rights affected by the core business , including the rights:  
• associated with access to telecommunications services and innovation;  
                                                                 
1 Organizational Capacity Assessment Instrument, created by Twentyfifty  Ltd. with funding from the Global Compact Network Germany 
Foundation. OCAI, which does not operate as an expert in compliance:  
• fully reflects the “UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights”;  
• takes into account the interpretations provided by the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights;  
• In completing the OCAI, for each question, the company/department must assess its own position, current and potential, on a s pectrum of 
six levels that range from “non -responsive” to “Human Rights promot er”. 
2 Including Industrial Relations, Health & Safety, Equal Opportunities, Privacy, Procurement, Compliance, Protection of VAS (Va lue Added 
Services) customers, Protection of customers of the universal telephony service.  
3 No level one response was supplied during the first round.  
4Available in Italian at the link https://www.telecomitalia.com/content/dam/telecomitalia/documents/Sostenibilita/it/Politiche /policy -diritti -
umani.pdf and in Brazilian at the link ri.tim.com.br/ShowCanal/Sustentabilidade?=4K/0QqB9zIbMs3+gpxdxTA  (the policy is also available in 
English on the websites of TIM S.p.A and TIM Partecipações).  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
156 
 • [GRI 418]  associated with the pri vacy of the Group’s employees, customers and suppliers, and the protection of their 
personal data;  
• associated with freedom of expression, in particular online, supported by access to telecommunications technologies;  
• potentially violated by added value serv ices (for example, services with content reserved for adults and gambling);  
• of children and young people to be protected from (cyber)bullying or harassment;  
• associated with environmental protection (in particular electromagnetic fields);  
• of the communities  in which TIM carries out business, with particular attention to vulnerable groups of people (e.g. 
disabled people, minors, the elderly, women).  
 
The Policy sets out the unfiltered and anonymous reporting mechanisms in line with the requirements of the company 
procedures (specifically, that relating to “whistleblowing”), available on the Group’s website.  
 
The efficiency and monitoring of the Human Rights Policy, approved by the Chairman of TIM, is ensured by the Human 
Resources, Organization & Real Estat e Department, responsible for its observance as regards the involvement of TIM’s 
people; the Procurement  Department, responsible for seeing it is complied with by suppliers; the Compliance  Department, 
which monitors the risk of non -compliance with the reference legislation; and the Sustainability Reporting, Monitoring and 
Relationship  Department, responsible for updating the Policy.  
 
(In)Formation and training on human rights  
[GRI 103 -2: Management Approach] [GRI 406] [GRI 407] [GRI 408] [GRI 409] [GRI 410] [GRI 412] Following the publication 
of the Policy, in 2015 a classroom training course was organized and attended by representatives of the various company 
departments. The course was he ld by an external company expert in sustainability 1issues and was attended by the 
General Manager of Amnesty International  Italy.  
Moreover, an online course was created for everyone in the company, available from the end of 2015. The course, updated 
in au tumn 2018, is available on the TIM Academy e -learning  platform for Group employees and - from July 2019 - for all 
stakeholders (in Italian only) at the URL2 https://dirittiumani.gruppotim.it3. 
 
Both the wor kshop and the online course highlighted, among other things:  
• what Human Rights are and the main international Institutions that govern them;  
• businesses and Human Rights, focusing on any impact their business activities may have on Human Rights;  
• the importance of businesses that operate in the telecommunications industry in the defence of Human Rights;  
• TIM and Human Rights: what can be done - in the case of doubt - by individuals of the Group for the protection of 
Human Rights;  
• how and when to use  the reporting mechanism.  
 
In 2018 in Brazil  TIM Partecipações made a version of the course respecting the local context available to all its employees 
on the “Conexão TIM” platform.  Among its aims were to broaden knowledge of the subject among employees,  in 
particular to highlight how Human Rights feature in day to day work.  
TIM also continued to promote diversity through its internal communication channels; during the TIM Talks week, 
promoted by the Human Resources department for employee development, d iversity was one of the topics discussed.  
 
 
                                                                 
1  Avanzi Srl, more info rmation is available at the website avanzi.org . 
2Uniform  Resource  Locator , that is a sequence  of characters  that uniquely  identifies  theaddress of a video,  picture,  document,  etc. on a computer  
network , made  accessible  to a client (hardware  or software).  
3The course runs on personal computers (Internet Explorer, Chrome Firefox) while it is not accessible from smartphones.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
157 
 [GRI 412 -2]The training activities mainly concerned the dissemination of the Group’s Policy for the Respect of Human 
Rights and observance of occupational Health and Safety standards.  
 
 
Number of training hours on Human Rights in the Group  
 
Business Unit  2019  2018  2017  
Domestic  129,173.74 177,323  197,057  
Brazil  4,710.1  22,581  19,269  
 
 
 
Complaints and incidents  
[GRI 103 -3: Management Approach]  The Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct requires employees, collaborators and 
consultants, as well as third parties who have business relations with the Group - in respect of activities and services of 
interest to the Group - to promptly inform the Head of  the TIM Audit Department, either directly or via their line manager, 
of any violations or collusion to violate:  
• legal or regulatory requirements,  
• provisions of the Code of Ethics and Conduct,  
• internal policies and procedures,  
any irregularities and/or neg ligence.  
The handling of reports above, also specifically those for which the Head of the Audit Department is responsible (known 
as “whistleblowing”), is a requirement of the Sarbanes -Oxley Act and  – for some requirements  – of the “UN Guiding 
Principles o n Business and Human Rights”; in Italy this particular case is regulated by Law No. 179/2017 (Provisions on the 
protection of parties reporting offenses or irregularities they become aware of in the context of a public or private 
employment relationship”).   
 
The “Whistleblowing” procedure requires the Head of the Audit Department, who answers directly to the Board of 
Directors, independently of the senior executives:  
• to ensure that incoming complaints are received, logged and undergo preliminary analysis;  
• based on the results of the preliminary analysis, to launch a structured audit activity (if required);  
• to communicate the results of the analyses to the relevant departments so that they may take the appropriate 
corrective actions (if required). The non -com pliance is only closed once the Audit Department has verified the 
effectiveness of the corrective actions implemented by the relevant departments;  
• to ensure the traceability and retention of the documentation regarding the complaints received and their ana lysis;  
• to update the reporting procedure and disseminate it internally together with the Human Resources, Organization & 
Real Estate Department.  
 
Employees were made aware of this in a letter from the CEO and a news  item published on the company Intranet.  
 
In 2019, a total of 165 complaints were received in Italy and 927 in Brazil.  In the case of Italy, of the 165 complaints, 65 
were anonymous and 100 non -anonymous - classified as follows:  
• 75 in the context of the “Whistleblowing” procedure1; 
• 86 not covered by the procedure and sent to the relevant departments for the respective checks, informing the Audit 
Department of the result; including:  
                                                                 
1  For example: network coverage, relations with suppliers, health and safety of workers, presumed harassment and or discrimi natory conduct; 
those relating to Human Rights are detailed in this chapter's tables.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
158 
 • 63 customer complaints (poor service);  
• 23 other;  
• 4 “irrelevant” ones in terms of the purpose of the procedure.  
 
In the case of Brazil , of the 927 complaints, 560 were anonymous and 367 non -anonymous, classified as follows:  
• 657 in the context of the “Whistleblowing” procedure1; 
• 159 customer complaints (poor service);  
• 111 "not inherent" to the objective of the procedure.  
 
Below are the Human Rights -related complaints received through the main tool which TIM provides for all stakeholders 
to report any kind of regulatory irregularity or breach of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, and of the Human Rights Policy, 
i.e. the “Whistleblowing” procedure, available both on the company intranet and on the Tim website at the following link:  
telecomitalia.com/content/dam/telecomitalia/documents/Governance/en/codes_principles_procedure/Procedure -
Whistleblowing.pdf . 
 
Complaints received and handled regarding Human Rights in general  
 
 
Italy  2019  of which 
substantiate
d 2018  of which 
substantiate
d 2017  of which 
substantiated  
Total number of complaints regarding Human Rights 
received through the main reporting mechanisms  12 0 0 0 33 0 
Handled during the reporting period  1 0 0 0 3 0 
Resolved during the reporting period  0 0 0 0 2 0 
Total number of complaints received prior to the survey 
period and resolved during the reference period  0 0 1 0 0 0 
 
Brazil  
       
Total number of complaints regarding Human Rights 
received through the main reporting mechanisms  114 3 85 0 56 0 
Handled during the reporting period  11 3 8 0 5 0 
Resolved during the reporting period  9 3 7 0 4 0 
Total number of complaints received prior to the survey 
period and resolved during the reference period  1 0 1 0 0 0 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                 
1 Of which 440 were of the “company” type (processes that can be improved, etc.) and 217 of TIM Partecipações (employees in cri sis situations).  
2The complaint concerned the category "privacy rights of employees and customers".  
3Two complaints concerned the rights related to access to telecommunications services and one the human resources of TIM suppl iers. 
4Of the eleven reports, six relate to threat or coercion (of which  one was substantiated), four to the right to privacy (of which one was substantiated 
and one partially substantiated) and one to child labor.  
5 All eight complaints concerned alleged breaches of the privacy laws of customers and/or employees.  
6 Of the fiv e complaints, four concerned suppliers’ failure to apply workplace health and safety rules and one the sexual exploitation of  
children/adolescents.  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
159 
  
 
[GRI 406 -1] [GRI 411 -1] Complaints received and handled regarding discrimination issues  
 
Italy  2019  of which 
substantiated  2018  of which 
substantiated  2017  of which 
substantiated  
Total number of complaints regarding discrimination 
received through the main reporting mechanisms  11 0 0 0 32 1 
Handled during the reporting period  1 0 0 0 3 1 
Resolved during the reporting period  1 0 0 0 2 1 
Total number of complaints received prior to the survey 
period and resolved during the reference period  0 0 1 0 0 0 
 
 
Brazil        
Total number of complaints regarding discrimination 
received through the main reporting mechanisms   83 3 54 1 35 0 
Handled during the reporting period  8 3 5 1 3 0 
Resolved during the reporting period  8 3 5 1 3 0 
Total number of complaints received prior to the survey 
period and resolved during the reference period   
0  
0  
0  
0  
0  
0 
 
 
 
[GRI 411 -1] No incidents of discrimination or violations of the rights of indigenous people have been reported in the Group 
in the last 3 years6. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                 
1The complaint concerned the category "sex discrimination or harassment (gender)".  
2 The three cases of discrimination or harassment concerned, in one case religious faith, substantiated and resolved and in ano ther, physical or 
mental disability, and in the last, unsubstantiated political persuasion.  
3Of the eight reports, three concerne d discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation (one of which was substantiated), two concerned racial 
discrimination, one concerned disabled people (substantiated), one concerned employee classification (substantiated) and one concerned 
discrimination o n grounds of gender identity.  
4 Of the five complaints, two concerned discrimination or harassment based on ethnicity or race, two other cases (one substanti ated and resolved) 
discrimination or harassment based on sexual orientation and in the final case d iscrimination based on economic -social conditions.  
5 Of the three complaints two concerned discrimination or harassment based on sexual orientation and one concerned discriminati on or 
harassment based on physical appearance.  
6 The only geographical area w ith an indigenous population where TIM operates is Brazil ; however, telecommunications activities do not have a 
negative impact on these populations.  
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
HUMAN RIGHTS  
160 
  
Complaints received and handled relating to labour issues  
 
Italy  
 2019  of which:  
substantiated  2018  of which 
substantiated  2017  of which 
substantiated  
Total number of complaints regarding work 
matters received through the formal 
mechanisms in the reference period  0 0 21 0 42 1 
Handled during the reporting period  0 0 2 0 4 1 
Resolved during the reporting period  0 0 1 0 4 1 
Total number of complaints regarding work 
matters received previously, which were 
resolved in the reference period  1 0 0 0 1 0 
 
Brazil        
Total number of complaints regarding work 
matters received through the formal 
mechanisms in the reference period  303 9 394 14 235 10 
Handled during the reporting period  30 9 39 14 23 10 
Resolved during the reporting period  25 9 38 14 21 10 
Total number of complaints regarding work 
matters received previously, which were 
resolved in the reference period  1 1 0 0 0 0 
 
TIM Participações offers its own Whistleblowing channel for clarification requests or forwarding complaints of alleged 
Human Rights violations by internal and external stakeholders, ensuring maximum confidentiality. A unique identification 
code, associated  with each reported complaint, allows the complainant to check the status of the work in complete 
anonymity. Full information about this is available by clicking on this link: tim.com.br/sp/canal -de-denuncias . 
 
                                                                 
1 The two complaints concerned a case of sexual harassment at work and a case involving the right of the w orker to perform their work while 
being treated with dignity and respect (this latter was unsubstantiated and closed in 2019).   
2 Of the four complaints, three concerned the execution of duties in relation to the worker’s dignity (one of which is substant iated and resolved) 
and one of harassment.  
3Twenty -three complaints related to labor law violations (nine of which were substantiated), two for moral harassment (unsubstantiate d) and 
five for sexual harassment (unsubstantiated).  
4 Seventeen complaints related to harassment (of which ten were substantiated and resolved), fifteen breaches of the union contract (one 
substantiated and settled) and seven complaints concerned sexual harassment at work (three of which substantiated and resolve d). 
5 Eighteen co mplaints concerned harassment (of which nine substantiated and resolved) and five sexual harassment at work (one of which was  
substantiated and settled).  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
161 
 APPENDIX  
 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
162 
 TIM Group - Consolidated economic -financial highlights  
 
[GRI 102 -7]   
 
(millions of euros)  Revenues *  EBITDA*  Capital expenditures  Headcount at period 
end (number)  
 2019  2018  2017  2019  2018  2017  2019  2018  2017  2019  2018  2017  
Domestic  14,078  15,031  15,031  5,708  5,955  6,171  2,912  5,518  4,551  45,496  48,200  49,851  
Brazil  3,937  3,943  3,943  2,451  1,467  1,635  872 890 1,150  9,689  9,658  9,508  
Other activities  - - - (9) (19) (16) - - - 13 43 70 
Adjustments and 
eliminations  (41) (34) (35) 1 - -   - - - - 
Consolidated total  17,974  18,940  18,940  8,151  7,403  7,790  3,784  6,408  5,701  55,198  57,901  59,429  
 
*For details on how accounting standards are adopted and possible reassessment of values please refer to the Note "Accounting  
Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statement as of December 31, 2019 of the TIM Group.  
 
 
 
[GRI 201-4] The total contributions, collected as part of research and innovation projects financed by national and 
international public bodies, amounted to 5.56 million euros in 2019 (5.3 million euros in 2018 and 5.2 million euros in 2017) . 
It should also be noted that the total contributions received in 2019 from the Domestic BU amounted to approximately 
28.3 million euros.  
 
 
 
 
Other consolidated economic -financial data  
 
(millions of euros)  12/31/2019  12/31/2018  12/31/2017  
 Total Equity  22,626  21,747  23,783  
- attributable to Owners of the Parent  20,280  19,528  21,557  
- attributable to non -controlling interests  2,346  2,219  2,226  
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to Owners of 
the Parent  916 (1,411)  1,121  
Profit (loss) for the year attributable to Non-
controlling interests  326 259 166 
Net financial debt carrying amount  28,246  25,995  26,091  
 
 
 
 TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
163 
 [GRI 201 -1] Economic value produced and distributed  
 
(millions of euros)  2019  2018  2017  
a) Total operating revenues and 
other income  18,907  19,281  20,351  
b) Interest income and dividends 
received  78 54 129 
c) Gains (losses) on disposals of non -
current assets  (49) (1) 11 
d) Directly produced economic value 
(a+b+c)  18,936  19,334  20,491  
e) Operating expenses  7,555  8,649  8,824  
f) Employee benefits expenses  3,077  3,105  3,626  
g) Lenders  1,729  1,585  1,705  
h) Duties and taxes  365 696 750 
i) Distributed economic value 
(e+f+g+h)  12,726  14,035  14,905  
Non -distributed economic value (d -i) 6,210  5,299  5,586  
 
 
Detailed expenses  
 
(millions of euros)  2019  2018  2017  
• Employee benefits 
expenses  3,077  3,105  3,626  
• Salary and wages  1,950  1,994  2,056  
• Social security expenses  716 738 745 
Sundry expenses  411 373 825 
• Operating expenses  7,555  8,649  8,824  
• Acquisition of goods and 
services  6,463  8,186  8,388  
• Other operating expenses  1,501  1,135  1,097  
• Change in inventories  128 (102)  (35) 
Internally generated assets  (537)  (570)  (626)  
• Lenders  1,729  1,585  1,705  
• Distributed dividends  296 281 223 
Interest expenses  1,433  1,304  1,482  
• Duties and taxes  365 696 750 
- Direct duties  241 571 639 
- Indirect duties and taxes  124 125 111 
- relating to Domestic BU  282 598 679 
- relating to Brazil BU  45 74 64 
- relating to foreign 
operations  38 24 7 
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
164 
  
 
For each jurisdiction where the Group permanently operates with its own company subsidiaries, the 
income tax expenses paid locally are shown (millions of euros ) 
 
 
Tax jurisdiction  2019  2018  2017  
Argentina                        -                   0.03                     0.45    
Austria  -                 0.02                 0.02    -                0.00    
Belgium                     0.02                 0.02                     0.02    
Bolivia                        -                       -                           -      
Brazil                   29.94                42.78                   33.64    
Bulgaria                        -                       -                           -      
Chile                        -                   0.02                     0.01    
Colombia                     0.08                     -                       0.05    
Czech Republic                     0.00                     -                           -      
France                     0.76                 0.23                     0.28    
Germany                     0.28                 0.34    -                0.04    
Greece                     0.11                     -                       0.01    
Ireland                        -                       -                       2.30    
Israel                     0.44    -            0.06                     0.16    
Italy                   85.62             684.06              1,055.23    
Luxembourg                     0.07                10.53                      4.77    
Netherlands                     0.06                 0.06                     0.05    
Panama  -                 0.03                     -                       0.02    
Paraguay                        -                       -                           -      
Peru                        -                   0.05                     0.06    
Puerto Rico                        -                   0.04                     0.08    
Romania                     0.01                  0.01                         -      
Russian Federation                     0.01                     -                       0.01    
San Marino                     0.29                  0.19                     0.14    
Singapore                        -                       -                           -      
Slovakia                     0.00                 0.00                         -      
Spain                        -      -            0.04                         -      
Switzerland                     0.03                 0.02                     0.04    
Turkey                        -                       -      -                0.27    
UK                       -                       -                       0.00    
USA  -                 0.04                  1.08                     2.30    
Venezuela                     0.01                  0.01                     0.20    
Virgin Islands (U.S.)                        -                       -                           -      
 Totals           117.64        739.38        1,099.51    
  TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
165 
 Initiatives with stakeholders – summary tables  
[GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102 -44] 
 
 
 
 
    
             Dialogue  Partnership  Information  Consultation  
 
Institutions and regulatory bodies  
Stakeholders  • Themes and  
▪ Actions/commitments  Engagement methods  
 
National institutions  • stimulate the spread of digital technologies 
and skills.  
• protection of vulnerable groups 
(cyberbullying, child pornography, gambling)  
▪ Identification of the "Key Contact for the 
Postal Police" within Security Operations 
Center (SOC) function to tackle online 
child pornography and cybercrimes,  
▪ Exclusive solution TIM -Protect for the 
total protection from web threats  • Attend the Safter Internet Center (SIC) – 
Connected Generations, which Advisory 
Board TIM is member  of (The value chain 
- Protection of underage children)  
 
National institutions  • stimulate the spread of digital technologies 
and skills.  
• fostering the development of an inclu sive 
digital society  
▪ ScuolaDigitaleTIM (The Group - Digital 
culture Projects)  
▪ Operation Digital Risorgimento (The 
value chain - Social Digital Inclusion)  
 • Memorandum signed with the Ministry 
of Education, University and Research  
Local institutions  • development of 5G, UBB infrastructures  
• impacts of electromagnetic emissions  
• stimulate the spread of digital technologies 
and skills  • Meetings, multistakeholder joint control 
committees (The Group - Relations with 
the local communities)  
Local institutions  • promote the development of smart cities 
and 5G services  
• stimulate the spread of digital technologies 
and skills  
▪ Operation Digital Risorgimento (The 
value chain - Social Digital Inclusion)  
▪ collaboration with several municipalities 
to implement long -term eco-
sustainability projects. REPLICATE 
(Florence Smart City) and the MONICA 
project (Turin Smart City), SMILE project 
(Turin Smart City). (The Environment - 
TIM initiatives for the environment)   • Agreements and protocols (The Group - 
Relations with the lo cal communities), in 
particular: Memorandum of agreement 
with the Municipality of Turin to 
strengthen the long -term collaboration 
to modernize the main city of Piedmont 
as a "digital city" (The chain of value - 
Research and development)  
National instituti ons  • Security and management of emergencies  
• Supporting the territory for sustainable 
development  
• Protection of vulnerable categories  • Protocols, Agreements and contracts 
with DPC and other Institutions for 
managing emergencies, devices to raise 
the alarm in the event of the 
disappearance of underage children, for 
the localization supporting Mountain 
Rescue associations (The Group - 
Community);   
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
166 
 • Collaboration with DPC and MISE to 
design and test an IT -Alert system in the 
event of natural disasters (The Gr oup - 
Community)   
International 
institutions  • Protection of vulnerable categories  • Attend the working group “Alliance to 
better protect minors online” started by 
the European Commission (The chain of 
value - Safeguard of underage children)  
Local instituti ons • development of 5G, UGG infrastructures and 
Research and Development  
• stimulate the spread of digital technologies 
and skills  
• development of innovative services for 
territorial control  • Agreement signed with the Liguria 
Region, the Municipality of Genoa, 
Liguria Digitale, Ericsson and TIM for the 
Digital Lab 5G. (The chain of value - 
Research and development)  
 
Local institutions, 
Business partners, 
Universities  • development and spread of Smart City 
services via 5G: public safety and driverless 
cars, environmental monitoring and Industry 
4.0.  • Memorandum of understanding with 
the Municipality of Turin for the joint 
development of activities and solutions 
for innovation applications related to the 
smart city. (The chain of value - 
Research and development)  
Universities and 
other partners  • stimulate the spread of digital technologies 
and skills  • Contributes as a partner to the efforts 
undertaken by the Industry 
Manufacturing 4.0 (CIM 4.0) to develop 
the spread of 4.0 technology in 
production processes, products and 
business models (The chain of value - 
Research and development)  
Universities  • Development of innovative technologies and 
applicable solution, particularly in terms of 
5G, IoT.  
•  • Open Innovation research areas with 
nine Italian universities (The chain of 
value - Research and development)  
Universities  • stimulate the spread of digital technologies 
and skills  • Unistem Reloaded and Unistem  tour, 
2019 -2020 joint action for the spread of 
STEM subjects (The Group - Community)  
National institutions  
Educational 
institutions  • stimulate the spread of digital technologies 
and skills  • Brazil . TIM Tec project (The Group - 
Community)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
|Civil society  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
167 
 Stakeholders  • Themes and  
▪ Actions/commitments  Engagement methods  
 
Non-profit 
organizations and 
associations, 
Research institutions, 
National Institutions  • the spread of digital technologies and skills  
• development of an inclusive digital society  • Agreement FTIM and MUIR and CNR ITD 
and NAP for the testing of a platform 
training teacher for inclusive hybrid 
classes  (The Group - Community)  
Non-profit 
organizations and 
associations  • development of an inclusive digital society  • Ten-year FTIM  project "Dislessia Amica" 
in collaboration with the Italian Dyslexia 
Association, with the goal of certifying 
85% of Italian schools as "dyslexia -
friendly" (The Group - Community)  
Non-profit 
organizations and 
associations, 107 
residents in provincial 
towns, TIM 
volunteers  • stimulate the spread of digital technologies 
and skills  
• fostering the development of an inclusive 
digital society.  
 • Operation Digital Risorgimento, training 
courses in the classroom and in the 
square, feedback collection. (The chain 
of value - Digital inclusion)  
Non-profit 
organizations and 
associations  • Ethics and integrity  
• Fight against corruption; transparency  • Attend the Business Integrity Events of 
Transparency International - June 2019 
(The Group - Fight against corruption)  
users, public and 
private institutions, 
researchers  • To promote multi -stakeholder collaboration 
for the creation of new 5G solutions in 
various areas (health, safety, smart cities, 
agrarian production.  • Brazil . TIM Participações promoted the 
Living Labs to discuss, share knowledge 
and collaborate on 5G technology. (The 
chain of value - Digital inclusion)  
Non-profit 
organizations and 
associations  • development of an inclusive digital society  • Brazil . Collaboration between TIM 
Institute and UNICEF to guarantee  the 
right to education to about 3.8 million 
children (The Group - Community)  
Research institutions 
and groups  • safeguarding privacy and personal data 
protection and security;  • Participation in the four -year project 
CONCORDIA1  (Cyber security 
cOmpeteNCe f Or Research anD 
InnovAtion2), part of the European 
research project Horizon 2020 (The chain 
of value/Research and innovation in e -
security)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                 
1  https://www.concordia -h2020.eu/  
2 Expertise in cyber security for research and innovation.  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
168 
 Customers  
Stakeholders  • Themes and  
▪ Actions/commitments  Engagement methods  
 
Consumer customers 
and business 
costumers  • Quality of service, respect for customers, 
care for the relationship, capacity for 
innovation  
▪ Transformation process “TIM around the 
Customer” which involves all employees 
in a number of  initiatives to enhance 
customer experience and strengthen 
the relation with the brand.  
▪ Interactive communication channels 
with customers (My TIM App and 
Website and social network) for a more 
reactive response to their needs and to 
keep them involved.  • Wide system for listening to customers 
and identifying customer experience in 
various "true moments" of the customer 
journey1, such as the CSI (The chain of 
value/Customer satisfaction)2 
Consumer customers 
and business 
costumers  • Customer satisfaction, qua lity of service  
▪ investments for the evolution of digital 
environment and channel “My TIM App” 
to enhance the services offered and 
customer experience.  • Brazil. Three types of customer 
satisfaction surveys, conducted on a 
national basis through interviews: on line 
with consumer customers, over the 
phone with business mobile customers, 
“Call center Satisfaction Survey”, and 
mobile customers “Call Center 
Transactional Survey” (The chain of 
value/Customer satisfaction)  
Consumer 
Associations  • Customer satisfaction, quality of service  • Collaboration with consumer 
associations (“joint conciliation”) and 
with the CoReCom for the settlement of 
disputes with customers. (The chain of 
value/Customers/Conciliation 
procedures)  
Consumer 
Associations  • Customer satisfaction, quality of service  
• development of 5G infrastructures  
• impacts of electromagnetic emissions  • In December 2019 a new collaboration 
agreement with some Consumer 
Associations were pre -announced 
(signed in February 2020), to strengthen 
the dialog on more delicate themes. 
(The chain of 
value/Customers/Conciliation 
procedures)  
Consumer 
Associations  • Customer satisfaction, quality of service  • In Brazil, TIM Participações participates 
in initiatives in collaboration with the 
agencies that constitute the Consumer 
Protection System (Forum for 
Conciliation, Consumidor.gov.br web 
platform) and has set up its own (Board 
of Users) for the reduction of complaints 
in court.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                 
1 The customer journey  is the set of experiences that a customer has when interacting with a company for a specific need, from the first contact 
with the company, through a specific channel, until, going through one or more touch points provided by the company itself or by other 
consumers, the expected result is achieved or not.  
2 Customer satisfaction  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
169 
  
 
The supply chain  
Stakeholders  • Themes and  
▪ Actions/commitments  Engagement methods  
 
Startups, ICT 
partners, Universities  • 5G, UBB networks evolution  
• Research and Development for new 
solutions and services,  
• Capacity for innovation in processes and 
business models  
• the spread of digital technologies and skills  
▪ TIM Wcap  acceleration programme and 
venture investments by TIM Ventures  • Various areas of collaboration and co -
design in Open Innovation mode both in 
the five TIM Wcap regional hubs and the 
IOT Open lab (The chain of value - 
Research and development)  
Suppliers and 
technology partners  • Innovation, Research and Development of 
technologies, telecommunication 
applications and services  
 • Brazil.  TIM Lab Innovation Center, a 
space for open innovation; aims to 
identify new approaches for the creation 
and deployment of t elecommunication 
network infrastructures, promote 
partnerships with universities and 
research institutes.  
Manufacturing 
companies, ICT 
partners, peer 
operators  • integrating social and environmental aspects 
in the supply chain  
• climate change  
• circular economy  
▪ audit of relevant suppliers and sub -
suppliers (124 in 2019)  
▪ enhancement programs (health and 
safety, environment, working hours)  
▪ training programs  • Participation in activities related to the 
initiative Joint Audit Cooperation - JAC1 
(The chain of value - Sustainability 
assessment)  
Service companies  • Research and development in AI to innovate 
products and services and the TIM offer  • Signature of a strategic agreement with 
Microsoft (The chain of value - Research 
and development)  
Manufacturing 
companies  • Innovation of 5G networks and platforms, 
development and acceleration of the 
industrialization of services, in particular for 
5G • Innovation partnership with Huawei and 
Cisco. (The chain of value - Research and 
development)  
Manufacturing 
companies, service 
companies, business 
partners  • fostering the development of an inclusive 
digital society  
• stimulate the spread of digital technologies 
and skills, in particular in the agricultural 
sector  • Brazil.  In 2019  TIM created the 
ConnectarAgro 2 ecosystem and 
pursued partnerships with Nokia and BR 
Digital to connect rural areas (The chain 
of value - Research and development)  
4,149 licensed 
vendors  • Transparency, improving communication 
and optimization of o perating processes.  • The Vendor Hub Portal counts (The 
chain of value/Suppliers)  
Suppliers at greater 
risk at the 
qualification stage; 
periodically, to 
suppliers already 
qualified  • better offer conditions, improved quality, 
compliance with the Code of Ethics and 
Conduct of TIM, the security rules, the 
environment and human rights, improve the 
sustainability of the supply chain  • Self-assessment questionnaire in terms 
of sustainability  
periodic sustainability audits made by 
third -party companies on suppliers of 
the classes with the highest risk. (The 
value chain/Sustainability throughout 
the supply chain).  
                                                                 
1  Further information is available on the jac -initiative.com website.  
2 (https://conectaragro.com.br/  ) 
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
170 
 100% new suppliers 
registered  • integrating social and environmental aspects 
in the supply chain  
• correctness of corporate conduct  • questionnaire w here the supplier 
commits both itself and its sub -
contractors, collaborators and 
employees, to observe the principles 
contained in the Code of Ethics and 
Conduct of the Group.1 (The value 
chain/Suppliers)  
 
 
 
 
 
Business community of the sector  
Stakeholders  • Themes and  
▪ Actions/commitments  Engagement methods  
 
Foreign industry 
associations and 
federations  • Innovation of networks and platforms, 
development and acceleration of the 
industrialization of services, in particular for 
5G 
• reducing energy consumption and fighting 
climate change  
• impacts of electromagnetic emissions  • Participate as a member to the activities 
of 29 standardization institutions and 
associations (The chain of value - 
Research and Development)  
Industry associations  • impacts of electromagnetic emissions  
▪ issuing guide lines  
▪ support with and training on local 
aspects of planning  
▪ development of software tools to assess 
exhibitions  
▪ regional joint TIM -ARPA round tables  • Participation in committees and work 
groups of Comitato Elettrotecnico 
Italiano (CEI)  
Other Authorized 
Operator  • Development of the 5G network 
infrastructure  • INWIT. Partnership with Vodafone to 
optimize investment (Value 
chain/Research and development)  
Other mobile 
operators in Brazil  • fostering the development of an inclusive 
digital society  
• reducing energy consumption  
• optimizing costs and resources to develop a 
network architecture  • Brazil.  2LTE RAN sharing agreement 
(Value chain/Research and 
development)  
Other mobile 
operators, OTT, peer 
operators, suppliers  • development of and experimentation with 
new technologies and solutions for the 
network infrastructure  
• creating universal standards to guarantee 
interaction for suppliers  
• improving suppliers' offer capacity  • Brazil. TIM Participações is still 
participating in the collaborative 
Telecom Infra Project (TIP) (Value 
chain/Research and development).  
Foreign industry 
associations and 
federations  • cyber security  • 3Participation, in relation to ETSI, in the 
work of TC CYBER (Value 
chain/Protecting privacy and personal 
data)  
                                                                 
1 In Brazil the percentage was 96%.  
2 Sharing of the “Radio Access Network”.  
3 European Telecommunications Standards Institute . 
 
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
171 
 Foreign industry 
associations and 
federations  • Network and services security, fraud and 
cyber crime  • Participation in the work of the GSM 
Association's fraud and security group1, 
as Deputy Chairman.  
• Collaboration, in relation to 3 GPP2 SA3 
SECAM4, in defining the safety 
requirements of the 5G infrastructure.  
• Participation, in relation to ETNO5, in the 
work of the subgroup Computer 
Emergence Response Team Task Force 
(CERT TF) 6. (Value chain/Protection  of 
privacy and personal data)  
Foreign industry 
associations  • Protection of vulnerable categories  • Participation in work groups in relation to 
“Mobile Alliance against Child Sexual 
Abuse Content (GSMA)” to protect 
children on mobile phones (Value 
chain/Ch ild protection)  
 
 
Financial community  
Stakeholders  • Themes and  
▪ Actions/commitments  Engagement methods  
 
institutional and 
retail investors, small 
shareholders’ 
associations, 
bondholders, socially 
responsible investors, 
equity and credit 
analysts.  
 • Updated information, financial and non -
financial, on the Group, with the greatest 
attention to the needs of all the various 
categories of stakeholders  • On the Group's website7 and in the 
shareholders' club “TI Alw@ys ON”8, TIM 
provides important information to 
individual investors individuali and the 
general public (about 96,000 active 
members in 2019).  (The TIM 
Group/Stakeholders engagement).  
 
Shareholders, 
bondholders, socially 
responsible investors, 
equity and credit 
analysts.  • cash generation and potential support for 
the Group's deleverage path with 
extraordinary options;  
• the network sharing agreement signed with 
Vodafone to develop 5G and share the 
mobile network;  
• the consumer credit agreement with 
Santander and the set-up of a dedicated 
joint venture;  
• the agreement with Google Cloud to develop 
and push TIM in the Italian market for the 
cloud, with a focus on dynamics of data 
center development;   
• potential forms of association with Open 
Fiber;  
• 5G and potential competitive development;  
• growth of customers served by FTTx 
technology, convergent services and • In 2019, the Investor Relations function 
ran more than 900 direct, group and 
individual meetings, with audio or video. 
There were four calls when the annual 
and quarterly results were announced, 
road shows and meetings at the Group's 
offices (reverse road shows), and the 
Group took part in the main conferences 
in the TLC sector.  
                                                                 
1 Fraud and security.  
2 The 3rd Generation Partnership  Project.  
3 Security Assurance . 
4 SECurity Assurance Methodology . 
5 European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association . 
6 Computer Emergency Response Team Task Force.  
7 (https://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/investors.html)  
8 (https://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/investors/azioni/investitori -individuali/club -tialwayson.html)  
  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
172 
 penetration of business customers into ICT 
services;  
• big opportunities to reduce costs;  
• CAPEX trend;  
• development of TIM Brasil and positive 
results;  
• Corporate G overnance topics.  
 
 
People  
Stakeholders  • Themes and  
▪ Actions/commitments  Engagement methods  
 
30,000 employees 
(64% of the 
company's people)  • development of the Company's human 
capital  
• encouraging diversity and favoring equal 
opportunities in the Company;  
• effectiveness of management  
• engagement and personal satisfaction  
▪ Action plans on areas monitored, 
including under the “Donna” project 
launch ed in 2019  
▪ New engagement survey in 2020  • Engagement survey 2019 (Value 
chain/Commitment to our people)  
9,042 employees 
(96% of the total)  • managing the workforce  
• development of the Company's human 
capital  
• effectiveness of management  
• engagement and personal satisfaction  • Brazil . Corporate climate survey (Value 
chain/Commitment to our people)  
managers, 
professionals and 
office workers  • development of the Company's human 
capital  
• effectiveness of management  • In 2018, the performance management 
process involved 99.8% of people and 
86% received feedback from their 
superior. (Value chain/Research and 
development).  
Millennials at TIM 
S.p.A. (about 300 
people)  • Stakeholder engagement  • Self-engagement map (SEM): new tool 
for assessing the level of en gagement 
Value chain/Development and new 
skills)  
4,300 people in 
technical fields  • development of skills to handle new 
technologies  • Skill assessment projects (Value 
chain/Research and development)  
all the TIM Group's 
employees, including 
new hires  • safeguarding privacy and personal data 
protection and security  • Online form for training on the GDPR 
updated, with obligation of use, after 
updating policy and procedure.  Other 
training initiatives are dedicated to 
specific categories of employee and 
man ager. (Value chain/Protection of 
privacy and personal data)  
Heads of all company 
departments.  • safeguarding privacy and personal data 
protection and security  • Brazil  In 2019, TIM Participações held 
seminars to spread a culture of privacy, 
in the interests of  
Customer care 
operators  • development of skills to handle new 
technologies  
• proper customer relationship 
management;  • Various methods of involvement and 
continuo us refreshment on the web 
portal “TUO” (Find, USE, and Plan" and 
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
173 
 weekly gamification1 initiative for agents 
(Value chain/Customers/Customer 
satisfaction)  
All the company's 
people  • development of the Company's human 
capital  
• engagement  • Brazil.  Management of performance, 
using a personalized approach for 
various areas of the company and new 
tool “Mais Feedback”. (Value 
chain/Research and development).  
Trade unions, TIM 
people  • managing the workforce  
• development of the company's human 
capital (new hires and new qualifications 
for TIM people)  
• Work -life balance  
• Development of people and skills  
▪ “Expansion contract”  
▪ New flexible working methods  • Agreements between social partners as 
part of the negotiation to renew the 
second -level contract (Value chain/TIM 
people)  
Trade unions,  • managing the workforce  
• Profit -sharing program in 2019  
• renewal of 2019 –2020 collective bargaining 
contract (approved by 98% of 2,000 
employees with the right to vote)  • Brazil . 19 meetings with the trade union 
representatives (Value chain/TIM 
people)  
TIM people  • managing the health and safety of workers  
▪ the Safety Steering Committee has 
committed to reaching the target of 
zero accidents  • SicurinTIM project, lasting 12 months 
from November 2019, with various 
initiatives. (Value chain/TIM people)   
TIM people, family 
members and friends  • protect diversity and promote equal 
opportunities in the Company;  • calendar of initiatives for spreading and 
raising awareness of a culture of 
diversity.   
 
 
 
  
                                                                 
1 It consists of applying typical elements of gaming (e.g. scoring, competition with others, game rules) to other areas of acti vity, generally as an 
online marketing technique to encourage involvement with a product or service.  
TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
174 
 Table of the links between topics covered by Decree 254/16, topics which emerged as material in 
the TIM materiality analysis and the adopted GRI reporting standard. Evidence of limits  
 
 
  
Reducing the environmental impact of TIM’s 
operationsGRI 302: Energy 
GRI 305: Emissions Group TIM Group TIM contributes indirectly 
through the relationship with 
suppliers and business partners
Integrating social and environmental aspects in 
the supply chainGRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 
GRI 414: Supplier Social AssessmentGroup TIM Group TIM contributes indirectly 
through the relationship with 
suppliers and business partners
Fair management of customer relationsGRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Group TIM -
Safeguarding privacy and personal data 
security and protectionGRI 418: Customer Privacy Group TIM -
Integrating social, environmental and 
governance aspects into corporate strategiesNon GRI topic BU Domestic-
Stakeholders engagementGRI 102-43: Approach to stakeholder 
engagementGroup TIM -
Impacts of electromagnetic emissions GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety BU Domestic-
Fostering te development of an inclusive digital 
society Non GRI topic Group TIM -
Stimulate the spread of e-technologies and e-
skillsNon GRI topic Group TIM Group TIM contributes indirectly 
through the relationship with 
suppliers and business partners
Investments in 5G, UBB infrastructures 
development and in R&D GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Group TIM BU Domestic contributes indirectly 
through the relationship with 
suppliers and institutions
Protection of vulnerable groups (Cyberbulling, 
child pornography, gambling) GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety BU DomesticGroup TIM contributes indirectly 
through the relationship with 
suppliers and institutions
Managing the workforce GRI 401: Employment  
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations Group TIM -
Managing workers' health and safety GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety Gruppo TIM Group TIM contributes indirectly 
through the relationship with 
suppliers 
Development of the company's human capital GRI 404: Training and Education Gruppo TIM -
Protect diversity and promote equal 
opportunities in the companyGRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
GRI 406: Non-discrimination Gruppo TIM -
Respect of human 
rightsPromoting and safeguarding human rightsGRI 406: Non-discrimination 
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective 
Bargaining 
GRI 408: Child Labor 
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 
GRI 410: Security Practices 
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment )Group TIM Group TIM contributes indirectly 
through the relationship with 
suppliers and business partners
Fight against 
corruptionCorrectness of the corporate conductGRI 205: Anti-corruption 
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 
GRI 415: Public Policy 
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Group TIM Group TIM contributes indirectly 
through the relationship with 
suppliers and business partnersEnvironmental 
Social
Employee issues  Legislative Decree 
254/2016 topicMaterial topic 2019 TIM GRI Standard Topic Disclosure (2006) Corporate boundary 	 External boundaryTIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
175 
   
 
 
 
GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
Organizational profile
102-1 Name of the organization 13
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 13
102-3 Location of headquarters 13
102-4 Location of operations 13
102-5 Ownership and legal form 13
102-6 Markets served 13
102-7 Scale of the organization 13, 15, 16, 91, 162
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 91, 92, 115, 116
102-9 Supply chain 147
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 10, 13, 14
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 27, 40
102-12 External initiatives 30, 128
102-13 Membership of associations 30
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 40
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 30
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 28
Governance
102-18 Governance structure 25, 26, 29
102-19 Delegating authority 25,27,29
102-20Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 
and social topics 27, 29
102-21Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and 
social topics 27, 29
102-22Composition of the highest governance body and its 
committees 25, 26
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 27
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 25, 26
102-25 Conflicts of interest 27
102-26Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, 
and strategy27, 29
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 26
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 26
102-29Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and 
social impacts27, 40
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 27, 40[GRI 102-55]  GRI CONTENT INDEX (2016)
for “In accordance”- Comprehensive
GRI 101: Foundation 2016GENERAL DISCLOSURES
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016TIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
176 
  
 
 
 
 
GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 26, 29
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 27, 29
102-33 Communicating critical concerns 28
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 28
102-35 Remuneration policies 28, 29
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 28
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 28, 99
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 100 The ratio between the annual total 
compensation of the highest paid 
individual and the median annual
total compensation for all employees was 
not disclosed for confidentiality constraints. 
It was judged to fall under the category of 
information subject to the "Policy for the 
classification and management of 
confidentiality information" in that the 
datum, once disclosed and if not properly 
understood, could cause the company a 
reputational
damage.
102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 100The ratio between the annual total 
compensation of the highest paid 
individual and the median annual
total compensation for all employees was 
not disclosed for confidentiality constraints. 
It was judged to fall under the category of 
information subject to the "Policy for the 
classification and management of 
confidentiality information" in that the 
datum, once disclosed and if not properly 
understood, could cause the company a 
reputational
damage.
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 34
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 103
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 35
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement35, 36 122-128, 
143, 145, 146, 165
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised36, 122, 124-128, 
143, 145, 146, 165
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 10, 13
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 10, 37
102-47 List of material topics 10, 40
102-48 Restatements of information 10 13
102-49 Changes in reporting 40
102-50 Reporting period 10
102-51 Date of most recent report 10
102-52 Reporting cycle 10
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 10
102-55 GRI content index 175GENERAL DISCLOSURESTIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
177 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 73, 77, 81, 84
103-2 The management approach and its components 73, 76,84, 86, 87
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 75,76,77,81,83, 84
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported73,75,80,83,84,140,1
42
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 83, 85, 87,140,142
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 31, 32
103-2 The management approach and its components 32
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 31, 32
205-2Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 
and procedures33
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 32
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 33
103-2 The management approach and its components 33
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33
206-1Legal action for anti-competitive behavior, antitrust and 
monopoly practice33, 34
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 54
103-2 The management approach and its components 55
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 61, 64
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 61Energy consumption outside the 
organization is not reported
302-3 Energy intensity 64
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 61
302-5Reductions in energy requirements of products and 
services60The quantity of product consumption 
reductions is not expressed as the 
company has no product lines.
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 54
103-2 The management approach and its components 55
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 54, 67, 69
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 67
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 67
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 69
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 69
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 67
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 68, 69
305-7Nitrogen oxides (NO X), sulfur oxides (SO X), and other 
significant air emissions67Not Applicable. Nitrogen oxides (NOx), 
sulfur oxides (SOx) and other air emissions 
from TIM Group's operations and activities 
are negligible and therefore not reported.MATERIAL  DISCLOSURES
Anti-corruption
EnergyIndirect Economic Impacts
EmissionsGRI 206 Anti-competitive BehaviorTIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
178 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 147
103-2 The management approach and its components147,148,149,150, 
151
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 152
308-1New suppliers that were screened using environmental 
criteria148, 149
308-2Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 
actions taken148, 150
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 88
103-2 The management approach and its components 88, 89
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 88
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 91, 116, 117
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employees114
401-3 Parental leave 91, 117
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 103
103-2 The management approach and its components 89, 103
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 104
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 103
103-1 Explanation of material topic and its Boundaries 106
103-2 The management approach and its components 106
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 88
403-1Workers representation in formal joint 
management–worker health and safety committees106
403-2Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 
lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related 
fatalities108, 118The number and rate of accidents 
relating to external workers are not 
shown
403-3Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 
related to their occupation107, 155
403-4Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 
with trade unions106, 109
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 94
103-2 The management approach and its components 89, 94
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 96
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 99, 118
404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programs95, 96, 97
404-3Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 
and career development reviews94, 95Labor/Management Relations
Occupational Health and Safety
Training and EducationSupplier Environmental AssessmentMATERIAL  DISCLOSURES
EmploymentTIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
179 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 92
103-2 The management approach and its components 112
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 93, 111
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 93
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 120
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 154
103-2 The management approach and its components 111, 154
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 111
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 155, 159
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 154
103-2 The management approach and its components 154, 155
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 111
407-1Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining may be at risk148, 150, 156
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 154
103-2 The management approach and its components 154, 156
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103
408-1Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 
child labor103, 148, 155
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 154
103-2 The management approach and its components 154, 156
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 154
409-1Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 
forced or compulsory labor103, 148, 150,155
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 154
103-2 The management approach and its components 154
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 154
410-1Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 
procedures149
103-1 Explanation of the material topict and its Boundary 154
103-2 The management approach and its components 154
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 154
412-1Operations that have been subject to human rights 
reviews or impact assessments155
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 157
412-3Significant investment agreements and contracts that 
include human rights clauses or that underwent human 
rights screening147Diversity and Equal OpportunityMATERIAL  DISCLOSURES
Security Practices
Human Rights AssessmentFreedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
Child Labor
Forced or Compulsory LaborNon-discriminationTIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
180 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GRI Standard DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 147
103-2 The management approach and its components 147, 148, 150
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 150, 152
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 148
414-2Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 
taken148, 150
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 33
103-2 The management approach and its components 33
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33
415-1 Political Contributions 33
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 132
103-2 The management approach and its components 132, 133
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 132
416-1Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 
and service categories132
416-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 
safety impacts of products and services133
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 132
103-2 The management approach and its components 132, 133
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 132
417-1Requirements for product and service information and 
labeling133
417-2Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 
service information and labeling133
417-3Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 
communications135
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 136, 137
103-2 The management approach and its components 136, 137
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 136, 139
418-1Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses of customer data136, 139
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 132
103-2 The management approach and its components 132
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 132
419-1Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 
and economic area34, 134, 135MATERIAL  DISCLOSURES
Public Policy Supplier Social Assessment
Customer Health and Safety
Customer Privacy
Socioeconomic ComplianceMarketing and LabelingTIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
181 
  
 
 
  
GRI Standard  Definizioni Numero pagina e 
URL Omissioni
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 8
103-2 The management approach and its components 7
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 3
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 17
103-2 The management approach and its components 8, 17
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 17
103-2 The management approach and its components 3
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 8, 14, 85
GRI Standard 2016 DisclosurePage number(s) 
and URL(s)Omission
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 16,163
201-2Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 
due to climate change55
201-3Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement 
plans113
201-4 Financial assistance received from government 162
303-1 Water withdrawal by source 64
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 70
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 58
411-1Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 
peoples159
413-1Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs19
413-2Operations with significant actual and potential negative 
impacts on local communities19Rights of Indigenous PeoplesWaterNON MATERIAL DISCLOSURES
Integration of social, environmental and governance aspects into corporate strategies
Fostering the development of an inclusive digital society
Stimulate the spread of e-technologies and e-skills
Local CommunitiesEffluents and Waste
Enviromental ComplianceEconomic Performance Material TopicsOTHER DISCLOSURESTIM Sustainability Report 2019  
APPENDIX  
182 
 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT 
AUDITORS  
 [GRI 102 -56] 
 
 
  
 
EY S.p.A. 
Sede Legale: Via Lombardia, 31 - 00187 Roma 
Capitale Sociale Euro 2.525.000,00 i.v. 
Iscritta alla S.O. del Registro delle Imprese presso la C.C.I.A.A. di Roma 
Codice fiscale e numero di iscrizione 00434000584 - numero R.E.A. 250904 
P.IVA 00891231003 
Iscritta al Registro Revisori Legali al n. 70945 Pubblicato sulla G.U. Suppl. 13 - IV Serie Speciale del 17/2/1998 
Iscritta all’Albo Speciale delle società di revisione 
Consob al progressivo n. 2 delibera n.10831 del 16/7/1997 
 
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited   
 
2 
  
 
 
 
o 
o 
o 
  
 
3 
  
 
 
 
 