SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT 2013
Letter to Stakeholders 
Telecom Italia has confirmed its commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility in a chal-
lenging domestic macroeconomic scenario, with continuing difficulties in the labour mar-ket, benefiting from a growth in Brazil, albeit slower than in the previous year, in the belief that sustainable businesses are the ones most able to react in times of crisis.
The industrial nature of Telecom Italia is strongly interconnected with the contexts in which 
it operates. Our Group has a clear positive effect on the economy, which stems from the investments made in infrastructure and services. Maintaining leadership in innovation is one of the priorities of the 2014-2016 Business Plan, a commitment supported by the mix of investments, where spending on innovation has doubled compared to the previous Business Plan. This will allow us to relaunch investments in new generation networks in Brazil and to hook into the recovery in Italy, improving the competitiveness of the produc-tion system. 
Focus on technological innovation is combined with environmental protection and, in par-
ticular, energy efficiency. Constant improvement on this front remains one of the most chal-lenging goals for Telecom Italia, the second biggest electricity user in the country. Over the past three years, we have introduced constant monitoring of Energy Efficiency Certificates (so-called White Certificates) application activities for the benefit of investment projects, with major impacts on energy efficiency. A strong focus on this specific area has allowed revenue of 16 million euros to be earned in White Certificates. These figures make Tel-ecom Italia the absolute leader among Italian telecommunication companies in terms of introducing innovative high energy performance technologies and solutions. In 2013, we also achieved the ISO 50001 certification, which is the most widely recognised interna-tional best practice in energy management.
Telecom Italia can contribute to the European Digital Agenda objectives not only by achiev-
ing internal efficiencies but also by aiming to transfer technologies to its customers that have positive environmental, social and economic impacts. Our laboratories have long been engaged in researching and developing these technologies, many of which are al-ready being tested on the market. Thus customers already have a wide range of solutions available to them to reduce energy consumption, lower CO
2 emissions and improve quality 
of life for citizens. This is one of the reasons why a significant portion of our investments goes towards strengthening services which are fundamental for developing and meeting the demand for ultrabroadband: cloud computing with Nuvola Italiana, Data Centres, ICT platforms for small and medium-sized enterprises. 
Mindful of the fact that the success of Telecom Italia depends on our skills and expertise, 
in December 2013 the People Value function launched the new three-year People Strategy for 2014-2016, aimed at developing the skills of the people who work in the Group. For this purpose, several areas of action have been identified with the aim of enhancing and devel-oping core skills and the abilities required to excel in the various competitive scenarios, improving the standard of care and motivation among people and renewing the individual performance management model. 
Telecom Italia has always been very attentive to the Supply Chain. Through the Joint Au-
dit Cooperation (JAC), work continued in 2013 to verify the standard of CSR performance among suppliers and sub-suppliers with production plants located in geographical areas with a significant level of socio-environmental risk. Launched at the end of 2009, the initia-
tive currently brings together ten of the biggest operators in the telecommunications sec-tor. Furthermore, the new process implemented to assess the sustainability of suppliers has allowed us to improve further performance monitoring throughout all stages of the re-lationship with the supply chain.In view of the current economic crisis, we have increased our support for the community, both directly and through the Telecom Italia Foundation. In 2013, the Foundation in fact doubled the number of projects delivered, thus confirming the Group’s commitment to the community. Among the various initiatives based on the use of social technologies, our commitment focused on countering communication difficulties among young people through the Volis, SI DO RE MI and Cinque Petali projects, while not forgetting our com-mitment to protect the historic and artistic heritage and supporting the development of education, training and scientific research. The Group also continued to work with major Italian artistic and cultural organisations to develop projects aimed at combining excellent cultural content with digital language, making the most of the interaction opportunities of-fered by the Internet, as in the case of the Academy of Saint Cecilia. 
Furthermore, in the context of the “Changemakers for Expo Milano 2015”, an enterprise 
acceleration programme linked to the challenges presented by Expo Milano 2015, Telecom Italia has selected ten projects that are strongly focused on digital technologies, such as smart cities, opendata, web 2.0 and sustainability in terms of access, inclusion, fairness, justice, participation and reducing environmental impact.
Our commitment to supporting the values of sustainability and the initiatives carried out 
have won us major national and international recognition, which includes confirmation of our presence in the major international sustainability indexes, including the Dow Jones Sustainability and FTSE4Good indexes.
Support continued for the United Nations Global Compact: the progress achieved in apply-
ing the ten principles is reported in the Communication On Progress (COP). Telecom Italia is also a Founding Promoter of the Global Compact Network Italia Foundation, set up in June 2013, which aims to contribute to the development of the United Nations Global Com-pact (UNGC) in Italy, disseminating knowledge about it throughout the country and promot-ing corporate sustainability through member companies and organisations. 
2013 was a very important year for our Group. We achieved greater financial flexibility and 
refocused on Italy and Brazil. We can now redouble our efforts to develop more industrial projects, including digital networks and services that are increasingly interconnected with our social and economic context. We are committed not to miss this opportunity to be ever more present and incisive in pursuing more ambitious objectives including increasingly in-tegrating sustainability in our business model. We believe all these efforts are an essen-tial prerequisite for continuing growth and success for the Group, now and in the future.
 Marco Patuano
 (Chief Executive Officer)Introduction
External
stakeholdersEXECUTIVE SUMMARY  7
1. REFERENCES AND GOVERNANCE  
 17
2. CHARTERS AND CODES  18
3. HOT TOPICS  21
4. PLACEMENT IN THE INDEXES  21
5. OTHER ACKNO
WLEDGEMENTS  22
6. REPORTING  22
7. 2013 RESULTS AND 2014 OBJECTIVES  26
8. SUSTAINABILITY MANA
GEMENT  26 
9. STAKEHOLDER INV
OLVEMENT  27
10. HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE  31
11. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERA
TED AND DISTRIBUTED  32 
1. CUSTOMERS  37
1.1 STRATEGY  37
1.2 RELEVANT ST
AKEHOLDERS  37
1.3 QUALITY OF THE SERVICE  38
1.4 CUSTOMER SATISF
ACTION  39
1.5 CERTIFICATIONS  40
1.6 DIGITAL INCLUSION  41
1.7 INNOV
ATIVE SERVICES  42
1.8 RESEARCH AND INNOV
ATION IN E-SECURITY  45
1.9 CHILD PROTECTION  46
1.10 CONCILIATION PR
OCEDURES  47
1.11 SAFEGUARDING PRIVA
CY AND PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION  48
2. SUPPLIERS  51
2.1 STRATEGY  51
2.2 RELEVANT ST
AKEHOLDERS  51
2.3 GENERAL MATTERS  52
2.4 SUSTAINABILITY INITIA
TIVES  52
2.5 SUSTAINABILITY CHECKS  53
2.6 INVOL
VEMENT INITIATIVES  54
2.7 2013 RESULTS AND 2014 COMMITMENTS  55
3. THE ENVIRONMENT  57
3.1 STRATEGY  58
3.2 RELEVANT ST
AKEHOLDERS  58
3.3 ENVIRONMENT
AL PERFORMANCE  58
3.4 CLIMATE CHANGE  73
3.5 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY  744. THE COMMUNITY  77
4.1 STRATEGY  77
4.2 RELEVANT ST
AKEHOLDERS  78
4.3 HOW THE CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY IS MEASURED  78
4.4 RESPONSES TO THE STAKEHOLDERS  79
4.5 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT  86
1. HUMAN RESOURCES  99
1.1 STRATEGY  99
1.2 RELEVANT ST
AKEHOLDERS  100
1.3 HEADCOUNT AND CHANGES  100
1.4 GENDER BALANCE  102
1.5 PEOPLE CARING  103
1.6 DEVELOPMENT  107
1.7 SELECTION  108
1.8 TRAINING  109
1.9 LISTENING ACTIVITIES AND PR
OJECTS  110
1.10 INTERNAL COMMUNICATION  111
1.11 HEALTH AND SAFETY  112
1.12 INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS  115
1.13 REMUNERATION POLICY  116
2. SHAREHOLDERS  119
2.1 STRATEGY  119
2.2 STAKEHOLDERS AND THEIR EXPECT
ATIONS  119
2.3 FINANCIAL COMMUNICATION  121
2.4 RISK MANAGEMENT  121
2.5 CORPORATE GO
VERNANCE  122
RESULTS FOR 2012 AND 2013  127
2014 AND MULTIANNU
AL TARGETS  130
REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS (PRICEW
ATERHOUSECOOPERS)  133Internal
stakeholders
Appendix
Auditor’s reportGROUP STRUCTURE
The Telecom Italia Group operates in all the areas of advanced communication: fixed, mo-
bile and Internet telecommunication as well as research and development, office & sys-tem solutions, contributing to the digitisation and development of the countries in which it operates. In addition to its domestic leadership, the Group has a significant international presence in the South American market.
The Group operates in the following business sectors:
•
 the “Domestic” Business Unit operates in the field of fixed and mobile voice and data 
ser
vices for end customers (retail) and other operators (wholesale) in the domestic 
context. Internationally it includes activities related to the development of optical fibre networks (international wholesale) in Europe, the Mediterranean and South America;
•
 the “Brazil” Business Unit (TIM Brasil Group) pro
vides mobile telecommunication ser-
vices. Furthermore, thanks to the acquisitions of Intelig Telecomunicações, Tim Fiber SP and Tim Fiber RJ, it also offers optical fibre data transmission and residential broad-band services;
•
 Media is a networ
k operator through Telecom Italia Media Broadcasting (TIMB), Italy’s 
third terrestrial digital network operator, providing transmission capacity and technologi-cal solutions for TV industry operators; 
•
 Olivetti operates in the IT products and ser
vices sector, acting as a solution provider in 
automating company processes and activities for SMEs, large companies and vertical markets.
Our Group is organised in such a way as to provide the most effective support for a cus-tomer-centric approach, promoting a convergence between fixed and mobile technologies.8 | EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Revenues EBITDA EBIT Industrial 
investmentsHeadcount at year-end 
(units)
(million euros) 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 12.31.2013 12.31.2012
Domestic 16,175 17,884 7,746 8,676 1,993 1,078 3,027 3,072 52,695 53,224
Brazil 6,945 7,477 1,812 1,996 858 966 1,349 1,500 12,140 11,622
Media 124 222 (2) (45) (132) (263) 20 57 84 735
Olivetti 265 280 (4) (57) (8) (65) 4 3 682 778
Other activities - 62 (15) (37) 1 (3) - 7 22 22
Adjustments 
and eliminations(102) (166) 3 (8) 6 (4) - - - -
Consolidated total 23,407 25,759 9,540 10,525 2,718 1,709 4,400 4,639 65,623 66,381
ITALY BRAZIL
OLIVETTI MEDIA
KEY ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL DATA
Telecom Italia Group – Main consolidated economic and financial data
 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY | 9
BACKGROUND
Telecom Italia began to deal with sustainability in 1997 by creating a department dedi-
cated to publishing the first social report. The document evolved into the Sustainability Report and included an analysis of performance in respect of stakeholders with whom the Company interacts on a daily basis.As of 2002, the data and information regarding sustainability became part of the Report on Operations for the consolidated Financial Statements, thus confirming the Group’s inten-tion to present its financial data together with its non-financial data. In 2002, Telecom Italia published the Group’s first Code of Ethics and signed up to the Global Compact, the global pact by the UN to promote the protection of the environment, respect for human rights and working standards, and anti-corruption practices. In 2003, a structured system for managing sustainability based on indicators (Key Per-formance Indicators) was implemented to measure the results achieved in respect of all stakeholders and allow appropriate improvement actions to be planned. At the end of 2008, sustainability was formally brought to the attention of the Board of Di-rectors through the Committee for Control and Risks, which performs a senior supervision function in this respect.In 2009, the Sustainability Report was drawn up for the first time according to the princi-ples of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS), which involve stakeholders Telecom Italia Group – Other consolidated economic and financial data
12.31.2013 12.31.2013
(million euros)
Total net equity 20,186 23,012
• attributable to Parent Compan
y Shareholders 17,061 19,378
• attributable to minority Shareholdings 3,125 3,634
Profit (loss) for the financial year attributable to Parent Compan
y 
Shareholders(674) (1,627)
Profit (loss) for the financial year attributable to Minority 
Shareholdings436 350
Net financial accounting debt 27,942 29,053
Telecom Italia Group – Main operational data by Business Unit
12.31.2013 12.31.2012
DOMESTIC FIXED
Physical connections at year end (thousands) 20,378 21,153
Broadband connections in Italy at year end (thousands) 8,740 8,967
DOMESTIC MOBILENumber of lines at year end (thousands) 31,221 32,159
BRAZILNumber of lines at year end (thousands) 73,417 70,36210 | EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
in the reporting and the underlying processes and are the most advanced standard in this 
area.With this Report, Telecom Italia marks its 15th year of sustainability reporting.As a confirmation of the results achieved, Telecom Italia was included in the prestigious international sustainability indexes, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) and the Financial Times Stock Exchange for Good (FTSE4Good).
THE BIG SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES FOR TELECOM ITALIA 
People Value
Telecom Italia confirms its continuous care for people working in the Company: a new way of designing and implementing strategies and policies for valuing people was launched in 2013.A three-year People Strategy was developed according to the Group Business Strategy and the main human capital management and development trends. The strategy consists of nine People Value (the new name of Human Resources, emphasizing the new identity based on the value of people) programmes. It will operate in close cooperation with the main Line functions, fully sharing their purpose, cross-contaminating each other and boost-ing innovation and effectiveness.This collaboration will provide a kind of control and governance room for processes fo-cused on the value of people: devising a new model for professional development and for highlighting opportunities in the internal market; developing the new skills required by business, particularly through recourse to the external market; establishing a centre of knowledge to support individual and organisational learning processes; developing an or-ganisational identity; adopting a pay-for-value model to establish a ratio between cost, pro-ductivity and perceived value and rewarding people entirely based on merit, a new perfor-mance management model extended to all; implementing a management model focused on caring and on motivating people.A small but significant revolution which, starting with the People Value function, intends to change the way we manage and develop our greatest asset: people, their time in the com-pany, their room for action, the climate, as part of a return by everyone to thinking about and building quality in efficiency and encouraging the commitment to continual change that the market requires. Six of the nine programmes will be completed in 2014. People Value will implement a com-munication and deployment plan through direct meetings and online and social networking tools, in order to allow all employees to take part with comments and contributions. For details of the initiatives taken regarding Telecom Italia personnel see § Human Re-
sources.
Customer service
The achievement of high standards of customer satisfaction is a priority for Telecom Italia. The listening system was further extended in 2013 to ensure more effective monitoring of the interaction with customers, analyse perception and identify areas of development for the services with a view to achieving ongoing improvements. Specific attention has also been paid to customer care, which provides for the use of social networks to ensure quick and ef-fective interaction with operators. Customer satisfaction is taken into consideration in the manager and staff incentives system. As a fundamental player in the broadband ecosystem, the Telecom Italia Group is responsible for ensuring that the technological development it brings by offering innovative services is always associated with the balanced development  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY | 11
of the population in terms of computer literacy, contributing to overcoming the socio-cultural 
barriers that can restrict the opportunity to participate in the information society and enjoy its benefits. Particular attention is therefore paid to customers with specific needs or belonging to the weaker members of society, such as children, the elderly, the sick and the disabled. In the context of public sector services, in accordance with the Italian Digital Agenda or ADI (Agenda Digitale Italiana) and European Directives, in 2013 Telecom Italia consolidated and streamlined its offer of Smart Services, a range of services for energy efficiency and digital services in urban areas, which it has combined with its Urban Security and Digital School ini-tiatives providing new services dedicated to security, the environment, mobility and schools, providing a comprehensive response to the needs of cities and surrounding areas. The aim is to promote the “smart city” model to improve quality of life by developing innovative digital services to ferry municipalities towards a Smart Community model (as described in the Digi-tal Agenda) that enables new forms of cooperation between citizens and public authorities.As regards children and safe Internet browsing, The Navigare Sicuri project, aimed at making children, young people and adults (parents and teachers) aware of how to use the Internet and digital technologies sensibly and responsibly, came to an end in 2013. Navigare Sicuri received many official endorsements, including the memorandum of understanding with the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research (MIUR), inclusion in the ITA-EU CSR plan and the endorsement of the programme as a best practice by FOSI (Family Online Safety In-stitute). For further information see §  Customers and The Community . 
Fighting climate change 
Reducing emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases in order to limit the increase in 
the earth’s temperature to levels that are deemed acceptable is one of humanity’s great-est challenges.The Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector can play a vital role in this field, not only by limiting its own CO
2 emissions, which are primarily generated 
by the significant energy requirements of transmission networks, but above all by contrib-uting to reducing emissions from other sectors of the economy by offering advanced solu-tions to improve the efficiency of industrial and commercial processes, as well as innova-tive services to promote different and more environmentally sustainable lifestyles, such as video-conferencing, teleworking, telemedicine and services that generally promote eco-nomic dematerialisation, replacing current systems with lower impact alternatives in terms of CO
2 emissions (e-commerce, e-government, e-tourism, online billing and payments, etc.). 
ICT solutions allow intelligent buildings to be constructed in which technology combined with new materials considerably improves levels of energy consumption, comfort and safe-ty. By using “smart grids”, these solutions allow electricity distribution to be adapted to actual requirements, allowing considerable amounts of energy to be saved, with benefits for citizens and companies, and contributing to the creation of more efficient, safer digital cities with lower CO
2 emissions. In this respect, Telecom Italia has carried out the Smart 
Town offer, based on an integrated platform of services for “smart” cities which uses ex-isting public lighting systems, integrated with telecommunication networks, to implement innovative environmental management, security and energy saving services for local au-thorities and the public. Telecom Italia’s energy efficiency has also been recognised by the Energy Efficiency Certificates (known as White Certificates) granted to nine projects relat-ing to previous years, corresponding to over 23,000 TOE (tonnes of oil equivalent) saved per year, and a saving in financial terms of over 16 million euros. A further 18 projects are currently being assessed, also relating to previous years, corresponding to an annual sav-ing, already achieved, of a further 55,000 TOE. For further information see § Customers/Innovative Services and The Environment/Cli-
mate change.12 | EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Supply chain management
Managing the social and environmental aspects of the supply chain is strategically impor-
tant for Telecom Italia considering the significant volumes and the diversity of procurement markets, particularly for purchases made in countries that require a greater degree of at-tention to be paid to specific social and environmental requirements.Monitoring these requirements allows the risks associated with the supply process to be minimised, in terms of the impact on business activities and negative effects on the com-pany’s reputation. It also allows opportunities to be maximised by establishing long-lasting cooperation that brings benefits in terms of improving efficiency, productivity, product qual-ity and cost reduction in the context of the supply chain. At the end of 2009, Telecom Italia contributed to setting up the JAC (Joint Audit Coopera-tion), together with Orange and Deutsche Telekom. The agreement assigns each member responsibility for managing audits of a pre-established number of common suppliers and sub-suppliers. These audits are carried out by third party companies with proven experi-ence in the industry, selected by competitive tender, based on the principles agreed be-tween the JAC members. If non-conformities are found, a corrective action plan is drawn up and its progress monitored on a constant basis. The audit results are shared among all the members, who are completely free to take decisions independently and individually. The exchange of information is governed by confidentiality agreements signed by the JAC members and suppliers involved. By the end of 2013, ten telecommunication operators had joined in the initiative. For further information see § Suppliers.
Contribution to the community
As a large company, Telecom Italia has a major impact on the communities of the countries in which it operates. First of all it contributes to improving general well-being by distributing part of the value produced through salaries and wages, payments to suppliers and work providers, interest to capital investors and dividends to shareholders (see § Economic val-
ue produced and distributed). Furthermore, the investments made are of general benefit to the community in terms of infrastructure and services, while also promoting virtuous ef-fects on the supply chain. The Group’s contribution to the community also includes products and services that im-prove people’s quality of life by promoting new ways of learning, travelling, working and looking after oneself, reducing the need for travel and therefore increasing the amount of free time and improving quality of life in general. One example is the achievements made in the field of e-learning and evolved digital education. The demand for evolved educational services has undergone a profound transformation in recent years. The focus has shifted from the simple electronic use of content to the disseminating and sharing knowledge by more engaging methods. The solutions already integrated in the Telecom Italia e-learning platform and the prototypes of the ones developed by analysing the requirements of the educational world, meet the demand for evolved services based on collaboration, commu-nication and the active involvement of end users. Telecom Italia signed a memorandum of understanding with the MIUR (Ministry of Education, Universities and Research) for meas-ures to support the digital school plan, which operates on two main fronts: firstly by launch-ing new activities in the context of Navigare Sicuri (Safe Browsing, see § The Community/Initiatives consistent with the core business) and secondly, as part of the ministerial cl@ssi 2.0 initiative, by starting experiments with primary and secondary schools geared to-wards the use of electronic texts and web-based digital education tools (see § The Com-
munity/Research and development). EXECUTIVE SUMMARY | 13
MAIN RESULTS OF 2013
Results(*)Reference to the chapters in the Report
1% reduction in electricity consumption The Environment/Environmental performance/
Energy
A reduction of around 4% in the energy consumed for transportThe Environment/Environmental performance/Energy
An increase of 12% in the eco-efficiency indicatorThe Environment/Environmental performance/Energy
Less than 1% increase in CO
2 emissions The Environment/Environmental performance/Atmospheric emissions
Reduction of around 22% in the use of paper for office useThe Environment/Environmental performance/Paper
5% reduction in the consumption of water The Environment/Environmental performance/Water
Confirmation of Telecom Italia’s and TIM Brasil’s inclusion in the leading international sustainability indexesIntroduction/Placement in the indexes
Social and environmental projects continue, including activities run by the Telecom Italia Foundation, amounting to a total investment in the community of 46.6 million eurosThe Community/Responses to the stakeholders
Community/How the contribution to the 
community is measured
Numerous awards received for design and communication activities related to sustainabilityIntroduction/Other acknowledgements
The “I care about myself” project continues, allowing employees to enrol free of charge in a number of university facultiesHuman Resources/Training
People Caring activities continue in favour of employees and their familiesHuman Resources/People Caring
*
The percentage increases or decreases shown in the table are calculated in comparison to 2012 data. The results regarding the environment refer to the Domestic BU.1. REFERENCES AND GOVERNANCE
The Telecom Italia Group operates with the conviction that business activities must be con-
ducted in a way that considers the expectations of stakeholders, in keeping with the princi-ples established by internationally recognised standards. In defining and implementing its sustainability strategy and programmes, the Group is inspired by the guidelines issued by the main global guidance and standardisation organisations in the field of Corporate Re-sponsibility.
In 2002, Telecom Italia subscribed to the principles of the main point of reference at the 
global level, that is, the Global Compact, which was launched in 2000 by the UN to promote the protection of the environment, respect for human rights and working standards, and anti-corruption practices. The System of Sustainability Management also takes into account the principal reference regulations and international standards:•
 European Commission directives, recommendations and com
-
munications; 
• the OCSE guidelines directed at multinational enterprises;
• the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 certificates go
verning Quality and 
Environmental Management Systems;
• principles of the International Labour Organization (ILO) Con
ven-
tions on respecting the fundamental rights of workers;
• the Social AccountAbility 8000 standard (SA 8000), aimed at promoting respect for hu
-
man rights and working conditions by companies and their supply chains; 
• AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS 2008) drawn up b
y AccountAbility, an 
international organisation which promotes collaboration between stakeholders, and THE MAIN INDUSTRY INTERNATIONAL 
STANDARDS ARE THE REFERENCE  
FOR THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY.  
IN 2002, TELECOM ITALIA SIGNED UP  
TO THE GLOBAL COMPACT18 | INTRODUCTION
lays down standards and guidelines on matters of sustainability. The APS 2008 estab-
lishes the principles that a Company must respect in order to define itself as account-able, which are covered in the § Reporting;
•
 ISO 26000 guidelines for private and public organisations of all sizes.
The Group’s Cor
porate Governance system is founded on the central role of the Board 
of Directors and the Independent Administrators, the transparency of management deci-sions, the effectiveness of the Internal Control System and on the strict regulations on po-tential conflicts of interest. The Internal Control System includes the Organisational Model pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 231 of June 8, 2001, aimed at preventing offences such as corruption, extortion and corporate offences. Sustainability is subject to the supervision of the Committee for Control and Risks, which ensures the consistency of actions carried out with the principles of the Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct and with the values adopted by the Group. The Committee also moni-tors the development of laws, regulations and best practice regarding corporate social re-sponsibility, including projects run by the Telecom Italia Foundation.
2. CHARTERS AND CODES
The undertakings given by the Group to its stakeholders are expressed in a system of Char-ters and Codes available in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
The Service Charters, which are intended to simplify the relationship with customers and 
make it more direct, set out the principles of conduct and undertakings given by Telecom Italia regarding the quality of the services offered. They also provide information regarding the ongoing improvement of quality standards and contact channels available to custom-ers. The Service Charters are available on the Group’s commercial websites (telecomitalia.it, impresasemplice.it, tim.it).
The General Conditions of Subscription, which govern relations with subscribers and are additional to the Service Charters, are pub-lished on the following websites telecomitalia.it, tim.it, impresasem-
plice.it and nuvolaitaliana.it. The General Conditions of Subscription for fixed telephony are also published in telephone directories.Furthermore, in order to comply with various resolutions of the Ital-
ian communications authority regarding quality, the relevant websites state the annual ob-jectives set for the individual services (fixed and mobile voice, Internet access, call centre services for customer support). A selection of the objectives and their respective levels of achievement is set out in the Appendix.
The other commitments undertaken by the Group are contained in the following docu-
ments, which are available in the sustainability section of the Internet site:•
 “Social responsibility in the Telecom Italia Group” on compliance with labour standards within the Group,
 with particular reference to child labour, forced labour, health and 
safety, freedom of association, discrimination, disciplinary procedures, working hours and pay.
•
 “Relations with suppliers in T
elecom Italia Group’s procurement process”, which gov-
erns the negotiating ethic of the Group (transparency, the separation of roles, fairness and traceability) and the requirements that Telecom Italia demands of its suppliers in the area of working and environmental standards.A SYSTEM OF CHARTERS AND CODES 
EXPRESSES THE UNDERTAKINGS GIVEN BY 
THE GROUP TO ITS STAKEHOLDERSINTRODUCTION | 19
• “Green Procurement Policy”,  which is intended to minimise the environmental impact 
directly attributable to the Company and its suppliers in the context of the procurement 
process.
• “Telecom Italia Group Guidelines on V
oluntary Contributions to the Community”, which 
govern the ways in which the Group makes investments in favour of the Communities in which it operates.
•
 “Code of conduct for the confidentiality of OLO (Other Licensed Operators) Data”,
 which 
ensures the proper handling and confidentiality of data by the departments that supply services to other operators.
•
 “Telecom Italia Group Guidelines for Responsible Mar
keting”, which outline the princi-
ples followed by the Group to ensure honest, transparent and fair business practices in addition to those contained in the Charters and Codes mentioned above.
Further commitments are contained in the “Self-Regulation Code for Mobile Services”, “Code of Conduct for Premium Services”, “Self-Regulation Code for Commercial Commu-nication” and in a series of codes relating to the protection of children and consumers.
In the belief that the success of the company cannot be separated from business ethics, 
the Code of Ethics and Conduct underlines a number of key objectives for the Company’s activity in respect of the main stakeholders with whom the Group interacts. Respecting the Code is a requirement for statutory bodies, managers and employees of all the companies of the Group, as well as for collaborators and third parties in business relationships with the Group, within the boundaries of their respective competence, functions and responsi-bilities.
Telecom Italia Group Code of Ethics and Conduct
Telecom Italia’s Code of Ethics and Conduct underlines a number of fundamental princi-ples for everyone working in the Group. These principles, which are listed below, provide useful behavioural references:
Excellence of the service
We pursue excellence towards customers, creating value for the shareholder and the com-munities in which we operate.Ethics and Compliance We operate in compliance with the law and with universally accepted ethical principles, based on transparency, fairness and loyalty. CompetitionWe promote fair competition that serves the interests of customers and of every player in the market.Human resources We value the Group’s people, respecting each other’s differences, within a framework of loyalty, observance of ethical values and trust. Communication We ensure the transparency of our actions in our relationship with customers, the market, investors, the community, employees and all stakeholders in general. The CommunityWe contribute to the prosperity and growth of the communities in which we operate, re-specting the environment and the rights of future generations. Health and SafetyWe protect health and safety in the workplace, ensuring respect for the physical and moral integrity, rights and dignity of workers. 20 | INTRODUCTION
HOT TOPICS TABLE
Topics Stakeholders Telecom Italia commitment Reference
RELATIONS WITH 
CUSTOMERSCustomers Attending to customer requirements and improving 
customer satisfaction are among Telecom Italia’s main objectives and are the subject of numerous projects and initiatives.Customers/Customer satisfaction
DIGITAL INCLUSIONCustomers,The CommunityThe dissemination of information and communications technologies can create social and geographical discrimination. The risk of exclusion is especially high for certain population bands, such as the elderly, the sick and the disabled. Telecom Italia has carried out numerous initiatives to ensure the wide availability of the new technologies.Customers/Innovative servicesThe Community/Responses to the stakeholders
CLIMATE CHANGE Customers, Suppliers,The Environment, The CommunityThe Group is committed to reducing its CO
2 emissions 
and to providing services that contribute to reducing emissions in other sectors.The Environment/Climate Change
RELATIONS WITH EMPLOYEESHuman ResourcesEven at a difficult time for the global economy, the Group pays the maximum possible attention to the needs of employees in terms of training, development and the improvement of company welfare.Human Resources
SUPPLY CHAIN Suppliers, The Environment, The CommunityWith the globalisation of the markets and supply, the monitoring of the supply chain becomes a vital element in the sustainability of businesses. The Group is implementing a series of actions designed to protect the environment and working standards and to promote the principles of sustainable procurement.Suppliers/Initiatives of sustainabilityThe Environment/Product responsibility
PRIVACY AND DATA SECURITYCustomers Telecom Italia has implemented a series of measures 
to protect data security and the privacy of those who use the networks and services.Customers/Safeguarding privacy and personal data protection
CHILD PROTECTIONCustomers The spread of the Internet is a great opportunity but 
it can also be a source of danger, particularly for the youngest in society. Telecom Italia has implemented a series of measures to protect children from content that could harm their psychological and physical development, and to prevent and detect any abuse carried out through telecommunication networks.Customers/Child Protection, The Community/Responses to the stakeholders
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS/ INVESTORSShareholders The dialogue with the investors on financial and non-
financial issues is of strategic importance for a major, quoted company. In order to improve communication with the stakeholders, Telecom Italia promoted a series of meetings regarding Corporate Governance. Shareholders/Financial communication
INTRODUCTION | 21
3. HOT TOPICS
Sustainability concerns all the company processes but certain matters are of particular 
importance and are consequently given special consideration in implementing the model of Corporate Responsibility defined by the company. These are the sustainability “Hot Top-ics” identified by Telecom Italia Group on the basis of:•
 requests made by the sustainability rating agencies for admission to the rele
vant sustain-
ability indexes for the industry, through questionnaires assessing the Group’s performance; 
• requests from investor
s during the dedicated road shows or one-to-one contacts; 
• analysis of the media and reports published b
y the specialist agencies; 
• benchmarking of the sustainability activities car
ried out by other companies, in Italy and 
abroad;
• opinions expressed by stak
eholders consulted directly (see § Stakeholder Involvement). 
The Hot Topics shown in the table, together with other aspects of the company’s activities, are taken into consideration in determining the relevance of the reporting, in accordance with the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS) - (see § Reporting).
4. PLACEMENT IN THE INDEXES
Sustainability indexes are stock indexes in which securities are selected not only on the basis of economic-financial parameters but also in the light of social and environmental cri-teria. The selection process is carried out by specialised agencies that assess companies on the basis of publicly available information or questionnaires, taking account of opinions expressed by the media and stakeholders. Inclusion in these indexes is of strategic im-portance to companies because of the positive effects on their reputation and because, in addition to the pension funds and ethical funds, an ever increasing number of investors favour sustainable companies, considering them to be less risky and more promising in the medium to long term.Its involvement in the assessment process is also a useful time for the Company to reflect on the results achieved. In fact, at the end of this process, the indications given by rating agencies are taken into account in planning future improvement actions.
In 2013, Telecom Italia’s place was confirmed, for the tenth year running, in both the Dow 
Jones Sustainability indexes:•
 Dow Jones Sustainability Wor
ld Index (DJSI World); 
• Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index (DJSI Europe). 
Since the inception of the Financial Times Stock Exchange for Good (FTSE4Good) series,
 
Telecom Italia has been present in all the major indexes:•
 FTSE4Good Global;
• FTSE4Good Europe. 
Telecom Italia is also included in the following indexes: •
 Euronex Vigeo: 
 › Europe 120;
 › Eurozone 120.22 | INTRODUCTION
• Ethibel Sustainability Indexes (ESI): 
 › Excellence Europe; 
 › Excellence Global.
• ECPI Indexes:
 › ECPI Euro Ethical Equity;
 › ECPI EMU Ethical Equity. 
Moreo
ver, Telecom Italia is classified as “prime” in the OEKOM rating.
Tim Participações, the listed holding company of the TIM Brasil Group, has had its position 
confirmed in the ISE (Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial) index, managed by BM&F Bovespa (the São Paolo stock exchange) together with the Brazilian Environment Ministry and other financial and sustainability organisations.
5. OTHER ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The main awards won by Telecom Italia concerning sustainability and its communication, include the following:•
 second place in the Italian and European KWD Webranking 2013 that assesses and re
wards the best corporate online communication. The rankings drawn up by KWD, the 
digital division of Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, working with Lundquist, respectively con-sidered the 100 biggest Italian companies and the 500 biggest European companies included in the FT Europe 500 index;
•
 Aretê prize aw
arded to Telecom Italia’s AvoiComunicare for the #acchiappasogni web-
series in the Internet category. In cooperation with Confindustria and ABI, Unesco Italia, foundations and associations, the Nuvolaverde award highlights individuals and organi-sations who have distinguished themselves for effective communication that complies with the rules regarding responsibility. Over 140 programmes, social initiatives, web pro-jects, campaigns and events were assessed in 2013;
•
 Top Emplo
yers 2013 certification awarded annually to Italian companies that excel in 
the field of HR management.
6. REPORTING
Scope and criteria
In accordance with the principle of materiality, unless otherwise stated, only subsidiaries included in the consolidated accounts that have revenue greater than 300,000 euros and more than 40 employees are taken into consideration in the sustainability reporting. This excludes discontinued companies and non-current assets held for sale, the data for which have been excluded both from the current year and the previous one, in order to al-low comparability.
In accordance with the triple bottom line
(1) approach, the company’s economic and finan-
cial data has to be analysed and represented together with the environmental and social 1
This approach was defined for the 
first time by John Elkington in 1994 in the article “Towards the sustainable corporation: Win-win-win business strategies for sustainable develop-ment”, California Management Review 36, no. 2: 90-100.INTRODUCTION | 23
results. The overall analysis of company performance including all 
three dimensions provides stakeholders with complete and com-prehensive information and allows interests to be balanced in a way that guarantees the success and survival of the company in the medium and long term. For this reason, as of FY 2002, the Group has integrated the sustainability data in the Annual Financial Statements, in fact preceding the application of European Directive 51/2003, which was transposed in Italy by Legislative Decree No. 32 of 2 February 2007. 
The Sustainability Report is based on a multi-stakeholder approach involving the joint anal-
ysis of actions taken in respect of the main stakeholders with whom the Company inter-acts. It is drawn up according to a system of indicators (KPI - Key Performance Indicators) which measure the responsiveness and degree of achievement of objectives previously established for areas in which the Company has a major impact. 
The KPIs are defined on the basis of:
•
 the analysis of the Global Reporting Initiative’
s guidelines(2);
• the demands received from stakeholder
s; 
• the questionnaires sent out by the leading rating agencies for the pur
pose of admission 
to the stock market sustainability indexes;
• the experience gained by the Compan
y over the years in the field of sustainability. 
The KPIs are managed on a dedicated application system (BPC) that uses the same plat-form for financial reporting and controlling.
AccountAbility 1000 and GRI/Global Compact connection
The Sustainability Report is based on the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (APS 2008), adopted as of 2009, and set out below:•
 inclusivity: identification of the stak
eholders and their expectations, and development 
of involvement strategies aimed at improving the Company’s sustainability performance;
• materiality: identification of the impor
tant issues for the organisation and its stakehold-
ers;
• responsiveness: a description of the initiatives 
carried out by the Company to meet the 
expectations of stakeholders. 
The Telecom Italia sustainability Report’s compliance with the AA1000 standard is verified by the auditing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (see § Independent Auditors’ Report).
Through the materiality analysis, Telecom Italia identifies the priorities on which to focus 
its actions. The analysis is the result of a periodic assessment of stakeholders’ expecta-tions and internal priorities conducted by the Corporate Social Responsibility department together with other business functions in their respective areas of responsibility. The process involves three key steps:•
 identifying and updating the sustainability aspects to be taken into consideration;
• prioritising the aspects identified by le
vel of importance, both internally (Telecom Italia) 
and externally (stakeholders) in order to identify material aspects;
• validating the material aspects and identifying methods for reporting the results achie
ved.2
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
is an international organisation which has developed universally applicable guidelines for drawing up sustain-ability reports.THE REPORTING IS CONSISTENT WITH THE 
TRIPLE BOTTOM LINE APPROACH24 | INTRODUCTION
A description is given below of the criterion used to define materiality for stakeholders and 
for Telecom Italia:•
 for stakeholder
s it is determined by assessing the context in which Telecom Italia oper-
ates, the evolution of trends characterising the telecommunication industry and the sec-tors served by its products and services, the commitments made by the Company, both nationally and internationally, the feedback and demands received from stakeholders. The stakeholders considered include ethical rating agencies, institutions, associations, NGOs, employees, suppliers, competitors and customers;
•
 for T
elecom Italia is instead determined by analysing the short and long term strategy, 
while also considering the Group’s sustainability performance. 
The following matrix illustrates the material aspects identifed:
The analysis was carried out based on the KPIs stated in the GRI framework. The results 
shown in the graph display a growing interests among shareholders in issues connected with ICT products and services that take socio-environmental and safety aspects into ac-
Relations with
competitors 
Economic development
Privacy and
securityRelations with
shareholders
and analystsRelations with
media
Direct environmental
impactProduct
liability
Relations withinstitutions
 The impacts on the supply chainRelations with employeesResponsible products
and services from
social and environmental
point of view
Relationswith local
communitiesRelations with NGOsDigital inclusionRelations
with customersEnergy
management
Child
protection
Stakeholder interest/expectation levelThe impact (economic, environmental or social) on Telecom Italia
high medium low
high medium lowINTRODUCTION | 25
count. Some specific stakeholders, e.g. Human Resources and Customers, are obviously 
more interested in issues that affect them directly.
The following table gives indications of the chapters/paragraphs and pages which make 
direct or indirect reference to the principles of the Global Compact and the respective GRI indicators.
Global Compact (GC) 
PrinciplesRelevant GRIIndicatorsRelevant Chapters/Paragraphs Page
1. Businesses should support 
and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in the areas of the respective spheres of influence.HR1-7, LA4, LA7-9, LA13, PR1, PR8References and Governance, Charters and Codes, Reporting, Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, The Community, Human Resources17, 18, 22, 27, 51, 77, 99
2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit, even indirectly, in human rights abuses.HR1-7 References and Governance, Charters and Codes, Suppliers, Human Resources17, 18, 51, 99
3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association of workers and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.HR1-3, HR5, LA4-5 Charters and Codes, 
Reporting, Stakeholder Involvement, Human Resources18, 22, 27, 99
4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.HR1-3, HR7 Charters and Codes, 
Suppliers, Human Resources18, 51, 99
5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.HR1-3, HR6 Charters and Codes, 
Suppliers, Human Resources18, 51, 99
6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.HR1-4, LA2, LA13 Charters and Codes, 
Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, Human Resources18, 27, 51, 99
7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.EC2, EN18, EN26 Hot Topics, Reporting, 
Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, The Environment, Results 2013 and Objectives 2014 in the Appendix21, 22, 27, 51, 57, 127, 130
8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.EN3, EN5-6, EN8, EN16-19, EN22-23, EN26-29, PR3Stakeholder Involvement, Suppliers, The Environment, Results 2013 and Objectives 2014 in Appendix27, 51, 57, 127, 130
9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.EN5-7, EN18, EN26Hot Topics, Reporting, The Environment, The Community21, 22, 57, 77
10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.SO2-4 References and Governance, Charters and Codes, Suppliers, Shareholders 17, 18, 51, 11926 | INTRODUCTION
The Content Index, which is one of the documents used by the GRI to examine the Group 
for the purpose of its qualification, and the Application Level Table, which shows the re-quirements set for the various qualification levels by the GRI, are available in the sustain-ability section of the telecomitalia.com website.Since 2008, GRI has verified that the report is prepared according to the GRI Guidelines, atApplication Level A+. 
7. 2013 RESULTS AND 2014 OBJECTIVES
These are shown in the Appendix to this Report.The targets of a qualitative nature for suppliers are included in the respective chapter.
8. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT
Mission and structure
Sustainability management in Telecom Italia is ensured by the Group Corporate Social Re-sponsibility structure, which performs the following activities:•
 promotes the corporate social responsibility throughout the Group;
• devises sustainability plans and programmes, working with the company functions that have operational responsibility for them;
•
 contributing to the dissemination of a correct approach to sustainability within the com-
pany, under the perspective of continuous improvement;
• ensuring the reporting to the outside of the activities of sustainability carried out;
• managing relations with specialised rating agencies for the purpose of admission to stock market sustainability indexes;
•
 representing the Group in the relevant national and international forums.
The sustainability governance model is based on the following guidelines:•
 inclusion of a summary of the sustainability data within the Financial Statement, thus confirming the Group’s determination to present its financial performance jointly with non-financial information;
•
 collaboration with the stakeholders through projects and initiatives at various levels (see § Stakeholder Involvement);
•
 definition of quantitative objectives in line with the major sustainability issues (see Ap-pendix);
•
 integration between sustainability and innovation: a specific section is dedicated to is-sues of business responsibility within the technological Plan, the document in which the Company defines its strategy in terms of the maintenance and evolution of the trans-mission network;
•
 confirmation of international undertakings regarding sustainability, including member-ship of the Global Compact and the respective Italian network and the ETNO (Euro-pean Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association) Corporate Responsibility Charter;
•
 contribution to projects and initiatives on a national and international basis, also devel-oped in the context of the sector organisations (see § The Environment/Environmental 
Performance and Suppliers);INTRODUCTION | 27
• adherence to the main international standards on matter s of sustainability (see § Refer-
ences and Governance and § Reporting);
• continuous improvement of its own perfor
mance, including through benchmarking with 
peers;
• contribution to the spread of a correct approach to sustainability issues b
y means of 
communication initiatives organised within the Company and externally (see § The En-
vironment/Strategy).
9. STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT
Stakeholder involvement, which includes listening to their requests, is one of the pillars of 
Telecom Italia’s sustainability model.In order to facilitate dialogue with stakeholders on matters of greatest interest, the con-tacts area of the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website shows the contact details of the Corporate Social Responsibility function managers.
The table on the following page shows the main initiatives in which stakeholders were in-
volved in company processes, classified according to the guidelines recommended by Ac-countAbility (see § Reporting), except for the initiatives relating to Competitors and Institu-
tions, details of which can be found in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.28 | INTRODUCTION
STAKEHOLDERSINITIATIVES
INFORMATION CONSULTATION DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIP
THE 
ENVIRONMENTProduct environmental declarations for customers – Telecom Italia Green Range(The Environment/Product Responsibility/Telecom Italia Green) Collaboration with other TLC operators on issues of environmental relevance within the framework of industry associations, including GeSI and ETNO(The Environment/
Relevant stakeholders  
and Climate change )
The AvoiComunicare integrated communication project encourages discussion about environmental and social topics (telecomitalia.com)
THE COMMUNITYThe Italiax10 Foundation, a Telecom Itaia Foundation initiative, involved Telecom Italia Group employees in presenting projects, in partnership with their trusted charities, in three areas: violated rights, care and support for dependent elderly people and combating poverty (The Community/Responses to the stakeholders). The “Navigare Insieme” and “Navigare Sicuri” projects have involved young people, adults and elderly people in digital education and safe use of the Internet(The Community/Responses to the stakeholders)Many projects carried out in partnership with companies, universities, research centres and non-governmental and civil society organisations. (The Community/Responses to the stakeholders and Research and Development)INTRODUCTION | 29
STAKEHOLDERSINITIATIVES
INFORMATION CONSULTATION DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIP
HUMAN 
RESOURCESInternal communication activities (Human Resources /Internal communication)“Archimede” project (Human Resources/Listening projects and activities)Mailboxes, Intranet, blogs, virtual communities, multimedia conventions to communicate with employees(Human Resources/Listening projects and activities)Selection and training programmes carried out with research centres, universities, associations and foundations (Human Resources/Selection)
Courses on health and safety matters(Human Resources/ Health and safety)Initiatives carried out by the People Caring Centre to fulfill the requirements of employees (Human Resources/People Caring)Information and discussion sessions with trade unions on matters of interest (Human Resources/Industrial Relations)As part of the strategic partnership with Bocconi, a new “TIM Chair in Market Innovation” was established. Studies will be focused on determining which tools, strategies and organisational approaches can promote innovation and the creation of new markets, strategies and marketing (Human Resources/Selection)
Initiatives to improve the management of diversity in the Company (Human Resources/People Caring)Counselling service for dealing with personal difficulties or problems at work experience by employees (Human Resources/People Caring)Volunteering initiatives with the involvement of employees and external partners (Human Resources/People Caring) 
Involvement of employees in the stress at work assessment programme (Human Resources/Health and safety)The “I care about myself” project continued with the main trade unions, which allows employees to enroll free of charge with a number of different university faculties(Human Resources/Training)30 | INTRODUCTIONSTAKEHOLDERSINITIATIVES
INFORMATION CONSULTATION DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIP
CUSTOMERS Information on the 
Service Charters and General Conditions of Subscription via the Group’s websites (Introduction/Charters and Codes)Customer satisfaction is surveyed systematically (Customers/Customer Satisfaction)Collaboration with the consumer associations(Customers/Conciliation procedures)Participation in national and international working groups, in partnership with UN agencies, non-governmental organisations, and organisations in the sector, on the issue of protecting children from potential abuses carried out via the Internet(Customers/
Child protection at telecomitalia.com)
Use of web-based tools on social networks by customer care operators to talk to customers and share their knowledge(Customers/Quality of service and at telecomitalia.com)Partnership projects with institutions and other companies to test and create innovative services(Customers/Innovative services)
SUPPLIERS Exchange of information and documentation with suppliers via the “Vendors hub” portal (Suppliers/Involvement initiatives)Seventh survey of satisfaction with the Purchasing department, and more generally with Telecom Italia, conducted among the Group’s main suppliers(Suppliers/Involvement initiatives)Collaboration areas dedicated to the main suppliers available on the Vendors Hub portal (Suppliers/Involvement initiatives)JAC project which provides for CSR audit activities conducted in the production plants of suppliers and sub-suppliers based on an agreement signed with other TLC operators (Suppliers/Sustainability checks)
Self-assessment questionnaire sent to the most risky suppliers in terms of sustainability(Suppliers/Involvement initiatives)
SHAREHOLDERS The “TI Alw@ys ON” shareholders’ club (telecomitaliaclub.it) provides important information to individual investors and the general public (Shareholders/Financial communication)Three monthly conference calls, meetings at institutional offices of the Group (reverse road shows), participation in sector conferences, making a total over 400 investors meetings (Shareholders/Financial 
communication)
Online financial reporting(Shareholders/Financial communication)Meetings with stakeholders on corporate governance issues (Shareholders/Financial 
communication)
INTRODUCTION | 31
10. HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE
In 2005, Kofi Annan, who was Secretary General of United Nations at the time, appointed 
Prof. John Ruggie of Harvard University as his Special Representative for Business and Human Rights, to produce the respective Guiding Principles, subsequently approved by the United Nations Human Rights Council in 2011.These principles provide companies with an overview of human rights due diligence activity and a model for managing the risk of a negative impact on themselves.
With specific regard to Telecom Italia:
•
 between 2008 and 2011 it par
ticipated in the United Nations Global Compact Human 
Rights Working Group, and then became a member of the Peer Learning Group on Busi-ness and Human Rights set up within the Global Compact Network Germany;
•
 in 2012, it w
as involved in the first Company Coaching and Capacity Assessment on 
Business and Human Rights, organised by the Global Compact Network Germany, during which the OCAI (Organisational Capacity Assessment Instrument) tool for human rights due diligence in companies was presented. The main goals of the due diligence are:
 ›to increase aw
areness within the company/business function of its position regarding 
respect for human rights; 
 › to highlight any gaps or consistencies within the compan
y; 
 ›to help assess and improve the ability of the compan
y/business function to manage 
the impacts on human rights;
 › to allow comparison with similar companies (peers); 
 ›to define the appropriate aspiration for the company/business function and the path it needs to follow to achie
ve it; 
• in 2013, each of the nine business functions selected(3) completed the questionnaire 
individually and in accordance with its mission. The first stage of the due diligence was completed with feedback which the Corporate Social Responsibility function supplied to the departments involved. Actions are currently being devised to improve current perfor-mance
(4) regarding human rights. 
The due diligence is also nearing completion in the TIM Brasil Group.3
BSO/Vendor Assessment & Processes 
Governance; Compliance/Compliance 231; PRA/Privacy; PRA/Consumer Protection (for the VAS service); PRA/Consumer Protection (for access to TLC services); PV/Health & Safety; PV/Equal Opportunities; PV/Industrial Relations; PV/Industrial Relations (for the Human Rights Policy).
4
On a scale of 1 to 6 (where 1 is the minimum level and 6 is the maxi-mum) the average score of all the an-swers given by the Functions involved was 4.3 (defined by the OCAI tool as “Proactive Experimentation”). 32 | INTRODUCTION
11. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED
The economic value generated and distributed to stakeholders is shown below(5). Since 
2008, the method of presentation recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
has been adopted, with appropriate adaptation. 5
The value distributed to the 
stakeholder, The Community, is not shown in the table. Please see the respective chapter.
2013 2012
(million euros)
DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED
A) TOTAL REVENUE AND OPERATING INCOME 23,731 26,044
B) INTEREST PAYABLE AND DIVIDENDS PAID 149 167
C) NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON DISPOSALS OF NON-CURRENT 
ASSETS (82) 52
D) DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED (A+B+C) 23,798 26,263
ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED
E) OPERATING COSTS 10,976 12,067
F) EMPLOYEE COSTS 3,087 3,333
G) SHAREHOLDERS AND PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL 2,508 3,047
H) TAXES AND DUTIES 961 988
I) ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED (E+F+G+H) 17,532 19,435
ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED (D-I) 6,266 6,828
2013 2012
(million euros)
WAGES AND SALARIES 2,183 2,386
SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS 788 847
OTHER EXPENSES 116 100
EMPLOYEE COSTS 3,087 3,333
INTRODUCTION | 33
2013 2012
(million euros)
PURCHASES OF MATERIALS AND SERVICES 10,377 11,289
OTHER OPERATING COSTS(*)1,190 1,355
CHANGE IN INVENTORIES (48) 4
INTERNALLY GENERATED ASSETS (543) (581)
OPERATING COSTS 10,976 12,067
2013 2012
(million euros)
DIVIDENDS DISTRIBUTED 595 993
INTEREST PAYABLE 1,913 2,054
SHAREHOLDERS AND PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL 2,508 3,047
2013 2012
(million euros)
INCOME TAXES 833 869
INDIRECT TAXES AND DUTIES 128 119
TAXES AND DUTIES 961 988
REGARDING ITALIAN ACTIVITIES 819 792
REGARDING ACTIVITIES ABROAD 142 196
*
Mainly includes write-downs and charges connected to the management of non-financial credits of 380 million euros (501 million euros in 2012), accruals for risks of 
100 million euros (197 million euros in 2012), and contributions and fees for the performance of TLC activities of 482 million euros (548 million euros in 2012) net of “Other taxes and duties” of 128 million euros (119 million euros in 2012) included in the item “Taxes and duties”.to improve people’s quality of lifeThe Company’s
1. CUSTOMERS
1.1 STRATEGY
Telecom Italia Group companies base the excellence of their products and services on 
customer care. Their aim is to ensure an immediate and effective response to customer requirements, modelling their conduct on business propriety, transparency in contractual relations and undertakings, courtesy and collaboration, ensuring customer focus and in full compliance with the principles established by company procedures. Cooperation with consumer asso-ciations, which includes entering into specific agreements with them, is also highly valued.
1.2 STAKEHOLDER RILEVANTI
The relevant stakeholders are:•
 consumer customers (residential),
 particularly customers with special needs (the disa-
bled, the elderly, children, etc.);
• business and top customers (major clients) and Public Administration;
• consumer associations.38 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| CUSTOMERS
1.3 QUALITY OF THE SERVICE
Telecom Italia has expanded its customer listening system to include satisfaction surveys 
on processes and services delivered, customer experience monitoring systems, which develop interaction between the company and its customers, and web listening systems, aimed at promptly seizing opportunities for improvement.
For information about the main activities carried out in 2013 to improve the customer ex-
perience see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
Top management manages the quality aspects of customer listening activities via the 
Steering Committee Quality Governance, which meets monthly and is chaired by the CEO, with the aim of: •
 directing and supervising initiatives and activities aimed at impro
ving end-to-end pro-
cess quality; 
• monitoring the quality 
results achieved and analysing them, particularly in relation to 
the quality requirements set by the supervisory Authorities, the most important/recur-ring complaints by customers and, more generally, the feedback from all stakeholders; 
•
 supervising the quality cer
tification process during the launch of new products/services 
offered to customers, particularly those that have the greatest impact in terms of image and competitive positioning on the market.
Since 2012, Telecom Italia has been monitoring “conversations” on the Web regarding quality in the Telecommunication sector, relating to both fixed and mobile communication and the consumer and business segments. This monitoring takes place using a tool that performs a semantic search and analysis of the subjects most frequently discussed on the Internet and analyses the “tone” (web sentiment) of conversations about Telecom Italia and its competitors. The aim is to make a prompt assessment of how customers perceive offers and services, gaining a greater insight into specific issues to support the business.
In 2013, Telecom Italia strengthened its presence on social networks (Facebook and Twitter), focusing on customer care in particular. The results show a high level of satisfaction, with substancial increases compared to the values recorded in 2012, particularly thanks to the greater ability to provide answers to customers. Excellent results have been achieved in terms of response times and the number of responses, leading TIM to become one of the 10 best brands on Facebook globally
(*). 
Social Network activity also provided further details and information on all the products offered by the company, providing customers with an easy-to-use tool for gathering information about all the sales-related aspects of our operations.Telecom Italia also consolidated its leadership in the general community (over 4 million likers and more than 700,000 followers) with the following brands: Telecom Italia, TIM, Impresa Semplice, Cubovision, Cubomusica, Working Capital, Seria A TIM, Nuvola Italiana. For information about the social networking tools available to call centre operators, particularly TUO, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website. Use of social networking 
in customer care
*
Source SocialBakers. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 39
 CUSTOMERS | 
Over 1.6 million documents from 19,500 sources were read and analysed during 2013.
1.4 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
Customer listening at Telecom Italia
The customer listening system aimed at monitoring customer satisfaction covers the fol-
lowing areas:•
 operational processes and events assessed on a “reactive” basis,
 i.e. immediately after 
a specific event (e.g. delivery, assurance, sale, sales support); 
• customer contact channels (e.g. points of sale,
 customer care, web, billing);
• ke
y products and services (e.g. fixed and mobile broadband);
• life cycle (customer journe
y) monitored during the main stages of the customer’s relation-
ship with his/her operator;
• customer satisfaction assessed on a “reflective” basis, 
i.e. not in connection with a 
specific event, determined by the Customer Satisfaction Index - CSI - which adopts the international statistical survey standards (ACSI - American Customer Satisfaction Index model) to determine perceived quality in relation to the main satisfaction drivers for the various customer segments (consumer fixed, consumer mobile, small enterprise fixed and mobile, large/medium enterprise and vertical), particularly in comparison to similar services offered by the leading competitors (except for the vertical segment). The CSI is certified in accordance with the UNI 11098:2003 standard (guidelines for determining customer satisfaction and for measuring the respective process indicators). 
In 2013, the Customer Satisfaction surveys were reviewed in order to broaden the Cus-tomer Experience appraisal.
The CSI values of Telecom Italia by segment are shown below.
The information in the following table refers to the average annual progressive value of 
total customer satisfaction with Telecom Italia’s customer care service measured on a “re-active” basis.CUSTOMER SEGMENT
2013 2012(*)
CONSUMER 75.84 75.45
SMALL ENTERPRISE 65.56 65.88
LARGE/MEDIUM ENTERPRISE + VERTICAL 71.75 71.38
TOTALS 73.01 72.76
Average satisfaction is measured on a scale of 0-100, where 0 means “not at all satisfied” and 100 means “completely satisfied”.
*
For the purposes of this trend, the 2012 result has been recalculated based on the new CSI 2013 model.40 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| CUSTOMERS
Customer satisfaction within incentives schemes
Telecom Italia’s managerial incentive systems include many targets associated with cus-
tomer satisfaction, in keeping with the business plan for the current period. These targets are measured using customer satisfaction indexes monitored by means of periodic sur-veys: the overall CSI for the Company and the specific customer satisfaction indicators per customer segment. Additional specific targets associated with quality parameters and consistent with the crite-ria established for corporate and segment customer satisfaction indexes have been estab-lished for particularly critical processes and activities (commercial and technical front-end).Specific targets associated with customer satisfaction have also been established within the collective incentives scheme related to the employees of the Caring Service and Open Access Division (canvass).For customer satisfaction data relating to Brazil, see the sustainability section of the tel-ecomitalia.com website.
1.5 CERTIFICATIONS 
For areas of the Company which have a significant impact on the community, because of the products and services they offer, the Group has obtained certifications to ensure that pro-cedures and conduct are adopted that meet the expectations of the relevant stakeholders. The following certifications were obtained for the main activities:•
 customer care and quality of products and services offered: UNI EN ISO 9001:2008 standard; 
•
 environmental protection: UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 standard;
• energy management based on national legislation: ISO 50001 standard;
• health and safety at work: BS OHSAS 18001:2007 standard;
• protection of human capital by companies and their supplier
s: SA 8000 standard;
• data security: ISO 27001:2005 standard;
• Information T
echnology services: ISO/IEC 20000-1:2005 standard;
• quality of call centre services: EN 15838:2010 standard;
• software and IT solution production processes: CMMI-DEV (Capability Maturity Model Integration - De
velopment) certifications.
Detailed information about the certifications achieved by the various departments/compa-nies of the Group is available in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.TYPE OF CUSTOMER CARE CUSTOMER
Overall satisfaction
2013 2012
187 CONSUMER FIXED TELEPHONY 8.48 8.46
119 CONSUMER MOBILE TELEPHONY 8.72 8.69
191 BUSINESS FIXED TELEPHONY 8.18 8.10
191 BUSINESS MOBILE TELEPHONY 8.13 8.22
Average satisfaction measured on a scale of 1-10, where 1 means “not at all satisfied” and 10 means “completely satisfied”. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 41
 CUSTOMERS | 
1.6 DIGITAL INCLUSION
The spread of information and communication technology creates opportunities for pro-
gress. Telecom Italia is aware of the need to manage this development in the best possi-ble way, helping to coordinate the actions of all the players in the broadband ecosystem, particularly in order to avoid exposing the community to technological and geographical divides. 
Geographical Digital Inclusion
In order to deal with the digital divide that has arisen in the so-called marginal areas of Italy, which would otherwise remain excluded from the mainstream plans of telecommuni-cation operators, owing to the low profitability of investments, between 2005 and 2013, Telecom Italia implemented a programme of extraordinary investments allowing ADSL cov-erage to be provided for approximately 4,000 new municipalities that account for over 12% of the population (over 6 million people).
As of December 2013, Telecom Italia activated around 9,300 exchanges, over twice the 
4,500 broadband enabled exchanges existing at the end of 2005. Alongside its plan to extend coverage, Telecom Italia has launched an additional plan to expand the active net-work where necessary to guarantee full usability of the service by customers and the de-velopment of digital inclusion. 
The following table shows the percentages of coverage as of December 2013.
ADLS Coverage(*) 98.40
UMTS and HSDPA coverage(**) 87.50
LTE coverage(**) 49.00
In order to promote digital inclusion and cover the remaining geographical areas of “market 
failure”, Telecom Italia will need to engage in joint “public-private” initiatives.
Two types of action have been taken so far, both fully in line with European competition 
rules:•
 the fir
st is a “central” approach that involves Infratel Italia S.p.A. (Infrastructure and 
Telecommunication for Italy)(6) as the public entity building passive broadband (fibre op-
tic cable), organic and integrated infrastructure throughout the country, with the aim of increase the digital inclusion in lower income areas of the country;
•
 the second is a “local” approach whereby regions promote projects aimed at increasing the digital inclusion,
 e.g. through forms of financing centred on public tenders using the 
so-called claw-back model, which provides for contributions to be paid to offset the lack of return on investments. 
For further information, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.*
The percentage refers to fixed telephone lines. 
**
The percentage refers to the residential population. Coverage values are subject to change based on ISTAT and urbanisations updates.
6
The company was set up on the 
initiative of the Communication De-partment of the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE) and Invitalia, the national inward investment and busi-ness development agency, and is the entity implementing the Broadband Programme.42 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| CUSTOMERS
Socio-cultural Digital Inclusion
In a world in which technology facilitates contact between people, Telecom Italia is making 
a contribution to breaking down the socio-cultural barriers that restrict the opportunity to take part in the information society, allowing people to enjoy its benefits. The innovative services aimed at promoting the digitisation of important areas of activity (e.g. healthcare) include those listed in the following paragraph.However, for information regarding the initiatives implemented by Telecom Italia for the social inclusion of customers with specific needs (hearing impaired, disabled, elderly, chil-dren, etc,) see § The Community and the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com 
website.
1.7 INNOVATIVE SERVICES 
Smart Services
In the context of public sector services, in accordance with the Italian Digital Agenda or ADI (Agenda Digitale Italiana) and European Directives, in 2013 Telecom Italia consolidated and streamlined its offer of Smart Services, a range of services for energy efficiency and digital services in urban areas, which it has combined with its Urban Security and Digital School initiatives offering new services dedicated to security, the environment, mobility and schools, providing a comprehensive response to the needs of cities and surrounding ar-eas. The aim is to promote the “smart city” model to improve quality of life by developing innovative digital services to ferry municipalities towards a Smart Community model (as described in the Digital Agenda) that enables new forms of cooperation between citizens and public authorities. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 43
 CUSTOMERS | 
For further information regarding Smart Services, see the sustainability section of the 
telecomitalia.com website.
Innovative e-health services
Telecom Italia is actively involved, either alone or in partnership with external partners, in devising and developing healthcare services at national, regional and local level. Designed to improve the Italian health service and the quality and effectiveness of healthcare, the services allow doctors, nurses and patients to carry out many activities remotely. 
The main electronic healthcare service applications available or being developed include:
•
 value products and services for general practice,
 aimed at enabling new primary care 
models and proactive medical services (e.g. screening campaigns managed by general practitioners);
•
 legal archiving of digital diagnostic images on the network,
 ensuring the authenticity and 
integrity of documents;
• management of healthcare, administrative,
 logistical processes and a patient’s health-
care information throughout the period of hospitalisation;
• the management 
and coordination of operational facilities dedicated to emergencies 
(118) and continuity of assistance;
• healthcare monitoring (Nuvola IT Home Doctor and Fisio@Home).
All 
the solutions comply with the data privacy and transaction security requirements of 
healthcare processes.
*
Interactive Multimedia Board.Smart Town Smart Building Nuvola IT Urban Security Nuvola IT Digital School
Integrated management of lo-
cal infrastructure networks. Enabled services:•
 planning of electricity con-sumption and maintenance;
•
 video surveillance; 
• digital communication with citizens and users in gen-eral (e.g
. tourists);
• Wi-Fi hot spots (broadband access).Smar
 t management and auto-
mation of buildings. Enabled services:•
 monitoring and reduction of consumption (electricity,
 wa-
ter, etc.), mainly for Central Government Bodies;
•
 video surveillance;
• digital communication;
• extension of the IT network (LAN) of buildings b
y using 
the electricity network via a device that connects to the power socket.Management of participated security and urban territory control. Enabled services:•
 computerised manage-ment of the penalty issuing process for traffic and other violations for local public administration;
•
 participated management of urban issues,
 with report-
ing of safety-related issues, antisocial activities and urban decay;
•
 real time monitoring of the urban and natural environ-ment of cities (humidity
, 
temperature, noise pollu-tion, C0
2, gaseous pollut-
ants, etc.);
• monitoring of available public par
king spaces.Integrated digital manage-ment of teaching and school administration. Enabled services:•
 broadband and mobile con-nectivity;
•
 teaching cloud (services and solutions,
 storage for 
multimedia content);
• digital learning tools (dis-tance lear
ning, collaborative 
and shared learning with education platforms, social learning);
•
 computerization of class-rooms (IMB)
(*), notebooks e 
tablets); 
• school-family interaction systems;
•
 digitisation of administrative services.44 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| CUSTOMERS
Digital healthcare
The availability of information (data and documents) is an enabling factor in modern health-
care, the primary objectives of which are to improve appropriateness, support the re-en-gineering of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care processes, and empower patients. Telecom Italia is playing an active part in developing services by introducing innovations in various areas of ICT technology that can improve and increase the efficiency of the health-care system. The following are significant examples of these solutions: •
 Big&Open Data,
 which allow large amounts of diverse medical or pharmacological data 
from open and distributed sources to be analysed;
• Clouds which allow distributed services to be delivered,
 making the solutions more scal-
able and economical;
• secure digital identity on Health mobiles, which allow access to Public Administration digital ser
vices to be enabled simply and securely (e.g. by means of a strong Secure 
SIM authentication).
For further examples of the e-health services (e.g. preventing food-related disorders in school and geolocating people affected by certain medical conditions) see the sustainabil-ity section of the telecomitalia.com website. This allows patients suffering from chronic illnesses, or in post-hospital care, to monitor their physiological parameters (body weight, blood pressure, heart rate, blood oxygen levels, glycaemia, lung capacity, electrocardiogram, etc.) directly from their own homes or in properly equipped facilities (medical centres, medical practices etc.). The system consists of a technological platform and software configured on the patient’s mobile phone (or alternatively a PC or tablet) and on the healthcare personnel’s PC. Based on the plans established by the doctor, patients receive reminders on their mobile phones regarding the measurements to be taken, they take these measurements using portable electro-medical devices equipped with a Bluetooth interface and, using their mobile phone they send the measurement automatically to the online platform. The benefits of the service are that it improves the patient’s quality of life while optimising costs for the healthcare organisation. In order to enhance the functionality of the service and increase Telecom Italia’s presence in the social care solutions sector, experimental activities are under way in various areas, such as:•
 the introduction of new de
vices intended to increase 
the number of diseases that can be monitored (e.g. monitoring bed sores through superficial photo-graphs of the skin);
•
 the use of new Inter
net-connected TVs to improve the 
usability of healthcare services using various ways of displaying measures and accessing services;
•
 prevention and w
ellness services aimed at providing 
solutions for healthy people to help them maintain, if not improve, their health, particularly in unconven-tional environments such as schools or workplaces;
•
 services to suppor
t mobility in patients with severe 
limitations who lose their way very easily and might find themselves in dangerous places, using tracking solutions and mechanisms for family members or Service Centres to provide assistance.Nuvola IT Home Doctor EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 45
 CUSTOMERS | 
1.8 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION IN E-SECURITY
Telecom Italia is involved in research and innovation regarding the security of information 
and networks. Activities carried out in 2013 included the following:•
 analysis and definition of security models for standardising future embedded SIMs (eSIMs)
(7);
• expansion of 
malware detection and analysis methods and tools(8) for fixed and mobile 
networks; 
• development of techniques for analysing the risk le
vel of apps for smart phones and 
tablets;
• design and implementation of tools and approaches for security investigations in
volving 
visual data analysis (Security Visual Analytics); 
• provision of tools for monitoring and analysing the w
eb and other freely accessible 
sources for information searches relevant to ICT security (Open Source Intelligence);
• definition, within the ETSI (European T
elecommunications Standards Institute) - ISG (In-
dustry Specification Groups) work group, of a comprehensive framework of security indi-cators to be used to measure performance and benchmark security operations; 
•
 continuation of international activities as par
t of initiatives funded by the European Un-
ion: IST NEMESYS (Information Society Technologies, enhanced NEtwork security for seamless service provisioning in the smart Mobile EcoSYStem) project and CIP (Com-petitiveness and Innovation framework Programme) Advanced Cyber Defence Center project;
•
 expansion of the over
sight and guidance activity regarding standards and forums in the 
context of the ETSI, GSMA Security Group, 3GPP (The 3rd Generation Partnership Pro-ject), ETIS (The Global IT Association for Telecommunications), ENISA (European Net-work and Information Security Agency) and CSA (Cloud Security Alliance);
•
 start of cooperation with EIT (European institute of Inno
vation and Technology), ICT Labs 
and the Action Line Guide to Privacy, Security & Trust.7
Case studies reported in the architec-
ture specifications and requirements include:•
 ov
er-the-air supply of one or more 
operator credentials on a SIM card;
• ov
er-the-air enabling/disabling of 
operator credentials held on a SIM card, allowing the active operator to be changed;
•
 ov
er-the-air deletion of an op-
erator’s credentials held on a SIM card.
8
Software created for the sole purpose of compromising the security of a computer or IT system. The term is a combination of the words malicious and software.46 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| CUSTOMERS
1.9 CHILD PROTECTION
Telecom Italia Group companies have undertaken numerous initiatives to protect children 
from content that may harm their psychological and physical development (for example, content that is violent, racist, offensive to religious sentiment, pornographic, etc.). 
Among these, precise guidelines have been adopted for classifying and checking distribut-
ed content. These cover both the content offered directly by Group companies and content owned by third parties offering their own services on space purchased within Telecom Ita-lia’s portals. These guidelines are regularly updated to take account of new codes, stand-ards and platforms. In Italy, in accordance with current regulations and self-regulatory codes signed by the Group, selective publication and filtering systems and procedures have been implemented to prevent children from accessing adult content on all the Group’s service platforms (IPTV , cubovision by decoder, web, tablet/smart phone apps, smart TV , Xbox, WAP services). Spe-cifically:•
 IPTV: access is only per
mitted to subscribers and the subscription can only be taken 
out by adults. The default setting does not allow adult content to be viewed and can only be changed after the PIN supplied to the adult subscriber has been entered. On demand adult content can only be accessed between 11.00 p.m. and 7.00 a.m.;
•
 cubovision
: adult content can only be accessed using a decoder. This pay-per-view con-
tent can only be viewed after entering the parental control PIN and purchase PIN. The parental control functions are governed by legal provisions and mentioned in the state-ment delivered to customers after they sign up to the service;
•
 WAP ser
vices: content from Telecom Italia and third party services is always moder-
ated in advance by Telecom Italia, in order to verify compliance with the classification guidelines, and delivered by a centralised platform. The PIN for accessing adult content is supplied by text message, at the customer’s request, after the person to whom the number is allocated is confirmed as being an adult.
For services delivered by IP connection, the “Alice Total Security” software is available, which includes antivirus and anti-spyware ser-vices, parental control, firewall, advanced download protection, an-ti-phishing, SPAM protection, wireless PC protection. 
For the purpose of combating online child pornography and computer crime, from an organi-sational point of view, Telecom Italia has identified, within its Security department (Risk Prevention & IT Security Governance) , the role of “Key contact for the Postal Police”. This person manages relations, and the flow of information, with the Postal Police (CNCPO - National Centre for the Fight against Online Child Pornography, CNAIPIC - National Centre against Digital Crime for the Protection of Critical Infrastructure etc.) and the competent authorities, and has the task of coordinating, within the Telecom Italia Group, the process of abuse management, in accordance with the relevant legislative framework. Furthermore, the Telecom Italia Group has adopted an organisational model in accordance with Legis-lative Decree 231/2001, which defines the tools required to oversee and anticipate of-fences, particularly the dissemination of child pornography, as well as to ensure the organ-isational/disciplinary management of computer crimes. For this purpose, Telecom Italia has fielded resources, technologies, processes and tools to prevent and combat “abuse”, meaning any activity committed in violation of the rules of conduct and legislation that gov-erns the use of network services, digital systems or means of communication in general. In this respect, information initiatives have been implemented, aimed at children, parents MAXIMIZING THE POSITIVE ASPECTS 
OF THE WEB AND MINIMIZING RISKS ARE 
ONE OF THE GROUP’S PRIORITIES EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 47
 CUSTOMERS | 
and teachers, on the risks connected with the new technologies and navigation on the In-
ternet (chat lines, instant messaging, forums, communities etc.). These initiatives have involved a number of important public and private stakeholders selected above all on the basis of their activities and commitment to safeguarding the rights of children (including, for example, the Postal and Communication Police, Save the Children, Adiconsum, GSMA, ITU etc.). 
The Group has also implemented appropriate filtering and abuse prevention systems for 
services delivered in Brazil. In particular, WAP services with adult content require user au-thentication while the delivery of adult videos on IP platforms, which is only available in on demand mode, requires a PIN to be entered. 
Telecom Italia’s commitment to disseminating the right cultural approach to the subject 
and preventing offences being committed translates into many initiatives, details of which can be found in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
1.10 CONCILIATION PROCEDURES
The conciliation procedure between Telecom Italia and the consumer associations who signed the framework agreement for the out-of-court settlement of telephone disputes, was the first example of joint conciliation in Italy. Introduced on a trial basis in 1991 by SIP , it was implemented throughout the country in 1993. In 1995 it was recognised by the Eu-ropean Union as a “pilot project for consumer access to justice”. The model is still used today but has been adapted over the years to fulfil new requirements, computerised and made easier to use, while maintaining the basic values that made it such an excellent tool, contributing to improving the transparency of the system, customer relations and a number of the Company’s operational processes. Twenty consumer associations have signed up to the conciliation agreement to date.
In 2009, in compliance with the voluntary undertakings given and approved by the Italian 
Communications Authority in December 2008, Telecom Italia also started managing con-ciliation requests submitted by customers at the offices of Co.Re.Com. and the Chambers of Commerce, thus providing a “single point of contact” and replicating the organisational model successfully applied for joint conciliations. This system allows customers who do not wish to approach a consumer association to use an alternative method for resolving their dispute through a streamlined and out-of-court procedure.Than handling of conciliations takes customer requirements into account and, regardless of the selected procedure, allows their relationship with the company to be improved. 
The “single point of contact” model has so far allowed the undertakings given the AG-
COM to be fulfilled and the expected qualitative and numerical results to the reached. The Co.Re.Com. channel is in fact becoming increasingly popular compared to other channels. The number of requests for joint conciliation discussed in 2013 was similar to the previ-ous year: 6,095 compared to 5,962 the previous year (the number of requests settled was 95.9%; in 2012 it was 95.3%). The number of requests discussed at Co.Re.Com. and Chamber of Commerce offices de-creased by 12% compared to the previous year (15,817 in 2013 and 17,977 in 2012) and the conciliation percentage remained constant (84.9% in 2013, 85.1% in 2012). THE ONE STOP SHOP AIMED TO SOLVE 
DISPUTES HAS PROVED TO BE AN EFFECTIVE TOOL, WELL APPRECIATED BY CUSTOMERS48 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| CUSTOMERS
Telecom Italia supported the conciliation activity by means of:
• seminars and joint training initiatives in
volving dedicated personnel from Telecom Italia, 
AGCOM, Co.Re.Com. and consumer associations;
• debates, conferences,
 interviews and other promotional activities involving senior man-
agement in order to disseminate the correct cultural approach to the subject. 
For information on the conciliation procedures used in Brazil, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
1.11 SAFEGUARDING PRIVACY AND PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
In order to ensure that personal data is protected in the performance of business activi -
ties, Telecom Italia has applied an organisational model, since 2003, which includes a Privacy Function supervising correct application of the relevant regulations throughout the Group (according to Legislative Decree 193/03, known as the “Privacy Code”). In this con -
text, when it establishes or acquires new companies, the Parent Company also provides the support required to identify and carry out the formalities required.The adoption of legal measures and the instructions of the Privacy Guarantor for personal data protection is assured by constantly updating the Group regulations and policies. The “System of rules for the application of privacy regulations in the Telecom Italia Group” is particularly significant in this respect. It establishes the provisions and operating instruc -
tions needed to carry out the relevant formalities.The framework of the company’s personal data processing provisions was enhanced in 2013 with a policy on compliance requirements for mobile apps and the platforms that operate them, in compliance with the instructions recently given by the Italian data pro -
tection authority and by European data protection authorities regarding protection of the large amounts of personal data currently managed by apps.Furthermore, during 2013, Telecom Italian continued to take the steps required to imple -
ment provisions in its internal processes to deal with any violation of personal data secu -
rity relating to electronic communication services (so-called “data breaches”). In particu -
lar, especially in view of the guidelines adopted by the Italian data protection authority in April 2013, a specific internal procedure was issued and widely disseminated among all the company’s functions which describes the activities to be undertaken and the related responsibilities should events defined as data breaches occur.For the purpose of ensuring the dissemination and correct application of internal regula -
tions, constant training is provided which resulted in 13 meetings being held in 2013 in -
volving the managers and representatives of central and local functions. These operational meetings were intended to provide the organisations involved with the tools needed to rec -
oncile the pursuit of business objectives with respect for laws and regulations. Staff from the functions assigned to fulfilling employee personal data processing requirements and from the Business Department (Sales and Marketing) were trained in how to contact cus -
tomers and promote products and services. Furthermore, newly recruited employees at -
tended specific meetings centred on the most significant aspects of the legislation on elec -
tronic communications and others focused on managing telephone and electronic traffic data management as part of the periodic training seminars held to train conciliators, which are attended by representatives of Telecom Italia and consumer protection associations.The effective application of the regulations is monitored through a control system based on regular self-assessment procedures by those responsible for handling the data, and on sample checks carried out by the relevant central departments, based on established procedures and methodologies. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 49
 CUSTOMERS | 
With regard to innovative projects and the development of new services, 2013 witnessed 
the approval, by the Italian data protection authority, of the procedures established by Telecom Italia to protect the personal data of its customers in the supply of interactive TV (Cubovision) services, which increasingly reflect the interests and choices of consumers. Furthermore, the data protection authority approved the digital signature with biometric authentication project developed by the Group’s IT Telecom company to allow an impor -
tant client in the banking sector to handle its customers’ transactions in paperless mode, ensuring greater efficiency and reducing environmental impact.With regard to privacy protection relating to new technologies, Telecom Italia is also in -
volved in initiatives launched in this respect by the European Commission to promote in the EU the development of cloud computing services that fulfil the requirements of EU law. In particular, Telecom Italia is actively involved in international work groups assigned by the European Commission to developing standards, model contracts and a reference code of conduct for the suppliers of these services.
For information regarding privacy safeguards and personal data protection in Brazil, see 
the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com  website.2. SUPPLIERS
2.1 STRATEGY
Within the Telecom Italia Group, the procurement process is aimed at the acquisition of 
products and services under the best market conditions, at the same time guaranteeing the prerequisites of quality, safety and social and environmental respect. The procurement process is based on a competitive comparison of the technical/economic offerings of sup-pliers who are selected on the basis of well-founded company procedures at Group level and bearing the hallmark of ethical dealings.The Group is committed to guaranteeing the quality of the procurement process and its continual improvement, in the light, too, of sustainable procurement, by obtaining the re-spective certification of quality.
2.2 RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS
The relevant stakeholders are the suppliers and sub-suppliers from which the Group ac-quires goods and/or services.Ensuring that products and services 
are purchased according to the best economic conditions while complying with quality, safety and52 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| SUPPLIERS
2.3 GENERAL MATTERS
The selection, assessment and control of the Telecom Italia Group’s suppliers, for high 
risk procurement markets, involves a pre-contractual qualification stage in which the eco-nomic/financial and technical/organisational characteristics are assessed. Verification of these characteristics leads to inclusion in the Register of Suppliers.The Group requires every supplier to make a commitment, on behalf of the company in question and any authorised sub-contractors, collaborators and employees, to observe the principles of ethics and conduct contained in the Group’s Code of Ethics.While the supply is taking place, registered companies which have received purchase or-ders normally undergo incoming quality control checks (a requirement for the acceptance and use of the purchased goods) and monitoring of the vendor rating (systematic assess-ment of the supply).The purchasing departments that operate reporting directly to the Business Support Offic-er focus on specific sectors, so as to provide accurate responses to the requirements of in-ternal customers and stakeholders. These expectations are constantly monitored through surveys of both internal customers and suppliers in order to verify the quality of the ser-vices delivered (see § Involvement initiatives).
2.4 SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES
The main initiatives implemented in 2013 are listed below.
The implementation of the new process that defines the activities aimed at improving the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) of the supply chain continued with a more comprehensive system of elements used to assess the sustainability of suppliers dur-ing the qualification stages, incoming quality and vendor rating.The most significant aspects of the process include:
 ›the classification of suppliers based on the potential risks associated with their sus
-
tainability performance, carried out using a specific method that considers the social-environmental and business continuity aspects associated with the procurement mar-kets in which they operate. For this reason, the markets have been classified based on parameters such as the geographical areas of reference and the risks associated with them, the potential impact on the environment and on the company of the suppli-ers’ activities and of the products/services supplied throughout their entire life cycle, and the impact on the reputation of Telecom Italia as a customer;
 ›the creation of a matrix that, b
y relating the spending to the specific purchase market 
with the risk index calculated on the basis of the parameters described, has allowed purchase markets to be subdivided into four categories, identifying the most critical ones in terms of sustainability and economic impact. Suppliers belonging to the most at risk categories will undergo CSR audits carried out by staff from the company or specialised third party companies. These audits will be repeated periodically to moni-tor the implementation of corrective actions and, if the results are positive, in order to verify that the standard of performance found is being maintained;
 ›the preparation of a self-assessment questionnaire to be submitted during the quali-fication of ne
w suppliers belonging to the highest risk purchase categories, in terms 
of sustainability and, periodically, to previously qualified suppliers. Regularly updated based on the results and evolution of the qualification process, the questionnaire was developed according to the main requirements of the relevant responsible corporate management standards relating to respect for ethical values and to safeguarding the environment (including SA 8000, Global Compact and ISO 14001) and to the best  EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 53
 SUPPLIERS | 
industry practices. Previously sent to over 100 significant suppliers identified by the 
above methods in 2011 and 2012, the questionnaire was implemented during 2013 in the application that handles the supplier qualification process and will be extended in 2014 to significant suppliers operating in markets where sustainability is consid-ered to be at risk.
•
 In October 2013, the ISO 9001:2008 cer
tificate of conformity of the “Quality Manage-
ment System” was confirmed for all the Procurement Departments under the responsi-bility of the Business Support Officer, with specific recognition for the initiatives taken in the field of sustainability. This initiative has led to the mapping of 26 department processes with the identification of 140 performance indicators that permit the monitor-ing and improvement of the administration of services supplied to internal clients and suppliers.
•
 Application continued of the green procurement policy defined in 2009, which contains guidelines for establishing the en
vironmental requirements of products/services pur-
chased. The policy covers all stages of the product life: design, production, use and end of life. Published on the “Vendors Hub” supplier portal of Telecom Italia and in the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website, the document helps to orient purchasing policies towards low environmental impact products and services. 
•
 With a view to ensuring the greater in
volvement of suppliers, some of the questions in 
the annual satisfaction survey (see § Involvement initiatives) relate to the green pro-
curement policy and to supplier adherence to the principles set out within it.
2.5 SUSTAINABILITY CHECKS
Activities intended to verify the CSR performance of common suppliers and sub-suppliers continued in the framework of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding signed at the end of 2009 by Telecom Italia S.p.A., France Telecom S.A. (now Orange) and Deutsche Telekom AG. In 2011, Belgacom SA, KPN B.V ., Swisscom Ltd. and Vodafone Group Services Limited signed up to the memorandum, fol-lowed by Telenor ASA and Teliasonera AB in 2012 and Verizon in 2013.The purposes of the Joint Audit Cooperation are:•
 to verify the sustainability of the most important supplier
s/sub-
suppliers that are common to the members of the JAC, with pro-duction plants located in geographical areas with a significant degree of socio-environmental risk. The checks are carried out by means of audits con-ducted by third parties using a specific method developed by the JAC members them-selves, who share the results of the verifications;
•
 to contribute to the increased sustainability of suppliers/sub-supplier
s involved by de-
vising and implementing corrective actions and ongoing improvement programmes, thus establishing long-lasting and mutually beneficial cooperation with them in terms of ef-ficiency, productivity and risk reduction in the supply chain.
Between 2010 and 2013, thanks to the gradual increase in the number of members of JAC, 112 audits were carried out – including 38 in 2013 - in production plants (suppliers and sub-suppliers) located in Asia, Central and South America and Eastern Europe. The checks were carried out through international specialised companies selected by competi-tive tender and related to a total of around 400,000 workers. The suppliers included in the audit campaign belonged to the user devices and equipment, network equipment and IT equipment production sectors.For all the non-conformities encountered, specific corrective action plans were drawn up THROUGH THE JOINT AUDIT COOPERATION 
(JAC) INITIATIVE WE PROMOTE SUSTAINBILITY WITHIN THE SUPPLY CHAIN54 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| SUPPLIERS
that established resolution procedures and timetables amongst others. The implementa-
tion of these plans is monitored on a constant basis by the JAC members.In total, the work allowed 41% of orders to be verified in the main procurement markets considered to present the greatest socio-environmental risk (see § Sustainability initia-
tives).
In January 2013, the second “JAC CSR Forum” was held in Shanghai (China), attended 
by around 150 guests representing TLC operators, suppliers, organizations active in CSR and NGOs.The topic of the Forum, the aims of which include growth and the greater involvement of suppliers in issues regarding sustainability, was: “Progress, perspectives and next steps”. The Forum attendees were presented with evidence of the results achieved and involved in the discussion of the challenges that lie ahead with a view to improving sustainability in the sector.
Given the results achieved, the initiative has attracted the interest of other telecommuni-
cation operators. The members of the JAC are currently assessing further applications for membership received.
2.6 INVOLVEMENT INITIATIVES
Use of the suppliers’ portal (Vendors Hub), launched at the end of 2011 to improve commu-nication and optimise operational processes by applying social networking systems to the business context, is now well established. The portal now includes 1,600 active vendors on the application platform.The portal allows suppliers to access a private area to view important data and events con-nected to their relationship with Telecom Italia and manage all their own details, thus im-proving the smooth operation and transparency of the relationship. The Vendors Hub also includes a public area containing information for potential suppliers.
Documents are exchanged electronically (e.g. offers, purchase orders, contracts, qualifica-
tion documentation, surveys), thus reducing the environmental impact resulting from the use of paper and from transporting and storing them. For the seventh consecutive year, the Group’s main suppliers have been involved in the survey on satisfaction with the Purchasing department and, more generally, with Telecom Italia. The online questionnaire, consisting of 27 questions, remained active for 2 weeks. The analysis involved 1,323 active suppliers in the Vendors Hub, with a participation rate of 48.3%, higher than the one recorded in previous editions and around 6% higher than the one achieved in 2012. The overall assessment of the supply relationship with the Telecom Italia Group achieved a score of 75/100, which is the same as it was in 2012. The positive satis-faction rating achieved in previous surveys was therefore confirmed.The two e-communities set up in previous years for suppliers in the civil infrastructure and network operations sectors, aimed at improving dialogue, mainly regarding social and envi-ronmental sustainability, were replaced by the corresponding Collaboration Areas available on the Vendors Hub portal. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 55
 SUPPLIERS | 
2.7 2013 RESULTS AND 2014 COMMITMENTS
Subject 2013 commitments Status 2014 commitments
ISO 9001 certifications,
ISO 14001Maintaining the Purchasing department’s ISO 9001 certifications and the ISO 14001 certification for Infrastructure Purchasing and Facility Management, obtaining the extensions provided for.Achieved as regards maintaining the ISO 9001 certification.Maintaining ISO 9001 certifications in the Purchasing area.
ISO 50001 certification Obtaining the ISO 50001 
certification for the Energy Purchasing & Management function.Certification achieved in April 2013.Maintaining the ISO 50001 certification for the Energy Purchasing & Management department.
e-community project Maintenance of active 
e-communities.Achieved by migrating the e-communities to the Collaboration Areas available in the Vendors Hub portal.
Green Procurement Continued implementation of 
the supply chain sustainability verification and improvement process.Achieved Continued implementation of the supply chain sustainability verification and improvement process.
Controls on suppliers Application of the self-
assessment questionnaire for new suppliers (see § Sustainability initiatives).In progress Consolidation of the process of applying the sustainability questionnaire to new suppliers.
Continuation of audit activities in the production plants of suppliers located abroad in the context of the JAC (see § Sustainability checks).Achieved Continuation of audit activities in the production plants of suppliers located abroad in the context of the JAC.
3. THE ENVIRONMENT
Protecting the environment, improving energy efficiency and offering services that reduce 
emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants are the main intervention policies adopted by the Telecom Italia Group to promote sustainable development in its areas of influence. The specific actions taken are therefore aimed at reducing its environmental impacts and offering technological solutions aimed at individuals, businesses and Public Administration for the creation of a more inclusive and viable digital society (see § Climate 
change). The main indicators used to measure the Telecom Italia Group’s environmental perfor-mance in 2013 performed as follows:
 
INDICATOR TREND
ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION  SUBSTANTIALLY UNCHANGED
CO2 EMISSIONS  UP SLIGHTLY
WATER CONSUMPTION  DOWN
ECO-EFFICIENCY  UP
The contribution made by 
Information and Communication
to safeguarding the planet for us 
and future generations58 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE ENVIRONMENT
3.1 STRATEGY
The environmental strategy of the Group’s companies is founded on the following principles:
• optimising the use of energy sources and other natural resources;
• constantly seeking to improve en
vironmental performance by reducing negative impacts 
and increasing positive ones; 
• adopting procurement policies that take en
vironmental issues into account; 
• disseminating a culture that promotes a correct approach to en
vironmental issues.
In order to ensure the effective and sustainable management of operational processes which have particular environmental impacts, Telecom Italia has equipped itself with an Environmental Management System (EMS) which is ISO14001 certified. In some depar-ments, the EMS has been integrated with the Safety Management System based on the OHSAS 18001 standard, both having achieved the respective certification. For further details on this subject go to the telecomitalia.com website.
3.2 RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS 
The environment stakeholder consists of future generations and their right to live in a world not compromised by the negative effects of development by previous generations. The interests of this collective person are identified in the demands made by:•
 national and international en
vironmental organisations;
• national and supranational institutions;
• the community in general, par
ticularly in the areas where Telecom Italia operates; 
• industry associations and non-profit organisations dealing with issues relating to the en
vironment. These include the following in particular: CSR Europe, Academy of Busi-
ness in Society (ABIS), European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association (ETNO), European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), Global e-Sustainabili-ty Initiative (GeSI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), European Round Table of Industrial-ists (ERT), International Telecommunication Union (ITU).
Telecom Italia is attentive to the requirements of stakeholders interested in protecting the environment and has developed various channels of communication with them, including AvoiComunicare, the Festival of Science, the Venice Future Centre and the Group Internet/Intranet pages dealing with environmental issues, in addition to formal and informal meet-ings with these stakeholders. Telecom Italia promotes and in some cases coordinates na-tional and international environmental projects. 
3.3 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
The information regarding environmental performance is drawn from management data, some of which is estimated. The data shown below relate to energy use (heating, trans-port and electricity), eco-efficiency, atmospheric emissions, use of water, paper and waste production. In order to allow a more accurate comparison to be drawn, for 2011 and 2012, the information reported for the Media segment refers to the same consolidation scope as in 2013, following the disposals that took place. In any case, the overall size, and therefore the impact of the Media segment on the Group’s performance, have fallen significantly, as can be seen from the percentage change in the value of the main indicators in 2013 com-pared to previous years. In some cases, the value of the indicators considered has fallen to zero, which explains the -100% change compared to the previous year(s). EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 59
 THE ENVIRONMENT | 
HEATING SYSTEMS
Energy for heating: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
ENERGY GENERATED BY HEATING OIL MJ 108,152,289 99.77% 0% 0% 0.23%
ENERGY GENERATED BY NATURAL GAS MJ 686,974,478 93.97% 0% 0% 6.03%
TOTAL ENERGY FOR HEATING MJ 795,126,767 94.76% 0% 0% 5.24%
HEATING SYSTEMS
Total energy for heating: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation 
compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
MJ 795,126,767 94.76% 0% 0% 5.24%
2013 V . 2012 23.42% 27.97% 0% (100)% (23.40)%
2013 V . 2011 19.97% 24.45% 0% (100)% (24.43)%
The data in the table show that, compared to 2012 and 2011, particularly for the Domestic 
BU, use of energy for heating has increased, essentially because of the review of the way energy use is assessed following receipt of a large adjusted bill for natural gas used in previous years, which was only provided by the utility company during the course of 2013. The way in which the energy use of large buildings is measured has been made much more efficient by the distributor. In Brazil, thanks to the particular weather conditions all year round, there is no need for space heating.Energy
Energy consumption by Telecom Italia S.p.A. and the Group is presented according to the guidelines proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative regarding direct consumption for heating, self-generation of electricity and transport (Scope 1) and indirect consumption for the purchase and use of electricity (Scope 2), according to the GreenHouse Gas Protocol
(9) 
definition.9
The GHG Protocol (Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol Initiative), established in 1998 by the World Resources Insti-tute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, devel-ops calculation methods and studies aimed at promoting innovation and assuming responsibility for climate change.60 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE ENVIRONMENT
TRANSPORT(10)
Energy for transport: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
ENERGY FROM 
UNLEADED PETROLMJ 62,003,861 18.65% 81.25% 0% 0.10%
ENERGY FROM DIESELFUELMJ 655,486,802 96.88% 0.13% 0.90% 2.09%
ENERGY FROM LPG MJ 5,728,466 100% 0% 0% 0%
ENERGY FROM CNG MJ 511,341 100% 0% 0% 0%
TOTAL ENERGY FOR TRANSPORT
(*)MJ 723,730,470 90.21% 7.08% 0.82% 1.89%
*
Represents conversion into Megajoules of the consumption of unleaded petrol, diesel, Liquefied Petroleum Gas (expressed in litres) and Compressed Natural Gas (ex-
pressed in kg).10
The data shown in the tables and graphs relating to transport refer to all the Group’s vehicles (industrial, commercial, used by senior manag-ers/middle managers/sales people), both owned and hired. The vehicles, consumption and mileage of vehicles owned or in use by the sales force of Tim Brasil have been included only where usage is significant and continuous.
TRANSPORT
Total energy for transport: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation 
compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
MJ 723,730,470 90.21% 7.08% 0.82% 1.89%
2013 V . 2012 (2.92)% (3.67)% 8.40% (21.83)% 6.11%
2013 V . 2011 (6.45)% (8.19)% 20.94% (4.60)% (1.73)%
TRANSPORT
Total number of vehicles: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation 
compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
no. 20,017 93.86% 4.97% 0.22% 0.95%
2013 V . 2012 (0.94)% (1.42)% 17.49% (55.00)% (5.91)%
2013 V . 2011 (2.79)% (3.67)% 26.14% (50.55)% (9.05)%
TRANSPORT
Total distance travelled: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation 
compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
km 312,370,570 92.64% 5.10% 0.78% 1.48%
2013 V . 2012 (2.94)% (3.38)% 10.47% (31.60)% 6.74%
2013 V . 2011 (5.96)% (7.05)% 16.49% (1.53)% (1.74)%
 EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 61
 THE ENVIRONMENT | 
The reduction in energy use for transport is due to the shorter distances travelled by vehi-
cles in Italy, although distances travelled have increased significantly in Brazil. 
Consumption figures for electricity used to operate the telecommunication and civil/indus-
trial technological plants are shown below.
ELECTRICITY PROCURED AND PRODUCED
Electricity consumption: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
ELECTRICITY FROM 
MIXED SOURCESkWh 2,363,172,937 81.91% 17.11% 0.81% 0.17%
ELECTRICITY FROM RENEWABLE SOURCESkWh 39,122,154 89.18% 0% 0% 10.82%
TOTAL ELECTRICITY kWh 2,402,295,091 82.03% 16.83% 0.79% 0.35%
ELECTRICITY PROCURED AND PRODUCED
Total electricity consumption: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation 
compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
kWh 2,402,295,091 82.03% 16.83% 0.79% 0.35%
2013 V . 2012 0.10% (1.11)% 10.78% (24.49)% (51.29)%
2013 V . 2011 0.03% (2.07)% 16.37% (20.97)% (53.43)%
Group wide energy consumption in 2013 remained substantially unchanged compared to 
both the previous years, despite the increased volume of traffic of the data handled: in Italy there was a further decrease compared to previous years, while in Brazil there was a sig-nificant increase. Generally speaking, the increase in consumption would be much higher, given the development of the telecommunication network and services, if actions were not taken to seek energy efficiency opportunities. The reduction target set in 2012 for Telecom Italia S.p.A. was achieved.
In accordance with the energy policy adopted, the Group continued to take action in the 
following areas this year: •
 seeking energy sa
ving opportunities, i.e. recovering energy without structural changes 
but through organic action - e.g. temperature alignment and redefinition of Group poli-cies, improving the efficiency of existing cogeneration plants and energy stations, re-calibration of set-points in multi-system sites, cogeneration refrigeration systems, free cooling, disconnection of obsolete equipment;
•
 technological upgrading and distributed generation work,
 with investments aimed at 
achieving “less use at a lower cost”, including free cooling technologies, prioritising air 62 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE ENVIRONMENT
THE COMMITMENT TO IMPROVING  
ENERGY EFFICIENCY CONTINUESconditioning, lighting of offices and industrial sites, as well as trigeneration plants (in-
cluding micro plants), geothermal and other renewable sources; 
• work on organization and energ
y engagement to identify the “en-
abling factors” for the purpose of achieving energy savings, de-fining roles aimed at guiding the implementation of initiatives to disseminate the results achieved at all levels and promoting an energy-saving culture in the company.
Previously launched energy saving initiatives continued and new initiatives were undertak-en in 2013 in Italy, including:•
 technological modernisation and streamlining of exchange and Radio Base Station (RBS) equipment,
 involving 650 power stations (2.8% of the total), 591 dedicated air 
conditioning systems (1.4% of the total) and 1,818 batteries (4.5% of the total);
• as part of the wor
k done on technological systems serving buildings and telecommuni-
cation systems:
 ›the programme 
launched in 2011 to replace traditional (neon and dichroic) lamps with 
innovative and energy efficient LED(11) lighting systems in common areas was complet-
ed in 2013. In total, over 350,000 bulbs have been replaced and a saving of over 9 GWh/year has been estimated for every 100,000 replacements made. The benefits of the initiative include the longer life of LED lamps, fewer scheduled maintenance ac-tivities and less invasiveness of these activities because lamp replacement doesn’t require replacement of the light fixtures, as well as lower environmental impact result-ing from the smaller number of fluorescent bulbs being used;
 ›the replacement of lighting fixtures (ceiling lights) has been launched in offices. These new lighting fixtures will 
be fitted with presence detectors, and will be dimmable ac-
cording to the amount of lighting from the outside. The programme provides for the replacement of 30,000 lighting fixtures by 2015, using energy efficient LED lamps;
 ›by 2016,
 Telecom Italia plans to reduce energy use for lighting by 50%, down from 
the figure of over 80 GWh used in 2011. This objective goes beyond the expectations expressed by the Digital Agenda for Europe, which provides for a reduction of 20% in the amount of electricity used for lighting in 2020, through the adoption of solid state light sources and intelligent management systems;
•
 as part of the plan to supply pow
er to telephone boxes remotely from telephone ex-
changes launched in October 2011, a telephone box removal plan was completed in early 2013, resulting in the removal of a total of 27,500 telephone boxes since the be-ginning of the programme. This has resulted in a total energy saving of 10 GWh/year. The remotely powered telephone boxes are lit with energy efficient LED lights controlled by presence sensors;
•
 an energy audit programme w
as launched in the exchanges and Data Processing Cen-
tres of the Group’s 100 most energy-intensive buildings. Some of the efficiency meas-ures identified following the initial energy audits were implemented during 2013 (around 24 measures). Furthermore, significant work is being carried out at the Bari Data Pro-cessing Centre resulting in an estimated annual saving of over 3 GWh. In particular, work was launched to replace cooling systems with new more efficient ones and to re-move/reassign existing machines;
•
 the following projects were launched as par
t of the work done to increase self-genera-
tion:
 ›the transfor
mation of 4 of the 5 micro-cogeneration plants (Asti, Verona, Salerno, Tre-
viso) into trigeneration systems was completed. Adaptation work planned at the Lan-ciano site is awaiting completion. Once fully operational, these plants will efficiently generate around 5.5 GWh/year;11
LED stands for Light Emitting Diode, a 
solid state device that replaces con-ventional light sources, like standard incandescent filament or neon lamps, ensuring high luminous efficiency and reliability as well as low energy consumption. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 63
 THE ENVIRONMENT | 
 ›7 new traditional trigeneration plants (bigger than 0.5 MWe) plus 2 plug&play (240 
kW
e) plants were created. Testing of all the systems launched during the course of 
the year will be completed within the first half of 2014. Once fully operational, these plants will be able to generate around 70 GWh/year. A further 6 sites were also iden-tified for the creation of plug&play plants, the construction of which was launched at the end of 2013 and will be completed by 2014;
 ›the performance of 
existing trigeneration plants was improved further by increasing 
the hours of operation in order to bring them into line with the best performer (around 8,000 hours/year). The work done to improve the energy efficiency of trigeneration plants in 2013 was specifically focused on cooling systems, given the specific local energy requirements of the plants serving Data Processing Centres, which use signifi-cant amounts of energy and require processing plants and systems to be cooled as well as the neighbouring office premises to be heated. The efficient self-generation of electricity, heat and cooling is achieved by using trigeneration plants sized according to local requirements;
 ›installation of photovoltaic panels in 106 smaller sites identified among the fixed net
-
work exchanges and Radio Base Stations. This project, which was launched at the end of 2012, was completed in the first half of 2013. Around 1 GWh/year is expected to be saved;
 ›construction of an experimental solar cooling system in a medium-sized fixed networ
k 
site for the production of chilled water for air conditioning by absorption of solar ther-mal energy. The project was completed in 2013 and will be able to achieve an annual saving of 0.25 GWh;
•
 the following projects were launched as par
t of energy management work:
 ›real time energy usage monitoring b
y submetering across 2,700 sites which account for 
53% of Telecom Italia usage (equivalent to 0.5% of electricity use in Italy). This activity provides for the installation of energy metering devices to monitor the electricity used by the core elements of the technology infrastructure, in order to identify and implement efficiency recovery measures;
 ›monitoring the 
application of temperature alignment policies in Radio Base Stations, in 
the main fixed network exchanges and in offices. The network of sensors installed and controlled by the Telecom Italia Smart Center allows the operating temperatures and environmental conditions of technological systems and offices to be detected promptly. Constant monitoring and checking of compliance with technical policies and regulations allows abnormal situations or faults to be corrected promptly, thus ensuring optimum environmental and operating conditions, with obvious energy benefits;
•
 efficiency projects 
continued in the context of Information Technology, including the fol-
lowing initiatives:
 › replacement of energy-intensive machines with ne
w lower energy servers;
 › storage consolidation;
 ›measures aimed at increasing storage efficiency (data rationalisation, storage vir
tu-
alisation); 
 › installation of additional thin client devices. All the initiatives identified and launched will allow around 9 GWh/year to be sa
ved when 
fully operational;
• as part of the Printing on Demand (P
oD) activities, in cooperation with the IT function 
and in order to continue improving efficiency and environmental responsibility practices, during the first half of 2013 printer settings were updated to print on both sides of the sheet, resulting in a further reduction in the use of paper (-20 million A4 sheets per year).64 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE ENVIRONMENT
There are also plans to take further measures in 2014:
• improving the efficiency of pow
er stations: the technology chosen for power supply equip-
ment allows high levels of efficiency to be achieved in accordance with industry best practice. Monitoring of electrical performance allows corrective action to be taken to optimise the operation of power stations, minimising the energy wasted by equipment;
•
 improving P
ower Usage Effectiveness (PUE) in fixed network exchanges: the data gath-
ered by monitoring systems allow energy performance indicators to be developed, which are used to subdivide fixed network exchanges into efficiency clusters that can be used to prioritise energy efficiency recovery measures;
•
 developing local operational control systems for compressor and free cooling compo
-
nents in exchanges: this initiative provides for programmable local monitoring systems to be adopted, where they don’t already exist, to maximise the use of cooling systems that benefit from heat exchange with the outside environment as a priority over the use of air conditioners, thus minimising the use of energy;
•
 launching a plan to apply free cooling technology to Shelter and Room Radio Base Sta
-
tions;
• launching a project to monitor the energy used b
y thermal heating plants.
A further project being launched, which will involve everyone in the company, is the Energy Engagement project, which includes a public awareness campaign aimed at encouraging “energy efficient behaviour”, disseminating the right degree of attention towards energy saving and involving all the Group’s resources in reducing energy consumption. Furthermore, in September 2013, Energy Management services based on the Telecom Ita-lia Smart Center Know How platforms were made available for sale to external customers. During 2013, Telecom Italia was awarded Energy Efficiency Certificates (Titoli di Efficienza Energetica - TEE) for nine projects relating to previous years. Established by ministerial decree of 20 July 2004, TEEs, also known as “white certificates” are issued by GSE
(12) 
to reward entities carrying out innovative projects resulting in a significant saving of elec-tricity or fuel. One “white certificate” corresponds to 1 TOE (Ton of Oil Equivalent) saved. White certificates have an economic value because they are purchased by entities (such as electricity generation companies) whose activities create CO
2 emissions to offset them 
against the “credits” purchased from entities who voluntarily achieve energy efficiencies. This makes it easier for the entities that are required to comply to achieve the reduction targets imposed by the Authority, and therefore avoid penalties. The nine projects for which Telecom Italia has been recognised amount to over 23,000 TOE saved per year and to an incremental income of over 16 million euros. A further 18 projects are being assessed that correspond to a saving of over 55,000 TOE per year. In 2013, Telecom Italia achieved the ISO 50001 certification. This certification represents the best international energy management practice based on national regulations. ISO 50001 supports organisations and companies of all kinds in implementing the processes required to analyse energy consumption (including electricity, gas and water), establish en-ergy performance objectives and indicators to reduce consumption and identify opportuni-ties to improve energy efficiency and reduce waste.Also with regard to certifications, the ISO 14064 certification process is expected to begin soon. The main purpose of the ISO 14064 standards is to bring credibility and guarantee to greenhouse gas (GHG) reporting and monitoring processes relating to emission declara-tions by organization and plans to reduce them.Also in 2013, Telecom Italia renewed an important agreement with the Ministry of the Envi-ronment associated with the Carbon Footprint Project. The carbon footprint measures the impact of human activity on the planet, considering both direct and indirection emissions of CO
2 into the atmosphere. The agreement is a further sign of the marriage between in-12
Gestore dei Servizi Energetici (GSE 
S.p.A.) is the state-owned company which promotes and supports re-newable energy sources in Italy - www.gse.it EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 65
 THE ENVIRONMENT | 
novation and environmental sustainability that is a distinctive feature of the Italian produc-
tion system. The Ministry of the Environment has in fact established a task force to assess the environmental footprint and therefore quantify greenhouse gas emissions and work towards reducing them. The Ministry aims to promote effective products and practices to manage and reduce greenhouse gas emissions generated throughout the production chain through voluntary agreements with companies and organizations, including the agreement with Telecom Italia. The specific purpose of the agreement is to work on two areas:•
 reducing our customers’ emissions b
y using new technologies and services which allow 
them to work anywhere (smart working);
• assessing and minimising the environmental footprint of a typical mixed-use T
elecom 
Italia building. An analysis has therefore been launched of a site in Bologna, which will be the first building to have an environmental impact of “almost zero”, confirmed fur-thermore by an ISO 50001 certification.
Eco-efficiency indicator
Telecom Italia measures its own energy efficiency by using an indicator that establishes a relationship between the service offered to the customer in terms of bits transmitted and the company’s impact on the environment represented by joules of energy consumed. The factors taken into consideration are the amounts of data and voice traffic of the fixed/mo-bile networks and energy consumption for industrial purposes (transmission and climate control in exchanges), other purposes (electricity for office use, air conditioning and heat-ing in the offices) and vehicles. The following table and chart show the level of the eco-ef-ficiency indicator over the past three years.
*
In the 2012 Sustainability Report, the figure related to Telecom Italia S.p.A.. As of the 2013 Report, the indicator relates to the Domestic BU. These two coincide because 
the indicator takes into account the overall traffic generated by Group companies operating nationally and the corresponding energy consumption.ECO-EFFICIENCY
Eco-efficiency indicator: current value and % 
change compared to the previous two years
Domestic BU(*)2013
vs 20122013
vs 2011
bit/joule 2,828 12.04% 28.31%
66 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE ENVIRONMENT
In 2013, the indicator value again exceeded expectations. An objective of 3,100 bit/joule 
has been set for 2014, which corresponds to an increase of +9.6% compared to 2013 (see 2014 and Multiannual Targets in the Appendix).
Atmospheric emissions
Greenhouse gas emissions by Telecom Italia and the Group consist almost exclusively of carbon dioxide and are due to the use of fossil fuels for heating, transport and generation of electricity, to the purchase of electricity produced by power companies and to staff travel (for business trips and commuting between home and work). In addition to these, disper-sals of hydrochlorofluorocarbons and hydrofluorocarbons (HCFC and HFC) from air condi-tioning plants are also considered and converted into kg of CO
2 equivalent. 
For atmospheric emissions as well, use is made of the Global Reporting Initiative - GRI Version 3 - guidelines, which refer to the definitions of the GHG Protocol, distinguishing be-tween direct emissions (Scope 1: use of fossil fuels for transport, heating, power genera-tion), indirect emissions (Scope 2: purchase of electricity for industrial and civil use) and other indirect emissions (Scope 3). Unless otherwise stated, the atmospheric emission figures given in this Report have been calculated based on the updated coefficients made available by the GHG Protocol
(13).
The following table shows the total CO2 emissions of the Telecom Italia Group. 13
Emissions relating to the consumption 
of electricity purchased in the Italian market have been calculated by using the latest coefficient (2009) calcu-lated by the GHG Protocol - which considers the national energy mix - equal to 386 grams of CO
2/kWh. 
For Brazil, the average coefficients for 2011, 2012 and 2013 have been used, as calculated and published by the Ministério da Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação (Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation), of ap-proximately 29.2, 65.3 and 96 (the latter remains to be confirmed) grams respectively of CO
2/kWh. This trend 
displays an increasing tendency by Brazil to use fossil fuels.ECO-EFFICIENCY INDICATOR
Yearsbit/joule
2,5003,000
1,500
05001,0002,000
20112,2042,524
20122,828
2013
 EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 67
 THE ENVIRONMENT | 
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
Direct emissions of CO2 under Scope 1 GRI: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
CO2 EMISSIONS FROM 
TRANSPORTkg 53,905,899 90.55% 6.72% 0.82% 1.91%
CO2 EMISSIONS FROM 
HEATINGkg 45,378,959 95.01% 0% 0% 4.99%
EMISSIONS OF CO2 
EQUIVALENTS FOR 
HCFC/HFC(*) DISPERSALSkg 11,849,200 100% 0% 0% 0%
CO2 EMISSIONS FROM 
ELECTRICITY GENERATION BY COGENERATIONkg 43,354,080 100% 0% 0% 0%
CO
2 EMISSIONS FROM 
ELECTRICITY GENERATION USING DIESELkg 2,869,311 80.57% 16.16% 3.22% 0.05%
TOTAL DIRECT EMISSIONS OF CO
2 - UNDER SCOPE 
1 GRIkg 157,357,449 94.97% 2.60% 0.34% 2.09%
*
Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFC) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFC), in terms of equivalent CO2 emissions are determined by reference to specific Global Warming Potential (GWP) parameters for the two gases: the 
index is based on a relative scale that compares the gas considered with an equal mass of carbon dioxide with a GWP of 1. The GWP of HCFC used was 1,780 and that of HFC was 1,300.
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
Total direct emissions of CO2 under Scope 1 GRI: Group breakdown by Business Unit 
(%) and % variation compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
kg 157,357,449 94.97% 2.60% 0.34% 2.09%
2013 V . 2012 8.66% 9.58% 7.68% (25.87)% (16.13)%
2013 V . 2011 (2.61)% (2.37)% 7.63% (20.73)% (18.51)%
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
Indirect emissions of CO2 under Scope 2 GRI: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
CO2 EMISSIONS FROM 
PURCHASES OF ELEC-TRICITY GENERATED BY MIXED SOURCESkg 763,175,702 93.75% 5.08% 0.96% 0.21%
TOTAL INDIRECT EMIS-SIONS OF CO
2 - UNDER 
SCOPE 2 GRIkg 763,175,702 93.75% 5.08% 0.96% 0.21%68 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE ENVIRONMENT
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
Total indirect emissions of CO2 under Scope 2 GRI: Group breakdown by Business 
Unit (%) and % variation compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
kg 763,175,702 93.75% 5.08% 0.96% 0.21%
2013 V . 2012 0.51% (1.14)% 62.89% (24.53)% (22.80)%
2013 V . 2011 1.41% (2.10)% 283.32% (21.02)% (32.78)%
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
Other indirect emissions of CO2 - under Scope 3 GRI: Group breakdown 
by Business Unit (%)
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
CO2 EMISSIONS FROM 
WORK-HOME COMMUTING(*)kg 64,031,153 93.37% 5.32% 0.15% 1.16%
CO2 EMISSIONS FROM AIR 
TRAVEL(**) kg 15,060,647 68.64% 31.36% 0% 0%
TOTAL OTHER INDIRECT 
EMISSIONS OF CO2 - 
UNDER SCOPE 3 GRIkg 79,091,800 88.66% 10.28% 0.12 % 0.94%
*
In determining the impact of home-work commuting, reference is made to statistical data produced on the company’s personnel.
**
Emissions due to air travel were calculated using the coefficients proposed by the GHG Protocol based on the number of journeys actually made, subdivided by the duration of each individual journey (short 
or long).
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
Total other indirect emissions of CO2 under Scope 3 GRI: Group breakdown 
by Business Unit (%) and % variation compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
kg 79,091,800 88.66% 10.28% 0.12 % 0.94%
2013 V . 2012 (0.42)% 0.44% (5.26)% (3.45)% (19.67)%
2013 V . 2011 (4.48)% (4.17)% 4.92% (84.64)% (40.21)%
ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS
Total CO2 emissions: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation 
compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
kg 999,624,951 93.54% 5.10% 0.80% 0.56%
2013 V . 2012 1.64% 0.55% 40.93% (24.42)% (18.58)%
2013 V . 2011 0.27% (2.30)% 135.39% (24.83)% (26.41)% EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 69
 THE ENVIRONMENT | 
The Group’s total CO2 emissions grew by an insignificant amount compared to the previous 
year. The following are a number of considerations on how individual items contributed to 
the overall result:•
 reduction of emissions due to lower consumption b
y vehicles;
• increase in CO2 equivalent emissions relating to HCFC and HFC gases used in air con-
ditioning plants;
• increase in emissions attributable to cogeneration, resulting from the 
company’s deci-
sion to invest more in this technology, with positive financial and environmental bene-fits. The increase is in any case offset by the lower amount of power purchased from the grid, which overall has led to a positive balance being achieved in terms of emissions; 
•
 slight increase in emissions from diesel electricity generators in situations where the electricity distribution networ
k is unavailable; 
• slight increase in emissions resulting from electricity consumption;
• increase in emissions from business air travel b
y employees, which would have been 
greater if less recourse had been made to audio and video-conferencing.
WATER CONSUMPTION
Water consumption: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
CONSUMPTION OF 
WATER DRAWN FROM ARTESIAN WELLSm
3367,910 0% 0% 0% 100%
CONSUMPTION OF WATER DRAWN FROMSUPPLY COMPANIESm
34,509,603 95.14% 4.65% 0.01% 0.20%
CONSUMPTION OF WATER DRAWN FROMOTHER SOURCESm
320,276 0% 100% 0% 0%
TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION
(*)m34,897,789 87.60% 4.69% 0.01% 7.70%
*
The significant impact of the Olivetti BU is due to drawings from artesian wells by the industrial component.
WATER CONSUMPTION
Total water consumption: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation 
compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
m34,897,789 87.60% 4.69% 0.01% 7.70%
2013 V . 2012 (14.13)% (5.41)% 6.87% (97.21)% (59.80)%
2013 V . 2011 (12.40)% (4.40)% 28.35% (97.28)% (58.53)%
Water consumption, particularly by the Olivetti BU, fell significantly due to a more accurate 
assessment of consumption based on invoicing data recorded. 70 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE ENVIRONMENT
Paper
PAPER FOR OFFICE USE
Paper purchased: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
NON-RECYCLED PAPER 
PURCHASEDkg 2,994 49.77% 50.23% 0% 0%
RECYCLED PAPER PURCHASEDkg 2,089 0% 100% 0% 0%
FSC CERTIFIED PAPER PURCHASEDkg 356,640 83.08% 13.63% 0.14% 3.15%
TOTAL PAPER PURCHASEDkg 361,723 82.32% 14.43% 0.14% 3.11%
PAPER FOR OFFICE USE
Total paper purchased: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation 
compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
kg 361,723 82.32% 14.43% 0.14% 3.11%
2013 V . 2012 (21.96)% (21.76)% (17.22)% (94.82)% 12.50%
2013 V . 2011 (33.11)% (33.13)% (31.09)% (94.75)% 12.50%
Purchases of paper for office and commercial use (telephone bills) continue to be directed 
at product types that meet the highest environmental standards based on the responsible management of forests according to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC, see fsc.org) re-quirements. The reduction in paper consumption for office use shown in the table is in line with a his-torical trend resulting from work done to raise awareness about the responsible use of paper in the workplace and rationalisation of energy use through the “printing on demand” project, which provides for the use of shared high performance printers and settings that save energy and consumables. Activities continued with the aim of achieving overall reduc-tions in the use of paper for business purposes, including the promotion among customers of electronic invoices and statements. During the course of 2013, the first billboard campaign was launched using FSC paper (2,462 kg compared to the 36 tonnes of paper used for billboards in total). In 2014, this initiative will be extended to all Telecom Italia billboard advertisements, which are estimat-ed to amount to around 30 tonnes of paper in total. The collection of sorted waste in offices, organised in all the company’s office premises, allowed almost 20,000 tons of paper to be sent for recycling during 2013, achieving the objective set in 2012. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 71
 THE ENVIRONMENT | 
Waste
The data shown in the table refer to the quantity of waste consigned(14) and recorded by 
law(15). 
Waste data varies over time according to the quantities and types delivered to the compa-
nies contracted to treat it. The most important item of data for Telecom Italia’s purposes is the ratio between waste produced and consigned for recycling/recovery, which has grown to a significant level. Ministerial Decree No. 65 of March 8
th, 2010 (published in the Gazzetta Ufficiale, Italy’s 14
“Waste consigned” refers to the waste 
delivered to carriers for recycling or reclamation or disposal. 
15
Slight variations compared to the situation on December 31 may occur until the following March 30, because the source of the data is the records of waste loaded and unloaded, which are consolidated once the actual weight at destination has been veri-fied. The information is supplied to the producer of the waste within three months of consignment, which is the reason for the potential variations in the data.
WASTE CONSIGNED
Waste consigned: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
HAZARDOUS WASTE kg 5,180,570 93.41% 6.06% 0% 0.53%
NON-HAZARDOUS 
WASTEkg11,310,588 93.91% 3.50% 0.14% 2.45%
TOTAL WASTE CONSIGNED
(*)kg16,491,158 93.75% 4.31% 0.10% 1.84%
*
The data does not include the Domestic BU telephone poles because these are not disposed of as ordinary waste but under the framework agreement signed in 2003 
with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Production Activities and the production and recovery companies, subject to the favourable opinion of the conference of State-Regions-Autonomous Provinces. In 2013, Telecom Italia decommissioned 138,224 poles weighing a total of 11,057,851 kg.
WASTE CONSIGNED
Total waste consigned: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%) and % variation 
compared to the previous two years
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
kg 16,491,158 93.75% 4.31% 0.10% 1.84%
2013 V . 2012 (14.63)% (14.34)% 8.52% (86.45)% (38.35)%
2013 V . 2011 (17.85)% (16.44)% (23.23)% (86.04)% (42.56)%
WASTE CONSIGNED
Waste sent for recycling or recovery: Group breakdown by Business Unit (%)
Group Domestic Brazil Media Olivetti
WASTE SENT FOR RECY-
CLING OR RECOVERYkg 15,091,886 95.47% 2.93% 0% 1.60%
% WASTE SENT FOR RECYCLING OR RECOVERY91.52% 93.19% 62.34% 0% 79.39%72 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE ENVIRONMENT
Official Journal, on May 10th, 2010) implemented the collection of Waste Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment (WEEE) by all Telecom Italia sales channels as of June 18th, 2010, 
resulting in the company’s registration as a “distributor” in the national Register of envi-
ronmental managers. In 2013, Telecom Italia regenerated a large amount of its technical equipment (5,021 data transmission devices, 23,759 voice products, 15,510 ISDN devices and 49,582 public telephony devices) and commercial equipment (including 23,652 modems and other fixed line products and 105,847 mobile phone products). This activity has a dual purpose: con-tributing to a reduction in WEEE produced while at the same time generating a financial benefit resulting from the difference between the cost that would be incurred for the pur-chase of new equipment and the cost of regeneration. Telecom Italia has entered into contracts aimed at recovering end-of-life products and ma-terials, in order to reclaim components and raw materials. This allowed the landfill disposal of 791,385 products to be avoided and tangible financial benefits to be gained from their recovery.
Electromagnetic emissions
The actions of the Telecom Italia Group on the subject of electromagnetic emissions are essentially:•
 careful management of 
its equipment during its entire life cycle and in compliance with 
current regulations and internal standards of efficiency and safety;
• deployment of,
 and constant research into, the latest technological instruments for 
checks and controls; 
• systematic monitoring of the levels of electromagnetic emissions in installations,
 aimed 
at ensuring that legal limits are respected and high safety standards are maintained for workers and the general population. According to the checks carried out in Italy, the electromagnetic emissions generated are well within legal limits; 
•
 as part of the cer
tification of mobile phones sold on the market under the TIM brand, 
TILab performs tests on all technologically innovative products to check the SAR (Spe-cific Absorption Rate) declared by suppliers. This parameter estimates the quantity of electromagnetic energy per unit of body mass absorbed by the human body in the event of exposure to the electromagnetic field generated by mobile handsets. Telecom Italia certifies and sells through its sales network only mobile handsets with a SAR value lower than the limit set by European legislation. In determining this conformity Telecom Italia complies with the instructions given in the ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) guidelines and subsequent declarations of conform-ity
(16). This qualification, which is carried out during the pre-marketing stage, when Tel-
ecom Italia does not often have the SAR value declared by the supplier, makes the test more valuable than a simple quality control check;
•
 joint activities taking place with a number of ARPAs (regional en
vironmental protection 
agencies) to assess the electromagnetic fields generated by RBSs, considering the ac-tual power transmitted based on traffic and power control mechanisms, in accordance with changes to the Prime Ministerial Decree of 8/7/2003 contained in the Decree Law on Growth 179/2012. Similar attention is paid to the emissions from mobile handsets using the frequency bands operated by Telecom Italia. 16
Guidelines for Limiting Exposure 
to Time-Varying Electric, Magnetic, and Electromagnetic Fields (up to 300 GHz). Health Physics 74 (4): 494-522; 1998; Statement on the “Guidelines for limiting exposure to time-varying electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields (up to 300 GHz)”. Health Physics 97(3):257-259; 2009. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 73
 THE ENVIRONMENT | 
3.4 CLIMATE CHANGE
The Green Economy is recognised as the driving force for sustainable development and 
the eradication of poverty. The Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector can make a significant contribution to developing the economy, improving energy efficiency and combating climate change, as demonstrated by several studies and analyses of the ICT industry, recently confirmed by the SMARTer 2020
(17) Report published in December 2012 
by the Global e-Sustainability Initiative.The Group’s approach to the fight against climate change is based on three synergistic levels of action:•
 reducing its own direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases;
•
 limiting the emissions of other sectors and customer
s in general 
by supporting virtualisation and the provisions of services that promote new ways of working, learning, travelling and living;
•
 contributing to disseminating a culture based on a correct approach to en
vironmental 
issues inside and outside the company.
Reduction of emissions
The environmental impact of Telecom Italia in terms of CO2 emissions is determined, as 
shown in the preceding paragraphs, by direct emissions from the use of fossil fuels, indi-rect emissions through the procurement of electricity and other indirect emissions due for example to home-work commuting and air travel by staff. For details of current activities aimed at reducing emissions see the § Environmental per-formance/Energy and Environmental performance/Atmospheric emissions.
Telecom Italia as part of the solution
The ICT sector is required to play an important part in the fight against climate change by encouraging the replacement of physical products and traditional services with digital prod-ucts and processes (see § Customers/Innovative services) that can promote the virtual-ization of the company by reducing the need for people and goods to travel. In general:•
 audio/video conferencing services and tele
working reduce the 
need for people to travel. 
• on line invoicing and pa
yments, in addition to saving paper and 
therefore the energy required to produce and transport it, elimi-nate the need for transport to make payments;
•
 telemedicine services reduce the need for doctor
s to meet patients in person;
• infomobility systems, using infor
mation obtained from mobile handsets, allow the opti-
misation of traffic flows, reducing travel times and the emission of greenhouse gases;
• systems for the monitoring and analysis of consumption allow the optimisation of the energy efficiency of offices and d
wellings.
Information and Communication Technologies can influence the price, efficiency and rela-tive convenience of products and services, eventually affecting the demand for services and increasing the overall demand for energy. They can also accelerate the obsolescence of products and require the resulting technological waste to be managed. It is the respon-sibility of the ICT sector, and therefore also of Telecom Italia, to consider these effects, focusing on research and development to create products with a low environmental impact throughout their entire life cycle (see § Product responsibility). 17
The report entitled “GeSI SMARTer 
2020: The Role of ICT in Driving a Sustainable Future” is an update of the SMART2020 report published in 2008.
THE ICT SECTOR CAN HELP TACKLING 
CLIMATE CHANGE
TELECOM ITALIA AIMS AT DEVELOPING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES HAVING LOW ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT74 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE ENVIRONMENT
In 2013, Telecom Italia held over 1,000 audio conferences and around 5,260 video-con-
ferences between its offices in Rome and Milan, managing these centrally and prioritising video connections, which grew in relative terms compared to the previous year. Particularly as a result of the introduction of a specific automatic booking portal for audio and vid-eo conferencing services, employees independently held over 27,718 video conferences (+48% compared to 2012) and 72,729 audio conferences (+27% compared to 2012). The use of these communication systems is estimated to have allowed a significant amount of carbon dioxide (and other pollutants) associated with the use of means of transport
(18) 
to be avoided.
3.5 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
To improve the product stewardship profile at the company level, products/services mar-keted by Telecom Italia S.p.A. are also examined under the following criteria:•
 health and safety of consumers; 
• labelling of products and services;
• mark
eting communications; 
• respect for privacy;
• compliance with applicable regulations;
• environmental impact of the product.
Mar
keted products are subject to a technical test aimed at ensuring their conformity with 
European directives and national laws, in particular:•
 the EU regulations on the protection and safety of customers in using the equipment; 
• the RoHS 
regulation which prohibits the use of certain substances in electrical and elec-
tronic equipment;
• the WEEE regulation on the disposal of electrical and electronic products at the end of their life cycle;
•
 European regulations nos. 1275/2008 and 278/2009 which implement the EuP (En-erg
y-using Products) directive for terminals and their respective external power sup-
plies.
Telecom Italia Green
At the end of the 1990s, Telecom Italia launched a series of internal research and de-velopment activities to build terminals with a reduced environmental impact. In order to improve the environmental efficiency of products offered to private and business custom-ers alike, attention has to be paid to their energy aspects, optimising consumption while meeting the needs of the services delivered and applying “Design For Environment” rules that reduce their environmental impact, particularly during the production phase and the end-of-life management of equipment. Pursuing and expanding this logic, the Telecom Italia Green logo has been created to iden-tify both Telecom Italia’s “green” initiatives and projects and eco-friendly products. 
For products and initiatives that bear this logo, information is provided about the features 
and specific solutions adopted, as a result of which their eco-friendliness and/or environ-mental benefit can be demonstrated. In the case of products, this information appears in the environmental statement contained in the packaging, drawn up in accordance with the UNI EN ISO 14021 standard, as well as in the sustainability section of the telecomi-talia.com website, where information can also be found about the “eco-friendly” features of initiatives and projects.18
On average, around 10 people take 
part in each video conference and half of these would have travelled to take part in the meeting. It can be es-timated, solely for video conferences carried out between the management offices in Rome and Milan, that there has been an overall reduction in emissions of 1,200 tons of carbon dioxide. 
 EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 75
 THE ENVIRONMENT | 
The Green range includes a number of products developed with the assistance of suppli-
ers and dedicated to business and consumer customers alike. In the Home Networking field, the internal project to optimise the environmental aspects of digital home service developments continued with the creation of eco-efficient solu-tions for access gateways, network terminations, fixed and mobile terminals and wireless access points. •
 Distribution continues of the “Wi-Fi N Access Gate
ways” in the new “Telecom Italia 
Green” product range. Deployment is under way of the new high end “AG ADSL FIBRA” modem associated with NGAN
(19) offers, to which the same principles of energy and en-
vironmental optimization previously tested on the first product have been applied. Fur-thermore, the green range now includes the “Fritzbox! 7270” product made by AVM and used by Telecom Italia to support small businesses. In addition to performing well in terms of reducing consumption, this device is particularly eco-friendly, as detailed in the Telecom Italia Green pages of the telecomitalia.com portal. The products in the range are accompanied by an environmental declaration that demonstrates the improvements achieved in terms of energy efficiency and eco-design. For these “modem/access gateway” product categories, Telecom Italia has applied to the Italian electricity and gas regulator AEEG.
(20) 
The most recent environmental declarations issued relate to cordless and corded tel-ephone terminals (Sirio Maxi, e-Pure, Facile Mini, Sirio Classico). The declaration for the fourteenth product in the range (the Facile Maxi cordless phone) is nearing completion. The production of environmental declarations for the products in the Green range is made possible thanks to the close relationship with suppliers, and as regards the basic template for type III product environmental declarations, EPD System approved the proposal made by Telecom Italia and the Polytechnic of Turin regarding Product Category Rules (PCR) for home gateways, to be adopted as a guidelines for producing environmental labels based on LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) analysis data. The reference is the ISO 14025 “Environ-mental Declarations - Type II (EPDs)“ standard. Field testing is nearing completion on a “smart home” energy use monitoring service, centred on an application hosted by a prototype Access Gateway modem equipped with software modularity (OSGi
(21) technology). The testing is based on a technical solution de-
veloped by the Energy@Home association, led by TI, and is intended to demonstrate the amount of savings that could be made by adopting a system to monitor consumption, forc-ing the monitored devices to operate with low power consumption, avoiding overloads and encouraging good behaviour by end customers with a view to saving energy. 19
Next Generation Access Network
20
Autorità per l’Energia Elettri-
ca, il Gas e il Sistema Idrico – www.autorita.energia.it
21
Open System Gateway initiative – www.osgi.org4. THE COMMUNITY
4.1 STRATEGY
The Group companies intend to contribute to the prosperity and growth of communities by 
delivering efficient and technologically advanced services. Consistent with these objectives, and their responsibilities towards the various stakehold-ers, the Group companies view research and innovation as priorities for growth and suc-cess. As private entities requiring cost-effective management, Group companies take the social impact of telecommunication services into account in their decision-making activities, re-sponding to the needs of the community, including the weakest members of society. The Group looks favourably on and, where appropriate, supports social, cultural and edu-cational initiatives aimed at the advancement of the individual and the improvement of liv-ing conditions.The role of a major Company in the
of the countries in which it operates78 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE COMMUNITY
Macro areas of intervention Project identification Project implementation
The two main areas of intervention as 
regards investment in the community are the following:•
 voluntary activities consistent with the Group’
s core business, associated with 
the provision of ICT services(*);
• activities aimed at the general development of the community
, mainly 
including the activities of the Telecom Italia Foundation.Telecom Italia identifies the projects to be implemented by the following means:•
 Telecom Italia identifies the projects to be implemented b
y the following 
means:
• consultation with the stakeholder s 
and direct contact with civil society organisations;
•
 partner
ship projects with stakeholders 
and associations;
• benchmarking against the other European TLC operator
s;
• involvement in industr
y associations;
• sharing knowledge of industry-related issues with the other Group functions;
•
 external lobb
ying in response to social 
emergencies (e.g. earthquakes).Each project is implemented in 4 stages: •
 planning: which identifies the objectives to be achie
ved, the beneficiaries of the 
project, the timescales of the individual activities, the overall duration of the initiative, the methods used to monitor the project and the budget. 
•
 selection:
 - through public tenders,
 as in the case 
with many projects pursued by the Telecom Italia Foundation;
 - by direct decision of the Compan
y, 
following the stakeholder, consulta-tion process, consistent with the guidelines for voluntary contributions to the community
(**).
• management: normally administered through par
tnerships or framework 
agreements. Sometimes cash disbursements are made, leaving the management of the activity to the beneficiary organisation/association.
•
 control: takes place in different w
ays 
according to the specific features of the individual projects.
4.2 RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS
In the projects they implement with Communities, the Group companies interact with: 
• civil society: all citizens and people with special needs (young people, elder
ly people, 
disabled people, etc.), their representative associations and non-profit organisations in general;
•
 institutions: local authorities and central, national and supranational institutions;
• university and research institutions;
• traditional media and social media.
4.3 HOW THE CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY IS MEASURED
The contribution made to the community by the Telecom Italia Group, calculated according to the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) guidelines, amounted to 46.6 million euros in 2013 (36.4 million euros in 2012).The contribution has been calculated using management data partly based on estimates. *
In this chapter, only those products/services provided at no charge are reported, while those which, although they have a significant impact on thecommunity, are provided for payment, are included in the § Customer .
**
The guidelines for voluntary contributions to the community are available on the telecomitalia.com website, sustainability section, under codes and policies, environmental and social policies.The following table summarises the Group’s community investment strategy, which is also planned according to the inclusion and materiality principles of the AccountAbility 1000 standard: (see § Introduction/Reporting): EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 79
 THE COMMUNITY | 
Initiatives in the communityInvestments
in the communityCharity
21.523.31.8LBG diagram
46.6 million euros
% DISTRIBUTION OF THE TELECOM 
ITALIA GROUP’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITYMore than 100 major international companies subscribe to the LBG, which was founded in 
1994 and is the global goldstandard for the classification of voluntary contributions made by companies in favour of the community.In accordance with the LBG model, in order to measure and represent the Group’s commit-ment to the community, the contributions disbursed have been subdivided into three cat-egories (Charity, Investments in the community, Initiatives in the community), adopting the customary pyramid-shaped representation, which places initiatives of a charitable nature at the top and initiatives which in addition to being of benefit to the community are in the commercial interest of the Company at the bottom. For further information regarding the LBG model and its investment classification criteria on the 3 levels, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website and the lbg-online.it website. 
4.4 RESPONSES TO THE STAKEHOLDERS 
Initiatives consistent with the core business 
By way of example, here are some of the projects carried out in 2013 in response to the needs of the Community using the technologies that underlie the provision of services by Telecom Italia. 
Fund raising
Fund raising is of particular importance, especially in dealing with emergencies. For over ten years, Telecom Italia has been a key player in the solidarity chain associated with hu-manitarian, scientific or environmental projects, which it supports by allowing people to make a donation of 1 or 2 euros by sending a text message and of 2, 5 or 10 euros by calling a dedicated free number from a land line. The money raised are passed on in its entirety, without any deductions, either by the tax authorities, who, thanks to an awareness campaign mounted by TLC companies and non-profit organisations, have exempted such operations from the application of VAT , nor by the company for the disbursement of its costs. 111 fund raising events were organised in 2013 and a total of around 18 million euros were collected.
(22)22
The amount collected is not directly 
attributable to the initiatives men-tioned due to the time lag between invoicing and payment.
3.7%
46.2%
50.1%Charity
Initiatives
in the community
Investments
in the community80 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE COMMUNITY
Digital Inclusion
Telecom Italia has been developing and supporting media education projects for a long 
time, with the aim of raising the awareness of young people to make an informed use of the Internet and stimulate the interest of senior citizens in new digital technologies, with the aim of gradually developing understanding and sensitivity to the digital phenomenon as a whole. The main initiatives implemented in 2013 are listed below:•
 Navigare Sicuri is the project aimed at educating children,
 teenagers and their teachers 
to make an informed and responsible use of the Internet and digital media, developed in associated with the Italian Ministry of Education, the Movimento Bambino Foundation, Save The Children and Atlantyca. Important issues were tackled in the three-year period 2010-2013, including: grooming, cyberbullying, identity theft, sexting, internet addiction disorder, piracy, during meetings held in 40 cities in 20 regions, 252 primary and middle schools (76 in 2012-2013), with over 80,000 students trained using the promotional material (30,000 in 2012-2013). The project website has over 200,000 unique visitors, with 50,000 likers on Facebook and 20,000 followers on Twitter. The awards achieved include the memorandum of understanding with the Italian Ministry of Education, inclu-sion in the ITA-EU CSR plan and the endorsement as a best practice by FOSI (Family Online Safety Institute); 
•
 The Anche io ho qualcosa da dire (I have something to sa
y too) project was developed 
in 2013, involving over 30,000 students in self-organised meetings held in three cit-ies with experts on different aspects of online safety for children: education, medicine, paediatrics, psychology, social, legal and technical computing, which also received the attention the President of Italy, Giorgio Napolitano, in a message sent for the inaugural stage;
•
 Navigare Insieme is the project dedicated to ensuring the digital inclusion of the o
ver 
60s, following on from Telecom Italia’s previous digital education projects for the elder-ly: Internet Saloon and Telemouse. Training activities took place until May 2013, with 200 courses in 104 schools and 33 “digital workshops” in 16 cities, thanks to 3,000 students and volunteers from 7 associations, and online, thanks to the involvement of experts from the world of the Internet with a web-based e-learning path. Over 10,000 over 60s were trained, while the project’s website recorded around 100,000 unique visitors, with 28,000 likers on Facebook and 16,000 followers on Twitter.
Culture and Digital Technology
In 2009, Telecom Italia began to work with major Italian artistic and cultural organisations to develop projects aimed at bring excellent cultural content together with digital language, making the most of the interaction opportunities offered by the Internet. Telecom Italia assumed a role recognised by partners involved in digital dissemination initiatives in the fields of music (National Academy of Saint Cecilia, Music for Rome Foun-dation), opera (Fondazione Lirico Sinfonica Petruzzelli e Teatri di Bari), literature (Festival of Literature), science (Festival of Science, MUSE), classical art (Villa Borghese Museum), contemporary art (MAXXI, AMACI) and performance art (Romaeuropa Foundation), high-lighted in particular by the first Premio Cultura + Impresa awarded to the Company by the Cultura + Impresa non-profit committee dedicated to the best partnerships and sponsor-ships created in Italy in the field of culture.These initiatives also allow exclusive opportunities to be created for the Group’s employ-ees, increasing the sense of belonging thanks to initiatives such as dedicated visits (Villa Borghese, MAXXI, Romaeuropa Festival, Digital Life, Giornata del Contemporaneo) or at-tending dedicated concerts or events (Family Concert, Festival of Science).  EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 81
 THE COMMUNITY | 
The partnership with the National Academy of Saint Cecilia is part of the PappanoinWeb 
project designed to bring classical music to the web and which, in 2013, its third year, at-tracted over 50,000 users (150,000 over three years) to the 3 concerts conducted by Antonio Pappano and broadcast live on the telecomitalia.com website in streaming mode, plus 1 million users via Twitter. In 2013, the partnership with Fondazione Lirico Sinfonica Petruzzelli e Teatri di Bari imple-mented the OperainWeb project, broadcast live opera on the telecomitalia.com website, 
with over 12,000 users connected in streaming mode, and the OperainClasse project, an educational show designed for teenagers.The partnership with the 2013 Mantua Festival of Literature 2013 testifies to the Compa-ny’s commitment to disseminating contemporary cultural experiences, with over 30 open meetings featuring some leading contemporary and emerging Italian writers. The event was attended in person by over 200,000 people and 22,000 guests took part in 60 hours of programming promoted by Telecom Italia, broadcast live on the telecomitalia.com web -
site with around 20,000 users connected in streaming mode and 800,000 users reached via Twitter. The partnership with the Genoa Festival of Science promotes national and in-ternational scientific experiences thanks to a web platform which has been enriched with original content since 2010. The event was attended in person by over 200,000 people, with workshops and events promoted by Telecom Italia and broadcast live on the telecomi-talia.com website with around 20,000 users connected in streaming mode and 850,000 users reached via Twitter. 
The partnership with the Romaeuropa Foundation, which aims to promote performance 
art by combining new digital technologies, developed the Metamondi project in 2013 with 4 events selected from the Festival programme broadcast live in streaming mode to over 12,000 connected users, and the modern digital art exhibition Digital Life 2013 – Liquid Landscapes at MACRO Testaccio di Roma, with over 13,000 visitors. The partnership with MUSE of Trento developed the “Digital Way of Living” exhibition to make digital technology and the digital revolution more tangible. Through the ArteinWeb project, the partnership with the Villa Borghese Museum and Gallery allowed a new concept of artistic fusion to be developed in which universally recognised works of art are reinterpreted according to the principles of digital technology, particularly photography thanks to the “Candida Hofer” exhibition. The partnership between Telecom Italia and MAXXI implemented the MAXXIin-Web project aimed at promoting contemporary art by combining new digital technologies through dialogue with the main exponents of contemporary art and architecture, delivered in streaming mode to over 20,000 users and during internal exhibitions held in company offices. 
Initiatives for general community development
The Telecom Italia Group companies are particularly attentive to the needs of the Commu-nity in which they operate and implement wide-ranging initiatives and projects dedicated to their social and economic development.82 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE COMMUNITY
TOOLS • The Telecom Italia F oundation operates through invitations to tender and open 
calls, in response to which non-profit entities and associations are entitled to 
submit projects. The by-laws also allow the Foundation to provide direct funding for particular projects it considers to be consistent with its operating vision.
GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS 
OF ACTION•
 Italy is the main geographical area of activity,
 but in April 2013, the TIF 
implemented its first international project in Brazil (Italy-Brazil: educating new 
global citizens) in partnership with Oxfam Italia. 
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES • Anticipating and predicting the needs of the community.
• Acting as a discoverer/facilitator of ne
w development models that may set 
examples for the voluntary sector.
• Finding concrete solutions to unresolved problems and ne
w solutions to 
problems that have not been appropriately addressed, as well as promoting the dissemination of successful solutions.
PROJECT SELECTION 
AND MONITORING •
 Selection takes place b
y considering the social impact of projects, which must 
be measurable, sustainable and replicable, and giving priority to projects which, 
in keeping with Telecom Italia’s DNA, have a high technological content.
• The monitoring system is established according to the specific characteristics and objectives of each project. Monitoring is a requirement for all projects, whether selected b
y tender or directly. As well as being an eligibility 
requirement, it also provides an assessment parameter.The Telecom Italia Foundation (TIF) expresses the 
social commitment of Telecom Italia, from which it has inherited its founding ethical principals, its spirit of technological innovation, its attention to local issues and its strong sense of responsibility towards the community, which are part of the Group’s DNA.The values that have defined the identity of the TIF over time are:•
 creative intuition linked to the spirit of technological inno
vation; 
• local creative mastery; 
• focus on social issues, as a commitment to the com
-
munity.
Through replicable and measurable models based on the use of technologies, the mission is to promote and support the three areas in which it focuses its activities and resources:•
 in the social field, with educational and suppor
t ini-
tiatives dedicated to vulnerable or otherwise disad-vantaged people;
•
 in enhancing projects applied to 
education, training 
and scientific research;
• in protecting historic and ar
tistic heritage, develop-
ing ways of using and disseminating knowledge of the heritage itself.
It is a corporate foundation with a management fund tied to the profitability of the Telecom Italia Group, consisting of 0.5 per thousand of the consolidated EBITDA for the previous year. In 2013, the TIF received funding of 5.8 million euros from Telecom Italia.The Foundation’s activities take place according to the following criteria.The Telecom Italia Foundation EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 83
 THE COMMUNITY | 
In 2013, funding was disbursed for 43 projects, including 22 new ones. The main initia-
tives in 2013 are listed below.
Open Call on communication impairments
With the open call launched in February 2013, TIF decided to focus on language disorders, which account for over 70% of neuropsychiatric conditions in children and which the WHO says are a warning bell for mental health, considering that in 2/3 of cases they tend to develop into psychiatric disorders in adolescence and adulthood unless dealt with appro-priately. 205 projects were received and out of these 3 winners were selected: 
1. Volis Project
Hearing loss affects 70,000 people in Italy. The Volis project aims to develop Italian sign language (LIS) and verbal language comprehension tests with the help of lip reading and all the available language techniques that can be used with deaf or hearing children with com-munication or language impairments associated with developmental disorders, such as in-tellectual disabilities and autistic spectrum disorders. These tests will be implemented on an online platform accessible to all the professionals involved (communication assistants, educators, teachers, speech therapists, psychologists, child neuropsychiatrists), subject to registration and authentication. The cloud-based platform will record the answers given by the child being tested, producing a score that will be related to the child’s medical histo-ry in order to determine the level of understanding of sign language by the child and make any clinical treatment proposals. Furthermore, the protocol created will be made available in OpenAPI mode.
2. SI DO RE MI Project
Autism affects 1 in 150 children in Italy. There are over 6.2 million children currently be-tween the ages of 1 and 12 years old. The number of children interested by the project is therefore estimated to be around 42,000. The project provides for the development of a system that uses cloud computing to control sound and music generated by the gestures of children affected by autism. The acoustic feedback thus created is intended to empha-sise and stimulate interaction with the surrounding world. The data related to children interacting with the system is monitored remotely by specialists to analyse trends in the disorder.
3. Cinque Petali (Five Petals) Project
Cinque Petali, a project run by the Piacenza local health authority, is dedicated to children with language/learning disorders. It aims to strengthen the technological tools available to support rehabilitation and develop preventive action for children, with a view to reduc-ing the occurrence of forms of behaviour during development that can develop into psychi-atric disorders in adolescence and adulthood. The Piacenza local health authority intends to support all the 2,850 children in its care who are affected by serious communication impairment with a diagnosis of developmental disorders (1,476). The project intends to supply 100 iPads equipped with the main compensatory computer programs (which chil-dren will use at school, at home and in their leisure time) with individual and customised paths aimed at ensuring independent communication, integration and interaction for so-cialising with their peers, networking and constant monitoring of the child by the health-care system.84 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE COMMUNITY
Tenders launched by the Foundation 
Invisible assets, places and mastery of traditional crafts
July saw the end of a new tendering process in which the “invisible assets” of historic and artistic heritage are associated with the recovery and reassessment of ancient crafts. The tendering process aims to demonstrate that creative spirit is alive in Italy and makes the country unique. This spirit can be combined with the enabling technologies of the web and digital connections, which are a vital component of the tender, as they provide a driving force for Italian culture and economy as a whole, promoting the tendered project both in Italy and abroad. The tender process attracted great interest among non-profit organisations, municipalities and universities.Projects received: 478 - Towns interested: 272 - Crafts involved: 168 
Promoting the integration of foreign citizens
TIF launched a tender process for “Promoting the integration of foreign citizens by using technological platforms”. The purpose of this tender is to help towns with a resident popu-lation of over 50,000 inhabitants, where at least 9% of the population are foreign, to im-prove knowledge of the services available for foreign users, guiding users and operators and making it easier for them to use the available services by creating portals, communi-cation points in the main meeting places and specific free apps.Projects received: 25 out of 56 municipalities eligible (45%) - Regions involved out of the number eligible to take part (9 out of 11 = 81%).
Other significant projects launched in 2013
Italy-Brazil project: educating new global citizens projectWorking with Oxfam Italy, TIF implemented its first international project in Brazil. The pro-ject aims to create an Educational Social Network between 20 secondary school classed in Brazil (São Paulo area) and secondary schools in Italy, involving and training 20 teachers and over 500 students to form a learning community. The aim is to contribute to the fight against poverty and social exclusion, strengthening the quality of educational processes and improving dialogue and participation between the new citizens of the world through an educational exchange on issues of active citizenship, the protection of environmental resources and access to new technologies.
I speak Italian
TIF and the Italian Ministry of Education, Universities and Research are supporting the “Io parlo italiano” (I speak Italian) project run by 75 schools in eight Italian regions and aimed at promoting the integration of foreign students arriving in Italy as teenagers without speaking the language. The project provides a language laboratory crash course in Italian during school hours and language support outside school.
AgendaImpegno
For the second year running, TIF and Telecom Italia have been working with “Libera Asso-ciazione contro le Mafie”, an association founded by Father Luigi Ciotti, on a new project that aims to encourage, action, contributions and discussions on important issues ranging from respect for the Italian constitution to the right to work, from environmental protection to the fight against poverty, all through a dedicated space on the Internet.
Initiatives involving employees
TIF is also very careful to look within the Company with initiatives that promote the volun-teering spirit of its employees actively engaged in social work with non-profit organisations.  EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 85
 THE COMMUNITY | 
In 2013, TIF launched Fondazione Italiax10, an initiative involving the Group’s employees 
in presenting projects, in partnership with their favourite charities, in three areas: violated rights, care and support for dependent elderly people and combating poverty. A competi-tion held on the Company’s intranet resulted in 10 winning projects being selected, the best of which will be supported by TIF with a financial contribution. Projects received: 66, votes vast on the intranet by employees 10,000.
In 2013, TIF also launched a corporate volunteering initiative involving many employee 
“angels” from all over Italy who passionately and enthusiastically support TIF in its philan-thropic activities. The first activity in which Telecom Italia employees were asked to partici-pate was the assessment of projects received in response to the “Invisible assets, places and mastery of traditional crafts” call for tenders.
For further information regarding the strategy and projects of TIF go to the fondazionetele-
comitalia.it website.
The social investment strategy implemented by Tim Participações aims to promote the social inclusion of disadvantaged groups in Brazilian society, particularly children and teenagers, by running education programmes that support the corporate “without borders” concept even in the social sphere.In 2013, the TIM Institute was founded with the aim of defining strategies and providing resources for the dissemination of science and innovation to support the development of the community in Brazil, particularly by means of mobile technology.Four areas of activity were identified in which to develop projects: •
 education 
• application 
• work
• social inclusionTim Participações
TOOLS • Par tnerships with organisations, institutions and public and private entities.
GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS 
OF ACTION• The whole country
.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES • Implementation of educational projects for the social inclusion of young people 
and teenagers.
• Implementation of training projects to encourage daily use of the Internet and mobile phones as tools for social de
velopment and inclusion.
PROJECT SELECTION 
AND MONITORING • Projects are selected according to their relevance to the compan
y’s strategies 
and requirements. 
• Initiatives are monitored and a final evaluation is car
ried out on completion. A 
report is drawn up for each project that provides a detailed description of the 
initiative and the results achieved, also in quantitative terms. 86 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE COMMUNITY
Maths Club
The poor quality of maths teaching is a serious obstacle to people acquiring the specific skills needed for innovative and technological development in Brazil. In order to overcome this, a creative and participatory way of teaching maths conceived by Bob and Ellen Ka-plan at Harvard University has been set up called “Maths Club”. Aimed at children in el-ementary school between the ages of 7 and 9, the initiative involved about a thousand students in 2013. 50 selected public school teachers from across the country were trained by Bob and Ellen Kaplan themselves in how to replicate the Maths Club model in their classrooms.
São Paulo in your hands
One of the priorities for the municipality of São Paulo is to disseminate technologies that help citizens establish new relationships with the city. Working with the local Sé (Cathedral) authority, the TIM Institute set up a project that allows people to participate directly in pub-lic administration, allowing inefficiencies and urban maintenance problems to be reported by mobile phone. The system allows reports to be tracked (geographically and otherwise) and therefore actual maps to be created that public administration can use to monitor and plan maintenance work. 
For further information about the community support projects run by Tim Participações visit 
the tim.com.br website, Sustainability section, under Community.
4.5 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Research and development activities at Telecom Italia are carried out by the Information Technology, TILab and Innovation Functions, which oversee the analysis of new technolo-gies and the engineering of services offered to customers.Activities to enhance and generate competitive advantage for the Group are of particular importance and are pursued through strategic management of the relationship between re-search, Intellectual Property Right (IPR) and business, aimed at developing the Company’s assets in patents rights.12 new applications for patents were filed during 2013.
With a view to promoting an innovative system of relations between companies and univer-
sities, Telecom Italia has adopted the Joint Open Lab (JOL) model, consisting ofjoint labo-ratories where academic research and knowledge combine with industrial know-how and experience. During 2013, 7 new laboratories were inaugurated, joining the JOL SKIL (Se-mantics & Knowledge Innovation Lab) opened in Trento in the first half of 2011. For infor-
mation on the activities of the laboratories go to telecomitalia.com. 
Working Capital is the programme that has supported the birth and development of new digital innovation businesses in Italy since 2009. The projects developed in 2013 include the following:
•
 Welco (
www.welco.it), a device that allows people to connect their home or office inter-
com to their smartphone or tablet; 
• Cityglance (www
.cityglance.co), innovative social networking app that connects people 
travelling on public transport anywhere in the world; 
• ViciniDiCasa (
www.vicinidcasa.com), which allows a neighbourhood platform to be cre-
ated to connect people and create new social relationships, communities of interest and even business opportunities between neighbours; IN 2013, 7 NEW LABORATORIES  
WERE INAUGURATED EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 87
 THE COMMUNITY | 
• Dropin (www .dropin.fm), an innovative cloud service that provides access to a virtual re-
cording studio via your browser, making music composition a “social” experience; 
• Starteed (
www.starteed.com), innovative crowd-funding platform (collective financing via 
the Internet), which provides support for people to promote ideas, with funding and ex-
pertise, on a non-profit-making basis;
• Fattura24 (
www.fattura24.com), cloud service, usable online or as a mobile application 
(IOS and Android), which allows self-employed professionals or businesses to manage their invoicing on the move, sharing documents with customers, suppliers and account-ants; 
•
 HackAcademy (
www.hackacademy.com), e-learning platform that allows people to de-
sign and create electronic objects. A personalised education path allows people to mas-ter open hardware or quickly develop their products with the community and then sell them through the shared store. 
Changemakers is the business acceleration programme promoted by Telecom Italia and Expo Milano 2015, with the ambitious aim of changing the lives of 10 million people. Pro-jects implemented in 2013 included: •
 Tootek
o (www.tooteko.com), which allows an “audio” track to be applied to objects and 
make any surface clickable and interactive. The potential applications of this technol-ogy include helping the visually impaired to gain information about the appearance of objects, providing a new educational tool to teach children to read and write, and creat-ing a new device to replace conventional light switches. Tooteko, launched a partnership with M.A.R.T in Rovereto;
•
 Orange Fiber (
www.orangefiber.it), a “social” fashion project that uses nano-technolo-
gies to transform citrus fruit waste into textile raw materials and clothing that release vitamins when they come into contact with the skin, involving women in difficulty and disadvantaged people in the production process; 
•
 PanP
an (www.panpan.biz), a smartphone social information app that allows geolocal-
ised questions associated with specific areas to be sent and users to be identified in the same area who might be able to answer the questions. The application can also be used as a B2B platform for surveys and market research;
•
 Bircle (www
.bircle.co), a mobile and web application allowing people to create and pur-
chase travel guides for those with mobility impairments. Each guide is produced by ex-perts (e.g. disability managers, associations) and, in crowd-sourcing mode, by the users themselves, using a rating system for buildings based on a universal language that al-lows people with mobility impairments and those accompanying them to determine and consult the degree of accessibility of different places and find appropriate facilities and services for their needs;
•
 Trail Me Up (
www.trailmeup.com), a web service that uses enhanced virtual reality to go 
on guided tours of places that can only be accessed on foot. The tour that follows the virtual path is made possible by a special 360° photographic capture system fitted to a backpack, which allows the user to view the landscape with the same perspective as that of an actual traveller.88 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE COMMUNITY
Relevant stakeholders
The relevant stakeholders for research and development are:
• the areas of the company in
volved (e.g. Marketing and Purchasing);
• the supplier
s, for the joint development of solutions in accordance with the technical 
requirements of Telecom Italia;
• research centres and universities,
 for cooperation and joint projects. 27 new coop-
eration agreements with Italian universities were launched in 2013 on research top-ics relating to new technologies, coding algorithms, new communication services and paradigms; the standardisation bodies and forums (including NGMN, OpenIPTV Forum, OMA, 3GPP , ETSI, TM Forum, W3C, ITU-T) in which Telecom Italia is actively involved;
•
 the Ministries (Ministry for Economic De
velopment and Ministry of Education, Universi-
ties and Research), the European Union and public authorities (e.g. CNR and local au-thorities) for projects funded through participation in competitive tenders, and partner-ship initiatives;
•
 non-gover
nmental organisations, associations, alliances and industry forums (e.g. 
GSMA, m-health) which bring together all the entities involved in the value chain of the specific market; 
•
 international research and de
velopment organisations (e.g. EURESCOM and Joint Tech-
nology Initiative).
Relevant issues
The themes on which projects are developed are identified on the basis of the Three-Year Technological Plan, the reference document for the Group, which provides guidelines for the evolution of the network, platform and services. Published annually, following a wide-ranging process involving all the areas of the com-pany involved, the Plan identifies the main external factors (regulations, standards, ven-dors, other market operators) that may influence the company’s strategies and highlights the emerging and cross-cutting technologies in other sectors that may be of interest to the Group.
Projects and initiatives in this field can be divided into 4 macro-areas:
•
 New generation networ
ks
• Future Internet applications
• Positive en
vironmental impacts
• Positive social impacts.
New generation network projects
• As part of the work being done to improve the quality control of services, development of 
the CHECK Suite system continued. The system implements an innovative approach 
to mobile network configuration and performance management issues and presents the following strengths:
 › design and optimisation integrated with network creation and operation processes;
 › overall vie
w of the network and services starting with its individual nodes;
 › innovative and patented data analysis techniques;
 ›automatic detection 
of inefficiencies in Near Real Time and calculation of the impact 
on the end customer for optimal management of recovery activities in terms of cost/benefit. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 89
 THE COMMUNITY | 
• Metro-regional network configuration and validation operations w ere completed which 
allowed Telecom Italia, as the first operator in Europe, to obtain the MEF(23) “Carrier 
Ethernet 2.0” certification for Ethernet Access services. The certification allows TI to 
provide standardised services to its customers with improved QoS(24) and predictable 
SLAs(25).
• Laboratory testing and validation activities w
ere completed of the Service Hub model for 
the scalable and flexible evolution of Telecom Italia PoPs(26).
• Research activities continue with a view to vir
tualising network functions, i.e. potential-
ly transforming network services into applications run on cloud computing platforms. Meetings were held in this context with the leading manufacturers and a number of emerging businesses to explore strategies. A condominium wireless router was devel-oped that can be installed outdoors to supply data connectivity in digital divide situa-tions and industrial areas.
•
 As part of the plan to introduce ne
w technologies (Cisco and Juniper) into Telecom Ita-
lia’s metro networks, the Turin Test Plant, working with the Engineering and Innovation functions, carried out a validation process, particularly in order to verify fixed and mobile end-to-end services. This required checks to be carried on interoperability with existing HW resources and support for innovative functions. 
•
 Introduction of RAN 
sharing(27) for TIM Brasil: as part of the TIM Brasil network develop-
ment activities, for the first time at Telecom Italia, the Turin Test Plant validated RAN sharing functions, which allow mobile access networks to be shared among operators (RAN Sharing), implemented on LTE
(28) and Evolved Packet Core(29) (EPC) technology. New 
Data Center EASY-DC offers: as part of the development of Nuvola Italiana offers, a new test environment was created in the Turin Test Plant to allow new EASY-DC architectures and models to be validated in the laboratory. Comparative tests performed on the vari-ous technologies, with the engineers from Telecom Italia’s Data Center and TILab In-novation functions, allowed the testing of DataCenter geographic redundancy services which are totally innovative in the Italian cloud market.
•
 As par
t of the Mobile Network VAS Communication project, a platform (MES CE) was set 
up to deliver interactive communication services in Communication as a Service mode, which allows interactive multichannel, conventional voice and Web services to be cre-ated.
DevelopmentsNew generation network projects witnessed the following achievements:•
 Machine-to-Machine (M2M) gatew
ay for the management of home automation and 
Smart City services;
• external L
TE router and cabling for apartment blocks or businesses using the existing 
television infrastructure (coaxial cable). A patent application has been submitted for this activity as well;
•
 creation of the “Machine-to-Machine SmartPhone Gate
way” paradigm and development 
of a SIM card application for assessing physiological parameters associated with sports performance.23
Metro Ethernet Forum - MEF , the key 
organisation for Ethernet technology, is a global industrial alliance of 220 organisations, including telecom-munication operators, TLC network equipment and software producers, semiconductor component manufac-turers and testing organisations.
24
Quality of Service.
25
Service Level Agreement.
26
Points of Presence – Internet access points, or routers, supplied by Telecom Italia to route traffic to end users.
27
Radio Access Network Sharing is a smart way to share networks offered to operators as a useful way of coping with the gradualreduction in margins and contributing to a reduction in the use of energy and environmen-tal impact.
28
Long Term Evolution – also known as 4G, is an advanced, high speed mo-bile telephony standard.
29
EPC is a core network architecture based on the Internet Protocol sup-porting LTE.90 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE COMMUNITY
Future Internet application projects
In the field of Capillary Networks, Telecom Italia is conducting studies and developing net-
work prototypes to create the IoT (Internet of Things) in Connected Cities. In particular, it provides for a very high number of devices (sensors, actuators, etc.) to transform a city into a Smart City. These devices will have a short-range, low cost and low energy radio interface. In order to start the development of Connected Cities it is therefore necessary to create the so-called Capillary Networks that will allow the devices (the “things” in IoT) fitted with short-range radio interfaces to communicate efficiently, just as smart phones do today on the 3G and LTE network. The TILab laboratories are developing the Capillary Network platform prototypes used for Smart City Trials and projects funded by the Euro-pean Commission and the Italian Ministry of Education.DevelopmentsThe future Internet application project achievements were as follows:•
 augmented reality app that simulates a virtual clothing store;
• probe app to monitor the 
performance of services used on smart phones and the qual-
ity of the experience perceived by users;
• PC and 
smart phone app to speed up web browsing and video streaming services on 
mobile networks;
• smart phone app to impro
ve the efficiency of the device’s battery;
• Smart phone app to request different standards of ser
vice from the mobile network de-
pending on the demand and type of application.
M2M (Machine-to-Machine) developmentsIn 2013, Telecom Italian joined the GMA (Global M2M Association), specifically by taking part in an international tender for the creation of VW/Audi automotive M2M systems along-side lead bidder Deutsche Telekom (DTAG). The estimated turnover is around 70,000 con-nected cars sold in Italy between 2014 and 2017.
Proximity technology services that make life easier for users
•
 TIMWallet Consumer/Business ser
vice: allows physical wallets to be replaced by a virtu-
al wallet on a mobile phone displaying the services supplied by companies in the NFC(30) 
ecosystem or by Telecom Italia itself. Purchases are made by placing the phone close to a reader (POS, turnstile);
•
 launch of the cobranded Banca Intesa/Visa/TIM card within the TIMW
allet; 
• NFC Badge, Canteen,
 Vending machine services for Telecom Italia and Unicredit em-
ployees;
• launch of TIMPa
y for remote credit card payments using a mobile phone;
• launch of BNL payment cards.
Smar
t applications for the Internet of the future
Telecom Italia is actively involved in creating the Future Internet platform and services, also through cooperation projects funded by the European Union (Future Internet Public Private Partnership - FI-PPP), to enable and support customers in creating and using ser-
vices based on advanced Internet technologies. The use and dis-closure of personal information belonging to users, generally dis-tributed among their various “digital identities”, is an increasingly widespread trend. The platform provides innovative functions, such as inhibition, associated with appropriate alarms, of the accidental 
or unintended sharing of sensitive content with contacts considered to be “non-trusted”, or setting of the privacy level to be associated in real time with more or less recurrent situ-ations.30
Near Field Communication: a tech-
nology that supplies short range bi-directional wireless connectivity (RF) (up to a maximum of 10 cm).
PROXIMITY TECHNOLOGY SERVICES MAKE 
LIFE EASIER FOR USERS EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 91
 THE COMMUNITY | 
• Telecom Italia has directed the end-to-end design and implementation of the Smart City 
App prototype for Expo 2015,
 which is intended to become a reference tool providing 
information, services and entertainment during the event, on the participating nations, the city and the country, the partners and players involved. The purpose is to establish an ongoing relationship with the visitor, particularly using new generation LTE mobile connectivity networks and more evolved devices. By using innovative technologies, such as Augmented Reality and Visual Search, this prototype will allow a view of Milan today and Expo 2015 tomorrow, integrating the real vision with multimedia animation and con-tent. For further information go to telecomitalia.com. 
•
 The Telecom Italia “SocialTV” programme monitor
s technological and business devel-
opments and evolution taking place as a result of feedback from broadcasting, where there is an increasing trend towards simultaneous TV viewing and real time social me-dia discussion on tablets and smart phones. Telecom Italia released the Friend TV app available in the App Store and Google Play, which allows users to interact with this mode on a kind of Social second screen.
Development of Big Data solutions
(31)
• With the Trentino Open Living Data (TOLD) project,  Telecom Italia has set itself the goal 
of developing and testing a “Big Data” platform for collecting and analysing data from different local players (companies, industries, government organisations). The objec-tive (also pursued by the SKIL, Telecom Italia’s Trento-based Semantics & Knowledge Innovation Lab, which carries out advanced research and post-university training activi-ties in the field of semantic technologies) is to use telephone network data combined with other data sources (e.g. electricity meter readings, number of vehicles using mo-torways, public transport) to highlight trends, movements or the presence of people. This information allows services to be provided to customers for energy management, traffic forecasting, urban planning and insurance offers. For further information go to telecomitalia.com. 
•
 One of the projects run b
y SKIL is the Mobile Territorial Lab (MTL) for the processing of 
Personal Big Data: the combined data that individuals generate via their smartphones and that transform people into local sensors, as theorised in the Smart City models. According to the Living Lab model promoted by the EIT (Euro-pean Institute of Innovation & Technology) and the Autonomous Province of Trento, a pilot community has been created of young families who use smartphones with “sensing” software and SIM card that constantly collects information about their move-ments, interactions and preferences, thus providing a dynamic map of the area in which they live. 
Projects with positive environmental impacts
• As regards issues associated with exposure to electromagnetic fields, wor k is continu-
ing between TIlab and La Sapienza University of Rome, the Polytechnic University of the Marche and Regional Radioprotection Agencies. The dual purpose of this collabora-tion is to determine the average level of attenuation of electromagnetic fields afforded by the structures used in construction, in order to analyse the intensity of fields within buildings, and to measure, as accurately as possible, the amount of power transmitted by mobile radio base stations over a period of 24 hours. For further information go to telecomitalia.com. 31
Definition coined by the Computer 
Community Consortium in 2008 for a set ofdiverse pieces of information that is so large and complex as to re-quired capture, processing, manage-ment, analysis and display tools that differ from conventional ones
A “BIG DATA” PLATFORM IS CURRENTLY 
BEING DEVELOPED, FOR COLLECTING AND ANALYSING DATA FROM DIFFERENT SOURCES92 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE COMMUNITY
• With regard to sustainable mobility,  Telecom Italia is collaborating with a number of 
initiatives and projects aimed at developing Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS). The 
purpose of these activities is to implement ICT solutions that make vehicle transport and mobility for people and goods safer, more efficient and more environmentally-friend-ly, in accordance with the priorities and objectives established by the European Un-ion and transposed into the ITS National Action Plan. For further information go to telecomitalia.com.
•
 The Smar
t Mobility research project is continuing with the design and prototyping of in-
novative services. In particular, prototypes are being created for multimodal transport planning, km0 logistics services managed using mobile terminals, ride sharing and car sharing services. The aim is to experiment with ways to make transport environmentally sustainable. The project also includes Connected Car project activities, focused on in-teractions between vehicles, mobile terminals and network services to deliver on-board navigation services and enable environmentally-friendly and economical driving styles. A prototype is currently being developed to gather data from vehicles, via mobile termi-nals, in order to analyse them and determine the ecological footprint of journeys.
•
 With its MUSA (MUltiservice networ
k Simulator Application), Telecom Italia provides a 
general assessment of the design of a Wireless MBus 169MHz based multiservice net-work for a geographical area represented by one or more towns. The services consid-ered, and the respective networks, relate for example to the remote reading of gas and water meters, heat metering and environmental monitoring sensors. The application uses the theoretical results of the simulation to a real area of the country, attempting to make the most of the business assets existing within it. The final result is a map of the best assets for the widest possible coverage of the chosen area.
Projects with positive social impacts
• Smile Project: working with the Municipality of T urin, actions and projects were planned 
that came together in the Master Plan for Torino Smart City. The following topics were covered:
 ›Safecity: evolved ICT video sur
veillance and sensor system solutions that allow real-
time intervention in public emergency (e.g. natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods) and criminality situations; 
 ›Smart Utility (Gas,
 Water, Wastes, Electricity): smart metering and smart resource us-
age solutions for sustainable cities. Solutions are being developed for identifying hid-den leaks in water distribution systems, which exceed 30% of the amount distributed, leading to very high economic and environmental costs. With regard to gas metering, analyses and studies are being conducted with a view to implementing pilot projects with companies operating in the natural gas distribution sector, according to criteria established by the Italian electricity and gas regulator. M2M solutions are also be-ing analysed for the purpose of improving the use of energy resources with a view to developing distributed generation and remote control. In particular, work began on assessing the opportunity to share the telecommunication and power distribution network infrastructure, with a view to cutting costs and reducing their environmental impact. In this respect, Telecom Italia recently took part in the EUTC (European Utility Telecom Council) meeting with a speech on the potential synergies between TelCo and Utility operators in the electricity sector;
 ›Electric Mobility: smart electric mobility solutions are being de
veloped and turned into 
prototypes in a way that considers “smart” charging issues and the impact recharging can have on power networks (smart grid); EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 93
 THE COMMUNITY | 
 ›e2Call: this project enhances the “eCall” service (a project r un by the European Com-
mission to provide rapid assistance to motorists involved in a collision anywhere in 
the European Union) based on larger amounts of information compared to the original project, reducing the negative consequences of delays or unsuitable interventions to a minimum. 
As part of the activities aimed at digitising Italian schools, TILab prototyped a solu-tion which allows a diverse range of personal devices to be used, both in and out of school, which do not require any installation. The educ@TIon solution is entirely web-based, based on open source and modular applications and created as an SaaS (Soft-ware as a Service) in the cloud. The platform allows any kind of digital educational content to be managed and provides teachers and students with a set of digital teach-ing tools, regardless of the type of devices available in the classroom - any kind of IMB (Interactive Multimedia Board) or Interactive Display can be used - and the personal devices used by teachers and students - PC, netbook, tablet, regardless of the operating system.The educ@TIon solution therefore allows educational content, whether it is self-produced, “downloaded” from the Internet or obtained from school text book publishers, to be managed in an integrated and shared way, making it easier to adopt 2.0 teaching methods, which are particularly geared towards skills-driven, collaborative and proactive teaching based on user generated content. For further information go to telecomitalia.com.
•
 With regard to Health and Wellness,
 the development continues of ICT services that 
can improve and increase the efficiency of the health system, such as mobile technolo-gies to support m-health (mobile health) applications, which allow automatic exchanges of data between devices and remote processing systems, cloud solutions which allow the offer to be diversified, making it scalable and, ultimately, big & open data solutions, which allow large amounts of diverse data from open and distributed sources to be ana-lysed. The topics covered at the moment are described below:
 ›development of a Home Doctor platfor
m (set of products and services for delivering 
healthcare services supported by ICT technologies and electro-medical solutions for monitoring parameters related to major chronic diseases) by means of: 
 ›evolution tow
ards Continua Health Alliance standards(32): implementation of Contin-
ua protocols for integrating Continua Certified tools on gateway applications (which allow the measurements taken by medical devices to be collected and sent to a networked platform) allows the process of configuring and taking/sending of the measurements by patients to be simplified, cutting the cost of integrating new medi-cal instruments; 
 ›state of health features: subjective data collected by questionnaires and objective measurement data 
collected by medical instruments are processed to provide an 
aggregated view of the overall state of health of the patient via a graphic dashboard. Other processing allows information to be obtained on data trends which allow any worsening of conditions to be promptly reported and therefore action to be taken on the patient. 
•
 Wellness@School and W
ellness@Company: prevention and wellness services aimed at 
providing solutions for healthy people to help them maintain and improve their health. The data collected and made anonymous can be processed for preventive purposes us-ing the Business Intelligence techniques employed to process so-called big data. For further information go to telecomitalia.com. 32
Continua Health Alliance is an open 
non-profit-making association that provides a forum for collaboration between healthcare and technology companies to improve the quality of personal healthcare assistance (www.continuaalliance.org). EDUC@TION MAKES EASIER TO ADOPT 2.0 
TEACHING MEATHODS94 | EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS
| THE COMMUNITY
• “Robot@school” solutions, which will be de veloped for Italian secondary schools, 
were presented during a workshop held at the Grassi Technical Industrial Institute of 
Turin. A memorandum of understanding was also signed between Telecom Italia and the Regional Education Department for Piedmont which, among other things, provides for a specific agreement on service robotics. In this context, Telecom Italia provides schools with systems and platforms for the introduction, sharing and network integra-tion (the so-called “cloud”) of robots that will support human beings in their daily living environment. With a view to supporting secondary schools in this way, a dissemina-tion workshop was organised to illustrate service robotics and its impact on the world of work.
•
 In the 
3GPP (Third Generation Partnership Project)(33) Telecom Italia promoted the es-
tablishment of an LTE system operating on the 450 MHz band: the specification activity was completed in September 2013. The purpose is to deliver the service in rural areas in Brazil
(34). For further information go to telecomitalia.com.
• “Digital islands” are a new urban fur
niture concept which allows government bodies and 
third parties to provide innovative and smart solutions for citizens. The first examples of digital islands have been installed in Milan. They are hyper-technological outdoor spaces available to citizens and tourists to communicate, get information, access city services and travel sustainably. They include multimedia NFC totems, Wi-Fi coverage, recharging facilities for mobile phones, lights and smart cameras and provide a point of access to smart mobility solutions, particularly electric quad bikes.
Commitment to AAL (Ambient Assisted Living) with European projects and field tests•
 In the field of health, de
velopment of the Fisio@Home application continued for the 
remote rehabilitation of patients affected by orthopaedic problems by allowing health care specialists to monitor them remotely. The application uses a network of wireless sensors worn by patients. These send kinematic data to a tablet, which analyses them and extracts information regarding motion in the joint to be treated. The results of this analysis are transmitted to a server which can be accessed by rehabilitation physicians and physiotherapists to assess rehabilitation progress.
•
 The Vrehab project, coordinated b
y the Italian Auxological Institute and co-financed by 
the Italian Ministry of Health and the Piedmont Region, continued with a view to devel-oping, among other things, a non-intrusive system to assess the state of health of Par-kinson’s Disease sufferers and provide neurologists with information useful for adapting treatments. This is carried out by analysing kinematic data collected by inertial sensors worn by patients while they perform specific exercises.
•
 Telecom Italia is also focused on the wor
ld of the elderly. The aim of the European 
WIDER (green groWing SMEs: Innovation and Development in the energy sector in mEd aRea) project in the field of Ambient Assisted Living is intended to achieve better man-agement and sharing of knowledge for small and medium sized companies on the sub-ject of ecosmart dwellings for the elderly. Telecom Italia is part of the scientific commit-tee and contributes to guiding technical and technological activities.
•
 November sa
w the completion of the European LIfe 2.0 project aimed at promoting the 
use of technology by elderly people to support forms of fully independent life by means of a location-based services and social networking platform. Experimental activities or-ganised by Life 2.0 involved around 80 users aged between 65 and 75, subdivided into four pilot cities (Milan, Barcelona/Spain, Joensuu/Finland, Aalborg/Denmark). Italian 33
3GPP is an inter-operation group 
involving several organisations from different countries: ETSI (European), ARIB and TTC (Japanese), TTA (Ko-rean), CWTS (Chinese) and ANSI-T1 (USA).
34
According to Brazilian government statistics, 15% of Brazilian homes are situated in rural areas, corresponding to 29.8 million people with no access to broadband. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 95
 THE COMMUNITY | 
activities were coordinated by the Polytechnic of Milan, with the technological support of 
Telecom Italia, and involved 19 people. The main purpose of the experiment was the na-tive app for iPad created entirely by Telecom Italia, with which elderly people were able to manage their personal profile, read or publish ads and register for events organised by the non-profit-making entities which took part in the project. The Life 2.0 project activi-ties were presented during major national and international events, including the Smart City Exhibition held in Bologna in October.
•
 Also for elderly people,
 an experimental service has been launched with Cilte, a social 
cooperative offering a remote assistance service. Users of the remote assistance ser-vice have been offered two different solutions they can use at home: RicordaTI and Cas-siel. RicordaTI is a tablet app that reminds elderly people of the things they have to do, such as a doctor’s appointment or a medicine they have to take. Cassiel instead uses a small wireless sensor to monitor the front door and alert the remote assistance centre if the door is left open for too long.as a business success factor
1. HUMAN RESOURCES
1.1 STRATEGY 
The Group companies recognise the centrality of Human Resources, knowing that the prin-
cipal factor in the success of any business is the professional contribution of the people who work in it, within a framework of openness and mutual trust.The Group companies ensure health and safety in the workplace and believe that respect for workers’ rights in the conduct of economic activity is a fundamental principle.The management of the workforce aims to guarantee equal opportunities and to promote the professional growth of each individual, while respecting the specificities expressed.A new way of designing and implementing strategies and policies for valuing people was launched in December, 2013. A three-year People Strategy was developed according to the Group Business Strategy and the main human capital management and development trends. The strategy consists of nine People Value (the new name of the Human Resourc-es function, emphasizing the new identity based on the value of people) programmes. It will operate in close cooperation with the main Line functions, fully sharing their purpose, cross-contaminating each other and boosting innovation and effectiveness.100 | INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
| HUMAN RESOURCES
1.2 RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS
The relevant stakeholders are the employees and trade unions. 
1.3 HEADCOUNT AND CHANGES 
Unless otherwise stated, the data shown in the tables contained in the Human Resources 
chapter relate to all the Telecom Italia Group companies (see § Reporting).
Headcount as of December 31, 2013 is as follows:
Telecom Italia Group
(units) 12.31.2013 12.31.2012 Changes
ITALY 53,152 54,380 (1,228)
ABROAD 12,467 11,961 506
TOTAL PERSONNEL ON PAYROLL 65,619 66,341 (722)
AGENCY CONTRACT WORKERS 4 40 (36)
TOTAL PERSONNEL 65,623 66,381 (758)
NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD 
FOR SALE16,575 16,803 (228)
TOTAL 82,198 83,184 (986)
Excluding personnel concerned with “Non-current assets held for sale” (Telecom Argentina 
Group) and agency contract workers, the Group’s workforce has decreased by 722 units compared to December 31, 2012.
The changes can be itemised as follows:
•
 exit of LA7 Srl and MTV Group (543 people) from the consolidation scope;
• exit of a business unit of Olivetti i-Jet (35 people) from the consolidation scope;
• net turno
ver down by 144 people, as detailed below by individual Business Unit:
(units) Recruited Departed Net change
DOMESTIC 564 (1,093) (529)
BRAZIL 4,877 (4,359) 518
OLIVETTI, MEDIA AND 
OTHERS14 (147) (133)
TURNOVER 5,455 (5,599) (144) INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 101
 HUMAN RESOURCES | 
Turnover: detail by BU Recruited DepartedInternal transfers
Group +Internal transfers
Group -Total change
DOMESTIC 420 (984) 144 (109) (529)
BRAZIL 4,877 (4,359) _ _ 518
OLIVETTI, MEDIA 
AND OTHERS14 (112) _ (35) (133)
TURNOVER 5,311 (5,455) 144 (144) (144)
Activities in Brazil are characterised by high staff turnover and account for the bulk of ter-
minations in the Group as a whole. As regards Domestic BU terminations, voluntary re-dundancies due to fulfilment of the conditions for a retirement pension during the mobility period established by Law 223/91, accounted for 26% of terminations. Other voluntary re-dundancies accounted for 42%. The remainder relates to other causes, including dismiss-als that took place in the framework of a trade union agreement for staff who had fulfilled the conditions for a retirement pension, deaths, etc.
Characteristics of Telecom Italia Group personnel
Staff operating in the Telecom Italia Group, net of employees related to “Non-current as-sets held for sale” and agency contract workers, can be broken down as follows:
0.1%
Workers
1.3%
Senior managers
7.0%
Middle managers/
professionals
91.6%
Of/f_ice Staff
16.8%
Up to 32
48.0%
Over 45
35.2%
33 to 45TELECOM ITALIA GROUP:
EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY JOB CATEGORYTELECOM ITALIA GROUP:EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY AGE BAND
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP: EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY ACADEMIC QUALIFICATION
6.3%
Other
22.7%
Graduates
71.0%
Diploma holders102 | INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
| HUMAN RESOURCES
19.0%
Abroad
81.0%
ItalyTELECOM ITALIA GROUP:
EMPLOYEE BREAKDOWN BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA
TELECOM ITALIA GROUP:RECRUITMENT BREAKDOWN BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREAThe geographical distribution and intake of personnel by the Group, net of employees re-
lated to “Non-current assets held for sale” and agency contract workers, are shown below:
For further information regarding Group or BU personnel, see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com  website.
1.4 GENDER BALANCE
In 2013, the distribution of men and women was the following: 
DISTRIBUTION OF MEN AND WOMEN
(units) 12.31.2013 12.31.2012 Changes
MEN 41,375 42,004 (629)
WOMEN 24,244 24,337 (93)
TOTAL 65,619 66,341 (722)7.7%
Italy
92.3 %
Abroad
 INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 103
 HUMAN RESOURCES | 
In 2013, the percentage of women holding senior management positions in the Telecom 
Group was approximately 15% of the total senior management population. In middle man-agement, the proportion was 26% of the total middle management population. 
1.5 PEOPLE CARING
Over the years, the Telecom Italia Group has developed several programmes and initiatives to support its employees, to improve the quality of their working lives, also providing sup-port outside the Company.People Caring is the structure created by Telecom Italia to respond to the expectations of employees regarding certain important issues, identified through active listening carried out both on line (Intranet, community, email) and through meetings and focus groups. The main themes identified are: •
 balance between wor
king life and free time and support for the requirements of employ-
ees’ families;
• support for volunteering initiatives b
y employees;
• promoting the 
forms of diversity that exist in the workplace through activities and projects. 
Balance between working life and free time and support for the requirements of 
employees’ families
At Telecom Italia
• Parking for expectant mothers: female employees are provided with a reserved parking 
space until the beginning of their mater
nity leave at all company offices with car parks.
• Nurseries: 
in addition to the 10 nurseries currently available at the company’s offices 
in Rome (3), Turin, Milan, Ancona, Florence, Naples, Catanzaro and Palermo, 7 discount agreements have been signed with an equal number of external nurseries in Turin, Rome (5) and Padua. 438 children were registered in 2012-2013. As of today, 422 children are registered for the academic year 2013-2014.
•
 Loans for mums and dads: 197 loans were granted to ne
w parents with children under 
the age of three.
• Time saving: 
 ›handling of 
official formalities: 39 offices are available for this purpose at company 
offices in Turin, Milan, Venice, Verona, Padua, Bologna, Florence, Rome, Naples, Bari, 
MenWomen
75%
0%25%50%100%
2013 201263.1%36.9% 36.7%
63.3%DISTRIBUTION OF MEN AND WOMEN 
IN TELECOM ITALIA GROUP (2013-2012)104 | INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
| HUMAN RESOURCES
Cagliari and Genoa;
 ›wellness area: g
yms can now be found in the Padua and Rome offices of the company, 
while a Wellness Area is available in the Naples and Rome offices;
 › laundry/shoe repair
s: service available in Milan and Rome (in 4 offices);
 › newsagents: a
vailable in 3 offices in Rome;
 ›discount agreements: 49 online offers of products and ser
vices have been launched 
as a result of Telecom Italia’s partnership agreements, mostly within Italy (cars and 
motorbikes, culture and shows, electronic goods, sports goods, financial institutions, health and wellbeing, travel and holidays, miscellaneous).
•
 Company loans: 70 loans granted for house purchase/building pur
poses, 106 for home 
renovation work, 421 for various other purposes.
• Mobility manager: in order to assist colleagues with commuting betw
een home and 
work, an “Intranet Mobility” area has been created to answer questions from colleagues and provide an opportunity to share cars (car pooling) in some of the major cities (Turin, Milan, Genoa and Rome). 15 Company offices provide a shuttle service, making over 
300 journeys a day and 32 offices have been equipped with bicy-cle racks. •
 Breaks:
 ›traditional 15-day summer camps for children betw
een the ages 
of 6 and 12 with 4,432 participants in 12 centres;
 ›14-day 
themed summer holidays for older children between the ages of 12 and 17, 
dedicated to learning English and sports (football, tennis, sailing, horse-riding, volley-ball, basket ball, outdoor pursuits, etc.) as well as archaeology, music and theatre and cycling trips along the Danube, with 2,297 participants in 17 centres;
 ›14-day themed summer holida
ys for teenagers between the ages of 15 and 17 at sev-
en colleges in the UK (5), Ireland (1) and the USA (1), with 562 participants.
• Scholarships abroad: scholar
ships were provided for teenagers between the ages of 15 
and 17 for 100 4-6 week summer stays abroad to learn other languages (Ireland, Fin-land, Spain, Latvia, China and Japan) and 20 stays lasting one academic year (Europe, United States, Canada, Honduras, Costa Rica, Argentina, Brazil, Japan, China, Hong Kong and India).
•
 Refund of university fees: 288 refunds of fir
st year registration fees were paid in 2013. 
• Christmas Day 2013: children up to the age of 10 visited their parents’ offices on De
-
cember 19; in 60 offices, small gifts were distributed in addition to a snack.
• Motivational initiatives: involvement and par
ticipation by colleagues in sport, art, cul-
ture, music, entertainment and historical events together with various company depart-ments.
•
 “Bimbi in campo” (kids on the pitch) initiative: 180 children of employees w
ere given 
the opportunity to hold hands with TIM Serie A football champions and accompany them onto the pitch, wearing team strips.
In Brazil
• Favourable terms offered to employees for opening bank current accounts, discount agreements and health insurance.
•
 “Happy 
day”: employees are entitled to take a day off on their birthday or, if on maternity 
leave, to full pay for the relevant day. Employees are also granted additional paid days in case of marriage (5 days in total) and further paid days to new fathers for the birth or adoption of a child (10 days in total).
•
 “TIM apre le porte” (TIM open da
y): this is an annual initiative aimed at introducing the 
children of employees to the environments where their parents work. 
• “A future without boundaries”: this programme helps the children of emplo
yees to NUMEROUS INITIATIVES FOR EMPLOYEES 
AND THEIR FAMILIES HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT  INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 105
 HUMAN RESOURCES | 
choose their career through seminars and meetings with a number of employees in or-
der to understand how the work is done.
• “Children’s food kit”: all emplo
yees with children between the ages of 6 months and 2 
years can request a kit provided free of charge by the Company which includes a num-ber of specific foods. If prescribed by a doctor, the kit can also be requested for children under 6 months of age.
•
 “Accident and sickness insurance”: emplo
yees are guaranteed supplementary insur-
ance cover to maintain their normal standard of remuneration in the event of a pro-longed illness or accident at work.
Support for volunteering initiatives by employees
At Telecom Italia
• Volunteering at Dynamo Camp: this is the first facility created to allow children and 
y
oung people suffering from serious or chronic diseases to spend time playing and 
having fun in contact with nature and in complete safety. During 2013, a further 30 col -
leagues volunteered for two sessions at the centre, using days of paid leave to cover the activities performed at the camp.
•
 Na
vigare Insieme (Surfing Together): Internet browsing assistance activities for the 
over 60s run in computer training centres in 17 Italian cities (see § The Community ). 
Employees who took part in the internal tender and worked with volunteers from the project’s partner associations had 40 hours of paid leave over a period of four months, including travel.
•
 Te
lecom Italia blood donors group: during the year, the Group organised 63 days at the 
offices in Milan, Naples, Palermo, Rome and Turin.
• Ch
arity initiatives: 133 banquets were organised at various company offices for char -
ity initiatives.
In Brazil
Through its “Citizen without Borders” (Cidadão Sem Fronteiras) project, TIM Brasil gives employees a day off work per year to volunteer for organisations picked by employees or participate in social actions promoted within the Company. 
Promoting the forms of diversity that exist in the workplace through activities and 
projects
At Telecom Italia
Numerous information and awareness-building activities were carried out in this respect:
• the activities of the Diversity Committee,
 which consists of 35 colleagues representing 
diversities of gender, religious, age, sexual orientation, disability and ethnicity continued in 2013;
•
 a video was produced to promote diver
sity in the Company with funding provided by the 
Equal Opportunities Department;
• a collaboration was consolidated with the ASPHI F
oundation regarding the integration 
of people with disabilities in the Company. The “ComunicoIO” Convention was signed for hearing impaired employees, who were supplied with a special technological kit with which to work and communicate in the Company;
•
 a training event entitled “Non ho l’età” (I’m not old enough),
 on the subject of ageing and 
disability, was organised for 220 supporters and colleagues of the Marco Virzi Diversity 106 | INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
| HUMAN RESOURCES
committee. Attending as speakers were Marco Buemi of UNAR, Beatrice De Luca of the 
ASPHI Foundation and Maria Cristina Bombelli of Wise Growth, who spoke about building awareness and combating discrimination in Italy, as well as about disability and ageing;
•
 activities associated with the following projects continued in 2013:
 ›“Nuovamente in pista” (Back on track): a model w
as devised to manage the return of 
employees after long absences for whatever reason (maternity, study, illness) in order to help improve the organisational climate; 
 ›“Role Model in the context of the Direzione Donna (Women in Management) Project”: this initiative aims to promote female leader
ship, to increase the representation of 
female talent within Telecom Italia and to support the involvement of women in the dynamics of our Company through concrete action. 17 meeting were organised in sev-eral Italian cities;
 ›workshops,
 skill building and seminars promoted by Valore D, involving Telecom Italia 
and other companies, to promote female diversity, talent and leadership;
 ›workshops and conferences promoted b
y Sodalitas, involving Telecom Italia and other 
companies, to address the issue of how to manage and motivate employees of differ-ent ages, particularly in light of recent legal provisions regarding pensions;
 ›activities of a working group set up last year
, within Telecom Italia’s Human Resources 
& Organization department, to draw up proposals aimed at recognising the contribu-tion of senior colleagues;
 ›membership of the board of 
directors of Parks, an association for the promotion of 
LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) rights, with resulting activities within the Company to guarantee paid leave for LGBT couples who decide to get married abroad. 
In Brazil
TIM ran a diversity promotion campaign using internal communication tools and other ini-tiatives, including the company’s own version of the Olympic Games (Olimpìadas TIM). Now in its fourth year, this is an internal championship involving 8 disciplines to promote inte-gration as well as the company’s identity and values. Over 2,500 employees took part in the 2013 event.
For information regarding the other activities for employees and their families of a cultural 
or recreational nature or relating to healthcare services and refunds for medical expenses (CRALT , ASSILT , ASSIDA) see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
In order to help colleagues deal with psychological difficulties and problems at work and in their personal lives, a counselling service run by professional psychologists has been operating since 2010 in the People Caring Centre. Following a trial period conducted in 4 Italian regions, as of 2013 the service has been extended to the whole country. The Centre was contacted by 158 employees: 135 counselling processes were started and 46 Company-related cases were handled to the full satisfaction of the employees involved.
Counselling service INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 107
 HUMAN RESOURCES | 
1.6 DEVELOPMENT
At Telecom Italia
• Individual Perfor mance Feedback is a project dedicated to providing feedback on the 
performance of employees, aimed at identifying areas of strength and improvement. By 
establishing a closer relationship between supervisors and employees, the tool is in-tended to help improve the performance of employees. 
•
 The process was completed on Januar
y 29, 2013 and involved 
around 48,000 non-managerial staff from the Telecom Italia Group. 81.6% of participants stated in their feedback question-naire that they were entirely satisfied with the process, which involved the use of dedicated focus groups including evaluators and the evaluated from different company functions and was benchmarked against the best practices employed in national and international companies.
•
 The proposals for improvement that emerged will be carefully considered,
 particularly in 
terms of their feasibility.
• Par
ticipated Development allows people at Telecom Italia to “participate” in their devel-
opment and that of their colleagues/supervisors. The aim is to bring out talent by meas-uring the reputation of people, thus complementing the information obtained through “classic” development tools. Following the pilot stage, which ended in January 2013 and involved around 10,000 employees, focus groups were organised and survey was held to listen to people and identify actions for improvement.
•
 Individual development plans w
ere set up at the beginning of 2014. For further details 
on this project go to the telecomitalia.com website.
• Assessment of the potential of managers and emplo
yees: assessment activities contin-
ued in 2013 covering the whole Telecom Italia Group and involving 397 people. The cre-ation of the assessment centres - which is governed by specific guidelines - is entrusted to the company HR Services S.r.l. of the Telecom Italia Group, which is ISO 001 certified.
•
 A new de
velopment tool called Motivation Check was also introduced in 2013. This is 
specifically reserved for highly valued senior resources (over 50) who are an important asset for the TI Group in terms of experience and knowledge. The purpose of the initia-tive is to enhance the motivation of these people and support it over time, particularly by analysing their motivational style and implementing development plans aimed at planning a “second life” in the Company. The initiative involved 65 people in a total of 8 programmes.
•
 Management assessment: the manager assessment programme launched in 2009 continued with aim of assessing their readiness to cover more extensive managerial posts. 30 manager
s were involved in 2013, covering 30% of managers in total.
In Brazil
Several online assessment systems have been developed in order to map the potential of all the Company’s employees, identifying strengths and areas of improvement, and to pro-vide guidance on development activities. For details of the assessment and development tools used, go to the telecomitalia.com website.The “Talent without borders” programme launched last year to attract and retain the best talents continued. It is aimed at young, dynamic and creative professionals, who are given the opportunity to access accelerated and diverse professional career paths.PARTICIPATED DEVELOPMENT IS A NEW TOOL 
FOR EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT108 | INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
| HUMAN RESOURCES
1.7 SELECTION
At Telecom Italia
As of 2011, in agreement with the trade unions and following agreements signed with the 
relevant universities, the New Labour Market Initiatives project has been launched, involv-ing the activation of 330 apprenticeship contracts, Tier II Master’s Degrees for 60 recent graduates and doctorate scholarships for 100 engineering and economic students. 
An initial group of young people involved in these programmes has now been hired by Telecom Italia on full-time permanent contracts. Hiring will continue throughout 2014-2015.An Induction Training course has been planned to make it easier for new recruits to join the company, strengthening their profes-sional skills (facilitating interaction between the generations) and 
maintaining a high level of motivation/engagement. The programme includes a first stage of development and training on cross-cutting and managerial issues, followed by a second stage aimed at developing professional skills based on the position held and the career path planned.
2013 activities carried out in partnership with Universities/Training Organizations
• Once again this year,  Telecom Italia attended the main Italian Career Days, participating 
in events organised by universities in Rome, Milan, Trento and Bari. Turnout was high again this year, with over 500 interviews being held between students and employees manning the stands. 
•
 Over 150 internships w
ere provided, allowing young people to pursue learning at the 
Group’s offices.
• For 
the 2013-2014 academic year, a new Tier II English Language Master’s Degree pro-
gramme called “Smart Solutions Smart Communities” was sponsored, in association with Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna in Pisa. The Master’s programme also includes a six month internship in the Company.
•
 Scholarships and inter
nships continued to be provided on subjects regarding innovation, 
ICT systems, TLC and Media, antitrust, security, general management and labour law.
• For the third year r
unning, Telecom Italia was involved in the “Leader del Futuro” project 
(with The European House - Ambrosetti and the Federazione Nazionale Cavalieri del La-voro) providing 3 development and merit scholarships. 
•
 As part of the strategic par
tnership with Bocconi, a new “TIM Chair in Market Innova-
tion” was established. Studies will be focused on determining which tools, strategies and organisational approaches can promote innovation and the creation of new mar-kets, strategies and marketing.
In Brazil
The main selection programmes implemented in 2013 were: •
 “Jovem 
Aprendiz” (Young Apprentice): this programme promotes the training of young 
people between the ages of 16 and 24 for potential employment in the Company. An administrative training course is provided for young people to prepare them to enter the world of work; 
•
 “Talentos sem F
ronteiras” (Talents without frontiers): intended to scout the market for 
young graduates in order to create a talented team of people who can be trained and developed to build the company management team of the future. In 2013, 16 young tal-ented people were recruited in strategic areas of the business;THE INDUCTION TRAINING PROGRAMME 
STRENGTHENS NEW HIRED PEOPLE 
PROFESSIONAL SKILLS INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 109
 HUMAN RESOURCES | 
• “Estágio sem Fronteiras” (Inter nships without frontiers): intended to select talented in-
terns with the aim of offering young university students an opportunity to develop in di-
verse ways and prepare for the labour market, as well as to increase their potential for finding permanent employment in the Company and possibly access the “Talentos sem fronteiras” programme. TIM selected around 120 young people in 2013; 
•
 around 230 people per month were recr
uited for Call Centres (2,752 people in total);
• around 180 senior and high level manager
s per month were recruited (2,134 people in 
total). 
1.8 TRAINING
In 2013, around 3.7 million hours of training were carried out in the company costing over 22 million euros in total. 97.2% of personnel participated in at least one training session. Summary data of the training provided by the Telecom Italia Group is shown below.
At Telecom Italia
Training in the Company is primarily aimed at:•
 business culture transformation b
y means of support plans for the management of or-
ganisational changes;
• the development of individual skills b
y means of personalised plans;
• professional redevelopment/retraining for the pur
pose of acquiring and reinforcing the 
skills required by organisational developments;
• respect for the ethical and compliance principles declared by the Compan
y (e.g. sustain-
ability, ethics, Legislative Decree 231, respect for privacy). TRAINING BREAKDOWN BY JOB CATEGORY 
HOURS
Participations
(*) (no,)Participants
(no,)Coverage
(%) (**)Total hours 
(no,)Hours per head
(no,)
TOTAL 3,765,649 57.39 453,188 63,806 97.2%
SENIOR 
MANAGERS23,091 26.36 2,387 675 77.1%
MIDDLE MANAGERS114,123 24.87 14,214 3,902 85.0%
OFFICE STAFF/WORKERS3,628,435 60.32 436,587 59,229 98.5%
*
Shows the overall number of participations in the various forms of training (classroom, online, training) on-the-job.
**
Coverage refers to the percentage of participants compared to the total, i.e. the % of human resources who took part in at least one training session compared to the total 
number of human resources in each individual category (senior managers, middle managers, Office Staff/Workers).110 | INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
| HUMAN RESOURCES
In Brazil
The main training activities carried out related to:
• Basic training 
and refresher courses dedicated to Sales and Customer Relations staff 
regarding new offers. All new recruits are required to attend training courses on compa-ny-wide issues, such as ethics and sustainability. 
•
 650 training courses w
ere held, amounting to 550,000 hours in total. 
• Revie
w of training activities with the help of a consulting firm in order to find a more ef-
fective and efficient teaching method. Around 230 people per month were trained in this way for Call Centres (2,752 people in total).
1.9 LISTENING ACTIVITIES AND PROJECTS
There are many instruments available to employees within the company to have their voice heard, both in a formal and informal way.In Telecom Italia and Tim Brasil, employees can make a series of approaches of an infor-mal nature to various dedicated email addresses, obtaining prompt responses on the ser-vices required and the issues raised.In a complex organisation, unilateral communication is no longer sufficient to encourage involvement and develop thought. For this reason, there is a gradual “conversion” of the traditional communication channels to more innovative ways of favouring two-way commu-nication inspired by web 2.0 logic, promoting the exchange of ideas, dialogue and discus-sion between members of the corporate community. In this respect, the Intranet and portal are fundamental tools as they allow everyone to get involved, provide information and implement formal and informal forms of “listening”, such as climate surveys, blogs and open virtual communities. In this way, discussion and debate are encouraged on internal issues linked to the business and more general current topics, including environmental and social issues, making structured channels available for the purpose of collecting contributions and proposals. These include the Archimede project, which, from 2008, rewards the most innovative and feasible ideas every year in order to op-timise the processes and services supplied, gathering proposals from the people directly involved in operational processes. During the first half of 2013, awards were presented for the 2012 Archimede campaign to Open Access and Customer Care colleagues. The plan is currently being extended to other parts of the Company.Launched at the end of 2010, the project gives employees the opportunity to register free of charge for one of the degree courses offered by the faculties of law, economics, engineering, communication science, psychology and arts of the Uninettuno International Telematic University, with the aim of promoting non-work related knowledge and skills. Anyone gaining at least 50% of the credits required by their curriculum is also entitled to a refund of registration costs for subsequent years. Agreed with the industry’s main Trade Unions - SLC-CGIL, FISTel-CISL and UILCOM-UIL - the initiative was remarkably successful, with 2,540 active participants in the academic year 2012-2013. 
I care about myself INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 111
 HUMAN RESOURCES | 
Reports to the Audit Department Manager
Any requests for clarification regarding the appropriateness of one’s own conduct or the 
conduct of other people, in order to ensure full compliance with the Code and the values set by the Code itself, must be addressed to the Audit Department of Telecom Italia S.p.A. or to the Audit Function manager of the Group’s overseas company directly involved, in ac-cordance with specific internal procedures.Recipients of the Code and anyone who has adhered to it are required promptly to inform the manager of the Telecom Italia S.p.A. Audit Department or the manager of the Audit Function of the Group’s overseas company directly involved, using the appropriate internal procedures:•
 any violations,
 requests or inducements to violate legal provisions or regulations, provi-
sions of the Code and internal procedures with regard to the activities and services of interest to the Group;
•
 any ir
regularities or negligence in accounting procedures, keeping of relevant account-
ing documentation, fulfilling reporting obligations or internal management in Group com-panies.
There are no negative consequences for people who make reports in good faith.The confidentiality of the identity of people making reports is in any case guaranteed by appropriate internal procedures, subject to legal requirements. No recipient of the Code, employee or third party having business relations with the Group can be subject to sanc-tions or otherwise discriminated against if he/she refuses to perform actions or adopt a conduct which are considered, in good faith, to infringe the Code, even if this refusal should result in a loss of business or other adverse consequence for the company’s busi-ness and/or the Group.
1.10 INTERNAL COMMUNICATION
At Telecom Italia
The main communication initiatives are listed below:•
 two editions of the journal Sincronizzando w
ere published, addressed to everyone in the 
Group in Italy and dedicated to the future and to talent in all its forms within the Com-pany. Digital development of the journal is planned with the launch of an online edition, accessible via the Intranet confirming the prestige and author-ity of the content and enriched with opportunities for interaction and hyperlinking;
•
 the finishing touches were put to a ne
w 2.0 intranet environment 
which will allow maximum cross-departmental involvement the development of ideas, al-lowing people to share spaces online for group work, practice communities, knowledge-sharing activities;
•
 the AgendaImpegno (agenda of commitments) was created with Libera,
 involving 12 
schools of all levels, throughout the country, on the issues of the “Miseria Ladra” (pov-erty is a thief) campaign: for the first time, the agenda was digitised and made available on the Internet to bring the employees of Telecom Italia, school children and Libera vol-unteers together around the relevant issues;
•
 multimedia conventions are now the established method for conducting inter
nal meet-
ings. They involve a small number of people gathering in an auditorium or large meeting room and interacting with a vast virtual audience of colleagues connected from their work-stations by video-streaming. People taking part in these multimedia conventions submit their questions to speakers before and during the meeting, interact on the subjects and NUMEROUS INITIATIVES OF INTERNAL 
COMMUNICATION HAVE BEEN CARRIED OUT112 | INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
| HUMAN RESOURCES
provide feedback through blogs, forums and virtual networks. This 
way of holding meetings is in keeping with the interaction and in-volvement experiences with which the Company is experimenting through an increasingly widespread social media presence. The on-
line mode also allows the content to be used at a later date and contributes to minimis-ing greenhouse gas emissions by avoiding the need for people to travel. 
•
 In particular
, June saw the fourth Parli@mone e-convention, during which senior manag-
ers and Top Management held discussions with people from Telecom Italia regarding the network spin-off. The fifth Parli@mone event was held in October, during which sen-ior managers and Top Management presented the main features and objectives for the business over the coming months;
•
 kick-offs of the ne
w Business and Consumer organisations took place and the launch 
programme continued for the new Telecom Italia Information Technology company, in-volving surveys of internal expectations, two management meetings, an e-convention with an innovative format, the live involvement of other company offices and an open debate; 
•
 the first Compliance Da
y dedicated to Telecom Italia management was organised.
In Brazil
The Company’s fourth Olympic Games (Olimpíadas TIM) were organised to promote inte-gration within the Company, corporate identity and corporate values (see § People Caring). 
1.11 HEALTH AND SAFETY 
At Telecom Italia
The main health and safety initiatives implemented are listed below:•
 at the end of the “Sicuri, adesso” (Safe,
 now) campaign, which ran from the end of 
2012 to May 2013, aimed at improving knowledge and awareness among Telecom Italia S.p.A. employees regarding health and safety at work, a final survey was addressed to around 20,000 employees to verify the effectiveness of the actions taken.
•
 The results showed a general impro
vement in the percentage of correct answers com-
pared to the initial survey (10.5% increase), demonstrating the effectiveness of the ini-tiatives taken.
•
 the “Sicuri, adesso” campaign w
as supported by the “Sicuri, più” (Safe, plus) competi-
tion, aimed at keeping attention alive regarding health and safety issues, reducing inju-ries, encouraging active involvement, showcasing colleagues by rewarding best perfor-mance. The safety training plan continues. Aimed at all Company personnel (workers, supervisors, managers), it uses a personalised approach based on the role and opera-tional context of trainees and state-of-the-art educational tools that measure the effec-tiveness and efficiency of the training. The plan, which will be completed during the first half of 2014, provides for at least 8 hours of training to be provided for each employee involved. 211,060 hours of training were provided in total;
•
 ad hoc activities were also car
ried out on the subject of “work in confined spaces”, 
which involved technical personnel and staff of the businesses operating in the fixed network area. 
•
 the following road safety activities took place:
 ›two-wheeled vehicle safe driving courses for 40 networ
k engineers who use MP3 eco-
scooters in Italian historic city centres; DIALOGUE IN THE COMPANY IS MORE  
AND MORE ONLINE INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 113
 HUMAN RESOURCES | 
 › on-road safe driving courses for staff driving compan y vehicles;
 › off-road safe driving courses for staff who use 4-wheel drive vehicles for wor
k. 
The training sessions involved 382 employees;
• following the cooperation with Istituto Superiore per la Protezione e la Ricerca Ambien-tale 
– ISPRA, launched in the first half of 2013 to develop a new method for assessing 
occupational exposure to certain sources of electromagnetic radiation, instrumental measurements are taking place at the company sites identified;
•
 with regard to occupational exposure to noise, an assessment w
as made of the risk 
incurred by various uniform groups of technical personnel in performing their work. Fur-thermore, with regard to exposure to noise through headphones, an evaluation method was established and a call centre measurement campaign is being completed relating to the Telecom Italia 187, 187-2, 119 and 191 services;
•
 with regard 
to the assessment of work-related stress, according to the guidelines set by 
the Standing Advisory Commission for Health & Safety at Work and the methodological guidance contained in the INAIL Manual of 2011, a detailed analysis and assessment project was launched in mid-September focused on Open Access technical staff and Customer Care 119 and 187 personnel. Among these uniform groups of workers, the preliminary assessments carried out in 2011 and 2012 had in fact identified a MEDIUM risk, which remained unchanged despite the specific improvement actions undertaken as a result of the evaluation carried out in 2011.
•
 Coordinated by the Pre
vention, Protection and Environment Service with the cooperation 
of a Research Team consisting of experts from the company BSD and the University of Rome “Tor Vergata” (Occupational Medicine), the survey has the following aims:
 ›to assess the individual stress factors - identifying potential cor
rective actions - and 
to determine the impact of organisational change on the physical and mental health of individuals;
 ›to propose tools to manage, communicate and monitor the effects of organisational change,
 so as to support both line management and operational staff involved in 
the project. For further information regarding research into work-related stress go to telecomitalia.com;
•
 with regard to the checks carried out on supplier
s, 17 audits were carried out on fixed 
network companies during 2013. As of 2014, the results of health, safety and environ-ment audits carried out will contribute to determining the Vendor Rating;
•
 in the second half of 2013, following the establishment of a per
manent working group 
among Italian networked companies (including Vodafone, Ferrovie, Autostrade per l’Italia, British Telecom, Anas, Condotte, Enel, Poste) an initial series of meetings were held to discuss issues arising from the fulfilment of legal requirements and the develop-ment of health and safety at work activities. On this occasion, the meeting discussed the subject of “training in health and safety at work” and provided an opportunity to consider technical and implementation aspects in detail with the contribution of legal and institutional experts.
In Brazil
At TIM Brasil, all newly hired employees receive training on health and safety in the Com-pany. TIM sites with more than 50 employees set up internal committees for the preven-tion of accidents at work. There are 9 of these committees across the country. TIM has 26 members of staff dedicated to prevention activities.114 | INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
| HUMAN RESOURCES
Accidents 
The Group continues to pay constant attention to the issue of safety in the workplace, 
mainly by verifying implementation of risk control measures and providing training aimed at disseminating a logic of respect and protection for oneself and others. Similar attention is paid to providing training for the operation and maintenance of TLC systems that involve overhead work (poles, ladders and pylons) in order to ensure that people acquire sufficient knowledge on how to behave correctly during work-related activities. The accident at work data for Telecom Italia S.p.A. are shown below:
12.31.2013 12.31.2012
NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS (EXCLUDING COMMUTING) 538 577
SEVERITY INDEX(*)0.21 0.15
FREQUENCY RATE(*)8.34 8.10
AVERAGE DURATION IN HOURS 132.83 97.46
UNPRODUCTIVITY INDEX(*)1.40 0.94
ACCIDENTS PER 100 WORKERS 1.23 1.23
*
The severity, frequency and unproductivity indexes are respectively:
 -the number of conv
entional working days lost due to accident per thousand hours worked
 -the number of accidents per million hours work
ed
 -the number of hours lost due to accidents per thousand hours work
ed 
In keeping with the trend set in recent years, 2013 saw a further decrease in the abso-lute terms in the number of accidents at work. However, compared to 2012, there was an increase in a number of accident indexes, particularly those associated with the length of the incident, such as severity and unproductiveness.An analysis is being carried out to determine the causes of this reversal in the trend and identify what actions can be taken to achieve ongoing improvement in the rate of acci-dents. 
See the telecomitalia.com website for the main indicators of accidents recorded across 
the Group in 2013.
 INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 115
 HUMAN RESOURCES | 
1.12 INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
At Telecom Italia
In February and March, during specific meetings, Telecom Italia provided the trade un-
ions with an overview of the macroeconomic context, which is particularly critical for the whole telecommunication sector, and the respective market scenario, characterised by very strong competitive pressure. The meetings addressed the development prospects for the various businesses, the organisational considerations and the impact on employment levels.
In this context, the Company and the trade unions held discussions to find solutions aimed 
at achieving the shared goal of safeguarding employment levels by recovering efficiency and productivity, particularly in access network operations and caring services.
The discussion ended positively with specific agreements being signed on March 27 and 
28, which identify an important series of actions to support employability and aimed in par-ticular at promoting internalisation processes. The agreements also provided for produc-tion surpluses to be managed by using the most socially sustainable safety nets: above all defensive solidarity contracts and voluntary collective mobility. For employees who already meet the requirements for access to social security payments, an agreement was reached to consider this condition as an entitlement to collective mobility.At the same meeting, an agreement was signed between the Com-pany and the trade unions regarding the Performance Bonus, run-ning from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2015, which provides for the variable elements of the remuneration that do not vest in the employee to be correlated to results achieved, which are assessed on the basis of profitability, revenue performance and quality of service. 
Telecom Italia has also decided to recognise the contribution made by workers to the eco-
nomic and productive performance of the Company by paying an undifferentiated amount to all employees of the same grade for the second half of 2012. For this purpose, a spe-cific agreement was reached with trade union representatives.
Pursuant to current legislation regarding Company transfers, Telecom Italia S.p.A. and Tel-
ecom Italia Sparkle S.p.A. implemented the procedure with the trade unions involved with regard to Telecom Italia Sparkle’s intention to transfer its Network Operations business unit to Telecom Italia S.p.A., through a partial spin-off, as of September 1st, 2013. Employ-ment contracts will be transferred without interruption from Telecom Italia Sparkle S.p.A. to Telecom Italia S.p.A.The operation will allow the organisational structures dedicated to planning activities, pro-cesses and skills to be made more efficient. 
Specific agreements were signed in June, as part of the discussions held between the 
Company and the trade unions to help find agreed solutions on how to introduce new work shifts for people operating in the Consumer Mobile and Business Credit Customer Opera-tions, in the context of Caring Services.These agreements, which will contribute to further improving oversight of the service and meeting the requirements of the relevant customers, will also allow workers to achieve a better work-life balance. SAFEGUARDING EMPLOYMENT LEVELS IS AN 
OBJECTIVE SHARED BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND TRADE UNIONS116 | INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
| HUMAN RESOURCES
The Company signed a memorandum of understanding with the trade unions which allowed 
staff to receive one day of paid leave for every public holiday that fell on a Sunday in 2013, as listed in the agreement, instead of the financial and legal arrangement for which their contract provides. This option was also granted, through agreements with the trade unions, to the employees of other Group companies (Telecontact, HRS, TI Information Technology, TI Digital Solutions, IT Telecom).
In line with the agreements reached on March 27, 2013, a further year’s extension was 
signed in July with the trade unions of the defensive solidarity contract for personnel oper-ating in Directory Assistance offices in southern Italy.
For information on industrial relations relating to TI.IT , Telecontact Center, Advanced Caring 
Center, HRS s.r.l. TI Sparkle, TI Media, Olivetti and Brazil see the sustainability section of the telecomitalia.com website.
1.13 REMUNERATION POLICY
The Group’s remuneration policy is based on an individual pay packet structure that aims to ensure a proper balance between the fixed and variable components, based on the Company’s strategic objectives and risk management policy. The architecture is intended to safeguard the identity and integration of the Group (unity) as well as to respect the di-versity of the relevant markets (differentiation), so as to sustain the Company’s competi-tiveness and performance and ensure staff involvement, honesty and internal fairness.Remuneration policies differ according to a horizontal classification of employees aimed at subdividing resources based on the role they perform and their individual value.
The fixed remuneration component reflects the breadth and strategic nature of the role per-
formed, measured using a job assessment system based on methods that are recognised and certified at international level, as well as the distinctive subjective characteristics and strategic skills of the employee.
The short term variable remuneration aims to establish a transparent link between pay and 
the degree of fulfilment of annual targets. For this purpose, the targets are fixed according to qualitative and quantitative indicators that represent and are consistent with the stra-tegic priorities and business plan, measured according to pre-established and objective criteria, subject to discretional assessment margins.
The general terms of short-term incentive (MBO) policies, which were significantly reviewed 
in 2012 in terms of operating mechanisms and people involved, are understood to be con-firmed for 2013, except for the further refinements introduced, particularly in light of the incentive results reported in 2012.Alongside the MBO system, another system of incentives exists for professional staff, with the aim of aligning the results achieved by these employees with the overall performance of the Company.The Company’s remuneration structure also provides for a long-term variable component that involves participation in annual Long Term plan cycles with an incentive period cor-responding to the strategic planning period. In light of the current economic situation, the Board of Directors decided to suspend the 2013 Long Term Incentive plan cycle intended for a select group of the Company’s managers. INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 117
 HUMAN RESOURCES | 
Stakeholder 
of referenceTargets subject to incentives % of managers to whom the target applies
Customers •  Customer satisfaction
• Quality of the service delivered
• Quality of the service perceived b
y consumer 
and business customers 
• Quality of the service perceived b
y other 
national fixed and mobile telephony 
operators90%
4%
90%
9%
Human Resources •  Health and safety of employees
• Programmes of training and professional growth
•
 Welfare activities (P
eople Caring) and the 
wellbeing of employees  1%
Environment •  Consumption of materials, energ
y 1%
Shareholders and Institutions•
 Quality and speed of company infor
mation 
delivery1%
The Community •  Organisation of corporate e
vents
• Quality of corporate initiatives/projects 1%
2. SHAREHOLDERS
2.1 STRATEGY
The Group companies are fully aware of the importance of supplying accurate information 
about their activities to the financial market, investors and the Community in general. Subject to the need for confidentiality in the running of thebusiness, communication with the financial market is carried out in a way that ensures transparency, fairness, clarity, promptness and equality of access to information, ensuring equality of treatment for all categories of shareholders, as required by the Bylaws. The external communication of in-formation is governed by specific internal procedures, in line with the applicable regula-tions. The Company has set up dedicated channels of communication with shareholders, bond-holders and other stakeholders interested in receiving information about the financial and non-financial aspects of the Company (see § Financial communication). 
2.2 STAKEHOLDERS AND THEIR EXPECTATIONS
The Investor Relations department manages relations with the main stakeholders: institu-tional and retail, investors, bondholders, socially responsible investors, equity and credit analysts. Their shared expectations relate to:•
 confirming the objectives repor
ted to the financial market through the strategic plan;
• strengthening the Group’s position in the mar
kets in which it operates;The importance
for all120 | INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
| SHAREHOLDERS
Stakeholders Needs
Institutional and retail inves-
tors• Good financial and operational performance b y the company
• Positive T
otal shareholder return (stock market performance of the 
shares and dividends distributed)
• Good reputation of the Group’s brand
• Involvement in the Group’
s activities and initiatives
Socially responsible investors•
 Attention paid to the social and environmental impacts of the com-pan
y’s business and to the Group’s governance
• Positive total shareholder retur
n
• Good reputation of the Group’s brand
Bondholder
s and credit 
analysts • Stability of the yield from the investment
• Certainty of repa
yment of the debt at maturity
• Maintaining of creditworthiness 
F
inancial analysts • Direct contact, e
ven with the Group’s management, on matters 
relevant to the business
15.8%
Other shareholders Italy
4.4%
Legal entities
abroad
0.8%
Legal entities
Italy
51.5%
Institutional shareholders abroad0.1%
Other shareholders abroad
1.2%
Telecom Italia Group22.4%
Telco
3.8%
Institutional shareholders Italy
The shareholding structure as of December 31, 2013 is shown below.(35)35
Source: Register of shareholders as of 
December 31, 2013, supplemented by communications received and by other available information.• the certainty of receiving a prompt and effective response to requests for information.
The 
expectations of individual stakeholder categories are also given special consideration: INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 121
 SHAREHOLDERS | 
2.3 FINANCIAL COMMUNICATION
During the course of 2013, the Company organised quarterly conference calls, road shows 
and meetings abroad in the Group’s corporate centres (reverse road shows) as well as at-tending industry conferences. During these events, the Company met over 400 investors. In addition to these there are the direct contacts and telephone conversations that the Investor Relations team has on a daily basis. Furthermore, in order to improve communi-cation with the stakeholders, Telecom Italia promoted a series of meetings regarding Cor-porate Governance. The responses given by the Group to the financial market are based on criteria of rele-vance, information sensitivity, consistency and topicality in respect of the Group’s structure and the actions undertaken to achieve the targets of the strategic plan. Financial communication also takes into consideration the needs of investors linked to Socially Responsible Investing (SRI), which favours companies that pay attention to ethi-cal, social and environmental factors as well as financial ones. Communication with this particular category of investors is developed through individual contacts and participation in dedicated events. As regards relations with individual (retail) - shareholders - more than 400,000 holders of ordinary shares - Telecom Italia’s strategy aims to increase communication channels in or-der to respond quickly and effectively to queries regarding the performance of shares and the Group strategy as a whole. The messages and ideas that emerge from dialogue with retail investors are collected and re-ported to top management. The “TI Alw@ys ON” (telecomitaliaclub.it) Shareholders’ Club was launched in 2006 as a virtual meeting place between the Company and its individual investors. However, the Club is also open to people who do not own shares in the Group and registration provides access to the same free services that are reserved for shareholders, that is:•
 SMS aler
t, which provides a daily report of the closing price and percentage variations 
of Telecom Italia’s ordinary and savings shares compared to the previous day, as well as the daily percentage variations in the FTSE/Mib index;
•
 Weekly stock exchange repor
t, sent every Monday morning and summarising perfor-
mance during the week ending the previous Friday;
• Quarter
ly newsletter, available on the website, contains the main messages drawn from 
the press releases published when the Group’s results are released.
With regard to on line financial communication, the telecomitalia.com website is constantly updated and innovated. In 2013, Telecom Italia achieved second place in the Italian and European “KWD Webranking 2013” produced by KWD, the digital division of Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, a Swedish company that assesses and rewards listed companies that are most attentive to online corporate and financial communication (see § Introduction/Other acknowledgements).
2.4 RISK MANAGEMENT
Telecom Italia’s risk is understood to be an event that might generate a departure from the goals of the three-year plan.
In order to ensure a global approach to risk management, the Telecom Italia Group has 
adopted an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process.At the heart of the system is the Group Risk Management Committee which is chaired and TI ALWA@YS ON IS ALSO OPEN TO NON-
SHAREHOLDERS122 | INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 
| SHAREHOLDERS
coordinated by the “Administration, Finance and Control” Function Manager.
The Committee meets every three months (or when specifically required) and is intended 
to govern the Group risk management process, which is designed to guarantee the opera-tional continuity of the company’s business. The adopted process provides for:•
 the definition 
and updating of the policies on the efficient operation of the risks man-
agement process;
• the prior analysis of the context within and outside the Group;
• the assessment of the risk profile by the management,
 understood as a variation to the 
strategic objectives set out in the three-year plan;
• risk mapping with a specific focus on the ones deemed to be most significant;
• the assessment of the level of maturity in risk management and the establishment of inter-functional 
working groups defined by the Risk Management Committee for the im-
plementation of dedicated mitigation action plans and control key risk indicators.
With a view to ensuring continuous improvement, a process was launched in 2013 to re-new the ERM process, which will be operational as of 2014. Responsibility for oversee-ing the redesign of the new process has been assigned to a specific steering committee (known as the Enterprise Risk Management Steering Committee), chaired and coordinated by the Group CFO and reporting to the CEO.The results of this work will allow greater awareness and protection of the business to be developed thanks to a more objective approach to risk exposure, to the connection be-tween assessment activities and planning and capital allocation processes as well as to a timely verification of existing and/or future controls to mitigate the identified risks.
2.5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
At Telecom Italia
The Telecom Italia corporate governance system is structured in the conventional way and is consistent with the principles of the Code of Conduct drawn up by the Corporate Governance Committee of Borsa Italiana (available at borsaitaliana.it). At the end of 2012, the Company abolished its own internal code, which was considered obsolete, and adopted a number of principles of corporate governance that waive and/or supple-ment the framework of rules applicable to the tasks and operation of corporate bodies, referring in all other respects to the principles and criteria of the Code of Borsa Italiana (December 2011 edition).Compared to the pre-existing internal code, the new principles of corporate governance:•
 reaffirm the responsibility of the Board of Director
s, with a greater focus on the internal 
control and risk management system;
• simplify the listing of strategic operations requiring a prior resolution of the Board, stat
-
ing that it is an illustrative list;
• confirm the principles of operation of the Board,
 introducing the principle of long-term 
scheduling;
• confirm the presence of a Lead Independent Director and three inter
nal committees 
within the Board of Directors: Executive Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Control and Risks Committee (which replaces the Internal Control and Cor-porate Governance Committee, supplementing its functions);
•
 transfer the annual assessment of the Board of Directors from the Inter
nal Control and 
Corporate Governance Committee to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee; INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS | 123
 SHAREHOLDERS | 
• introduce specific references to procedures aimed at ensuring fulfilment of the commit-
ments made to the Brazilian authorities to ensure “separateness” from T
elefónica in 
the management of the Group’s South American subsidiaries;
• fully renew the inter
nal control and risk management system rules.
 The principles of corporate governance can be viewed on the Company’s website at telecomitalia.com, Governance section - Governance System/Codes.
For further information on the project, see the Annual Corporate Governance Report on 
the telecomitalia.com website.*
Status target:  
 achieved 
 not achieved1
The actual figures of the above men-
tioned objectives for 2013 will be available in July 2014 on the websites stated in note 2.
2
The full list of mobile service quality indicators, and the respective objec-tives for 2012, are available at tim.it. The full list of quality indicators for fixed network and IPTV Internet ac-cess services, and the respective objectives for 2013, are available at telecomitalia.it.1. RESULTS FOR 2012 AND 2013 
The results achieved are shown below, compared to the objectives published in the previous 
sustainability Report for the year 2013 and in relation to the Customers stakeholder only, for the year 2012
(1).
1.1 TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A. – CUSTOMERS(2)
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unit of mesure-mentTarget 2012Final result 2012Target status 2012
(*)Target 2013
Customers 
MobileActivation time for voice service (pre-paid service) – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97 100
97
Customers MobileActivation time for voice service (post-paid service) – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97 100
97
Customers MobileResidential customer assistance services – Average response time of the operator to incoming callsseconds 35 20
35
Customers MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices received within the survey period and the number of invoices issued in the same period (post-paid service)% 1.3 0.5
1.2
Customers MobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges on pre-paid cards within the survey period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in the same period (pre-paid service)% 1.2 0.3
1.2
Customers InternetActivation time for broadband Internet access services – Percentage of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer (active telephone lines)% 94 98.9
95
Customers InternetActivation time for broadband Internet access services – Average time of supply (active telephone lines)days 9 7
9
Customers InternetBroadband Internet access service faults – Average repair timehours 27 18
26
Customers InternetDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding all Internet access services (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices issued in the same period% 1.2 0.36
1.0
Customers IPTVCustomer assistance response time – Average time of operator response to incoming callsseconds 70 63
70
Customers IPTVDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding the IPTV service (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices containing charges regarding this service (issued during the same survey period)% 1.2 0.6
1.0
Customers IPTVAvailability of IPTV service – Average unavailability of the servicehours/year36 7
36
128 | APPENDIX
1.2 TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A. - OTHER STAKEHOLDERS
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unitof meas-urementTarget2013Actual figure2013Target status 2013
Human 
Resources - TrainingTraining in health, safety and environment issues
(1)Training hours300,000 359,364
Human Resources - TrainingTraining – Training hours per head
(1)Training hours per head30 31.4
Human Resources - TrainingTraining - Coverage (percentage of employees out of the entire workforce who have taken part in at least one training session)% 82.50 95.3
Human Resources - AccidentsAccidents per 100 workers
(2)Number 1.30 1.23
The Environment - EnergyEco-efficiency indicator
(3)bit/joule 2,800 2,828
The Environment - EnergySelf-generation of energy from mixed sources (cogeneration)GWh 113 84
The Environment - EnergyFluorescent lighting units replaced with LED unitsNumber 100,000 100,072
The Environment - Atmospheric EmissionsReduction of the quantity of ozone-depleting gas (R22) used in air-conditioning and cooling systemskg 22,000 22,000
The Environment - Electromagnetic EmissionsSAR qualification
(4)% 100 100
The Environment - Electromagnetic EmissionsSAR qualification of other technologically innovative devices (USB memory sticks, tablets and routers) marketed under the TIM brandNumber 10 10
The Environment - PaperUsed paper sent for recycling Tons 19,000 19,9751
The data includes classroom, online 
and on-the-job training.
2
The severity index shows the working days lost during the year for every thousand hours worked.
3
For further information on the eco-efficiency indicator see The Environ-
ment/Energy .
4
This is the percentage of mobile phones subject to the SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) qualification. The percentage is calculated on the most widespread and technologically in-novative models of mobile phone handsets. APPENDIX | 129
1.3 TIM BRASIL
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unitof meas-urementTarget2013Actual figure2013Target status 2013
Human 
ResourcesTraining (total hours: in class, online and on the job) provided to its own employees, outsourced employees and internsTraining hours600,000 2,135,543
Human ResourcesSustainability training (percentage of employees, outsourced employees and interns out of the total workforce who have taken part in at least one training session on sustainability issues)% 30 31.7
The Environment Collection of mobile 
phones, batteries and other accessories to be sent for recyclingTons 13 0.37
(1)
The Environment Ratio between recycled waste 
and the total waste generated in the offices% 65 68
The Environment Energy - Reduction of the 
average quantity of electricity required by the mobile network compared to the number of lines% 4.17 4.43
(2)
The Environment Low environmental impact 
paperPaper purchased for office useTons 57.3 52.2
Suppliers Suppliers assessed under 
sustainability criteriaNumber 228 2281
In 2013, the phone, battery and 
accessory collection system was reviewed and suspended. The pro-gramme will be relaunched in 2014 with a point of sale communication plan aimed at training the teams in-volved and encouraging the public to practice recycling.
2
Although electricity consumption in 2013 was in line with the plan, the target was not reached because the customer base for the year was smaller than planned. The specific target will be replaced by an absolute target for energy consumption based on the efficiency projects to be imple-mented in 2014.
130 | APPENDIX
2. 2014 AND MULTIANNUAL TARGETS
2.1 TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A. – CUSTOMERS
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unit of measure-mentTarget 2014
Customers 
mobileActivation time for voice service (pre-paid service) – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97
Customers mobileActivation time for voice service (post-paid service) – Percentage of valid orders completed within the maximum period laid down in the contract% 97
Customers mobileResidential customer assistance services – Average response time of the operator to incoming callsseconds 35
Customers mobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices received within the survey period and the number of invoices issued in the same period (post-paid service)% 1.2
Customers mobileDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges on pre-paid cards within the survey period and the average number of active SIM/USIM in the same period (pre-paid service)% 1.2
Customers internetActivation time for broadband Internet access services – Percentage of valid orders completed within the date agreed with the customer (active telephone lines)% 95
Customers internetActivation time for broadband Internet access services – Average time of supply (active telephone lines)days 9
Customers internetBroadband Internet access service faults – Average repair timehours 26
Customers internetDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding all Internet access services (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices issued in the same period% 1.0
Customers - IPTVCustomer assistance response time – Average time of operator response to incoming callsseconds 70
Customers - IPTVDisputed charges – Ratio between the number of disputed charges in invoices regarding the IPTV service (received during the survey period) and the total number of invoices containing charges regarding this service (issued during the same survey period)% 1.0
Customers - IPTVAvailability of IPTV service – Average unavailability of the servicehours/year 36
 APPENDIX | 131
2.2 TELECOM ITALIA S.P .A. – OTHER STAKEHOLDERS 
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unitof meas-urementActual figure2013Target2014
Human 
Resources - TrainingTraining in health, safety and environment issues
(1)Training hours359,364 105,000
(2)
Human Resources - TrainingTraining – Training hours per head
(1)Training hours per head31.4 28
Human Resources - TrainingTraining – coverage (percentage of employees out of the entire workforce who have taken part in at least one training session)% 95.3 80
Human Resources - AccidentsAccidents per 100 workers number 1.23 1.28
The Environment - EnergyEco-efficiency indicator
(3)bit/joule 2,828 3,100
The Environment - EnergySelf-generation of energy from mixed sources (cogeneration)
(4)GWh 84 115
The Environment - Electromagnetic Emissions SAR qualification
(5) % 100 100
The Environment - Electromagnetic Emissions SAR qualification of other technologically innovative devices (USB memory sticks, tablets and routers) marketed under the TIM brandnumber 10 101
The data includes classroom, online 
and on-the-job training.
2
Training in this area will decrease in 2014 because much of the activity associated with the State-Regions Agreement was carried out in 2013.
3
Up to the last edition of the Sustain-ability Report, the eco-efficiency indi-cator referred to Telecom Italia S.p.A., but it can be considered to apply to the whole Domestic BU, since it takes into account the total traffic generat-ed by the Group companies operating nationally and the corresponding en-ergy consumption. Therefore the target for 2014 is understood to extend to the whole Domestic BU. 
4
As of 2014, the target is extended to the whole Domestic BU. Note in this respect that cogeneration plants currently only exist in Telecom Italia S.p.A. See the Multiannual Targets table.
5
This is the percentage of mobile phones subject to the SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) qualification. The percentage is calculated on the most widespread and technologically in-novative models of mobile phone handsets. 
132 | APPENDIX
2.3 TIM BRASIL – 2014 TARGETS
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unitof meas-urementActual figure2013Target2014
Human 
ResourcesTraining (total hours: in class, online and on the job) provided to its own employees, outsourced employees and internsTraining hours2,135,543 2,000,000
Human ResourcesSustainability training (percentage of employees, outsourced employees and interns out of the total workforce who have taken part in at least one training session on sustainability issues)% 31.37 30
The EnvironmentCollection of mobile phones, batteries and other accessories to be sent for recyclingTons 0.37 13
The EnvironmentRatio between recycled waste and the total waste generated in the offices% 68 68
The EnvironmentCompletion of the inventory and technical reports regarding the presence of asbetos in 95 (82%) of office and mixed use premises by October 2014Number
(1)95
Suppliers Suppliers assessed under sustainability 
criteriaNumber(2)501
Target not set for 2013.
2
The target for 2013 related to the 
assessment of “Suppliers”. In 2014, however, we preferred to focus atten-tion on assessing the “main suppli-ers”. For this reason, the actual final figures for the previous year are not available. 
2.4 DOMESTIC BU – MULTIANNUAL TARGETS – ENVIRONMENT AND DIGITAL INCLUSION
Area of 
referenceIndicator Unit of measure-mentTarget 2013Actual figure2013Status TargetTarget 2014Target 2015Target2016
The 
Environment - EnergyTotal electricity procured or produced
(*)GWh 1,898 1,898 1,942 1,911 1,876
The Environment - EnergySelf-generation of energy from mixed sources (cogeneration)GWh 113 84
115 121 125
The Environment - Atmospheric EmissionsReduction of CO
2 
emissions from the purchase and generation of electricity compared to 2013
(**)Tons 5,500 2,082 11,000 23,000 35,000
Digital InclusionNext Generation Plan (fixed telephony) cover% >50
Digital InclusionLTE Coverage
(***)% 60 80
*
The actual total energy requirement for 2013 relates to the Telecom Italia S.p.A. component. The 2014/2016 targets relate to the whole Domestic BU. Achievement of the total electricity consumption target for pur-
chase and generation by TI S.p.A. did not ensure achievement of the other two associated targets because in 2013 the energy generation mix was significantly changed, prioritising the air conditioning requirements of Data Centres resulting from the increased volume of traffic handled. Total emissions from electricity purchased and generated fell by less than the stated target of 5,500 t.
**
2013 target refers to 2012 data.
***
The percentage refers to the resident population. APPENDIX | 133
PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisory SpA
Sede legale: Milano 20149 Via Monte Rosa 91 Tel. 02667201 Fax 0266720501 Cap. Soc. Euro 3.200.000,00 i.v. - C.F. e P.IVA e Iscrizione al Reg.
Imp.Milano n° 03230150967 – Altri Uffici: Bari 70124 Via Don Luigi Guanella 17 Tel. 0805640311 Fax 0805640349 - Bologna Zola Predosa
40069 Via Tevere 18 Tel. 0516186211 - Firenze 50121 Viale Gramsci 15 Tel. 0552482811 Fax 0552482899 - Genova 16121 Piazza Dante 7 Tel.
01029041 - Napoli 80121 Piazza dei Martiri 58 Tel. 08136181 - Padova 35138 Via Vicenza 4 Tel. 049873431 Fax 0498734399 - Palermo 90141
Via Marchese Ugo 60 Tel. 0916256313 Fax 0917829221 - Roma 00154 Largo Fochetti 28 Tel. 06570831 Fax 06570832536 - Torino 10122 Corso
Palestro 10 Tel. 0115773211 Fax 0115773299- Treviso 31100 Viale Felissent 90 Tel. 0422315711 – Trieste 34125 Via Cesare Battisti 18 Tel.
0403480781 Fax 040364737 – Verona 37135 Via Francia 21/C Tel. 0458263001
Società soggetta all’attività di direzione e coordinamento della PricewaterhouseCoopers Italia Srl
www.pwc.com/it
INDEPENDENT REPORT ON THE LIMITED ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013
To the Shareholders of
Telecom Italia SpA
1. We have carried out the limited assurance engagement of the Telecom Italia Group (hereafter
the “Group”) Sustainability Report as of 31 December 2013 (hereafter the “Report”), followingthe verification procedures summarized in paragraph 3 to this Report. The Board of Directors ofTelecom Italia SpA are responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with theInclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness principles included in AA1000 AccountAbility
Principles Standard (2008) (AA1000APS - 2008), issued by AccountAbility (Institute of Social
and Ethical Accountability), as described in the paragraph “Reporting”. The Board of Directorsof Telecom Italia SpA are responsible for the definition of the Group objectives with regard tothe sustainability performance and reporting results achieved. The Board of Directors are alsoresponsible for the identification of the stakeholders and of the significant aspects to report, aswell as for the implementation and maintenance of appropriate management and internalcontrol processes concerning data and information included in the Report. We are responsiblefor the preparation of this Report on the basis of the work performed.
2. Our work has been conducted in accordance with the principles and guidelines established, for alimited assurance engagement, by the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000- Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information(ISAE 3000), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. Theseprinciples require the compliance with applicable ethical principles (Code of Ethics forProfessional Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants), includingprofessional independence, which was respected also in accordance with the AA1000AccountAbility Assurance Standard (2008) (AA1000AS – 2008), since services or activities
that could have generated an independence conflict have not been performed for the Group.ISAE 3000 requires that our work is planned and performed with the aim of obtaining a limitedassurance, rather than a reasonable assurance, that the Report is free of material errors.
Furthermore, our work has been conducted taking into account, consistently with the
AA1000AS - 2008, those aspects relevant for the valuation of the reliability of data andinformation on sustainability performance detailed in Appendix 1.
2 of 3A limited assurance engagement of the sustainability report consists in interviews, primarilywith company’s personnel responsible for the preparation of the information included in thesustainability report, in the analysis of the sustainability report and in other verificationprocedures.
3. The verification procedures performed on the Report are summarized as follows:
 comparison between the economic and financial information and data included in the
Report with those included in the Group consolidated financial statements as of 31
December 2013;
 analysis of design and implementation of governance and management system of
sustainability topics related to strategy and operation of Telecom Italia SpA, as well as of
the processes and instruments used to identify the stakeholders and the most significant
issues to them;
 analysis of the processes underlying the generation, recording and management of
quantitative data included in the Report. In particular, we held meetings and discussions
with Telecom Italia SpA, Telecom Italia Sparkle SpA, TIM Participaçoes SA and HR
Services Srl management representatives selected on the basis of a quantitative andqualitative risk analysis, in order to achieve a general understanding of the information,
accounting and reporting system in use to prepare the Report, as well as of the internal
control processes and procedures supporting the collection, aggregation, processing andtransmission of data and information to the department responsible for drawing it up;
 meetings and discussions with Telecom Italia SpA, Telecom Italia Sparkle SpA, TIMParticipaçoes SA and HR Services Srl management, in order to understand and evaluate
the processes utilized to comply with the Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness
principles included in the AA1000APS – 2008 standard;
 analysis, on a sample basis, of the documentation supporting the Report in order to obtain
the evidence of processes in place, confirm the reliability of data and information obtained
in the above-mentioned meetings and discussions and regarding the sustainabilityperformance, as included in Appendix 1;
 obtaining a representation letter, signed by the legal representative of Telecom Italia SpAand CSR responsible, relating to the completeness and reliability of the Report and of the
information and data included in it, as well as to the compliance with the principles
referred to in paragraph 1.
A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagementcarried out in accordance with ISAE 3000 and, as a consequence, it provides a lower level ofassurance that we became aware of all the significant events and circumstances that areasonable assurance engagement could have identified.
As far as data and information concerning the sustainability report of the prior year, presented
for comparative purposes, are concerned, refer to the assurance report issued on 8 April 2013 .2 of 3
A limited assurance engagement of the sustainability report consists in interviews, primarily
with company’s personnel responsible for the preparation of the information included in thesustainability report, in the analysis of the sustainability report and in other verificationprocedures.
3. The verification procedures performed on the Report are summarized as follows:
 comparison between the economic and financial information and data included in the
Report with those included in the Group consolidated financial statements as of 31
December 2013;
 analysis of design and implementation of governance and management system of
sustainability topics related to strategy and operation of Telecom Italia SpA, as well as of
the processes and instruments used to identify the stakeholders and the most significant
issues to them;
 analysis of the processes underlying the generation, recording and management of
quantitative data included in the Report. In particular, we held meetings and discussions
with Telecom Italia SpA, Telecom Italia Sparkle SpA, TIM Participaçoes SA and HR
Services Srl management representatives selected on the basis of a quantitative andqualitative risk analysis, in order to achieve a general understanding of the information,
accounting and reporting system in use to prepare the Report, as well as of the internal
control processes and procedures supporting the collection, aggregation, processing andtransmission of data and information to the department responsible for drawing it up;
 meetings and discussions with Telecom Italia SpA, Telecom Italia Sparkle SpA, TIMParticipaçoes SA and HR Services Srl management, in order to understand and evaluate
the processes utilized to comply with the Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness
principles included in the AA1000APS – 2008 standard;
 analysis, on a sample basis, of the documentation supporting the Report in order to obtain
the evidence of processes in place, confirm the reliability of data and information obtained
in the above-mentioned meetings and discussions and regarding the sustainabilityperformance, as included in Appendix 1;
 obtaining a representation letter, signed by the legal representative of Telecom Italia SpAand CSR responsible, relating to the completeness and reliability of the Report and of the
information and data included in it, as well as to the compliance with the principles
referred to in paragraph 1.
A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagementcarried out in accordance with ISAE 3000 and, as a consequence, it provides a lower level ofassurance that we became aware of all the significant events and circumstances that areasonable assurance engagement could have identified.
As far as data and information concerning the sustainability report of the prior year, presented
for comparative purposes, are concerned, refer to the assurance report issued on 8 April 2013 .3 of 3
4. Based on the procedures carried out, nothing came to our attention that causes us to believe that
the sustainability report of Telecom Italia Group as of 31 December 2013 is not in compliance, inall material respects, with AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) , as stated in the
paragraph “Reporting” of the Report, and that the sustainability performance included inAppendix 1 is not reliable.
Turin, April 1
st2014
PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisory SpA
Paolo Bersani
(Partner)
This report has been translated from the original, which was issued in Italian.
We have not performed any controls on the Sustainability Report 2013 translation.3 of 34. Based on the procedures carried out, nothing came to our attention that causes us to believe that
the sustainability report of Telecom Italia Group as of 31 December 2013 is not in compliance, inall material respects, with AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) , as stated in the
paragraph “Reporting” of the Report, and that the sustainability performance included inAppendix 1 is not reliable.
Turin, April 1
st2014
PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisory SpA
Paolo Bersani
(Partner)
This report has been translated from the original, which was issued in Italian.
We have not performed any controls on the Sustainability Report 2013 translation.Appendix 1 Data and information on sustainability performance
Area Information/KPI Page
Economic value Economic value generated and distributed 32
Human Resources Training Telecom Italia Group 109
Human Resources Training TIM Brasil 110
Human Resources Accidents Telecom Italia S.p.A. 114
Human Resources People Caring 103
Human Resources Turnover Telecom Italia Group 100
Environment Heating systems 59
Environment Vehicles 60
Environment Number of vehicles and distance travelled 60
Environment Electricity procured and produced 61
Environment Atmospheric emissions 66
Environment Waste 71
Stakeholder
InvolvementStakeholder Involvement 27
Community The measurement of our contribution to the Community 78
Community Initiatives consistent with the core business 79
Community Initiatives for general community development 81
Customers Customer Satisfaction Index 39
Customers Customer satisfaction concerning customer care 40
Customers Geographical Digital Inclusion and ADSL/broad band coverage 41
Customers The conciliation procedures 47
Customers Certifications 40
Suppliers Sustainability checks 53
Shareholders Financial communication 121
Shareholders Risk Management 121
Shareholders Corporate Governance 122DESIGN
CBAPublished in May 2014
Cert no. SQS-COC-100548
CONTACTS
Corporate Social Responsibility
Telecom Italia S.p.A.Piazza degli Affari, 220123 MilanoTel: +39 02 8595 4824www.telecomitalia.com
SEND YOUR SUGGESTIONS TO 
groupsustainability@telecomitalia.it