Better
Together
Sustainability Report
2020Our 
sustainability 
focusIncreasing customer
connectivity, choice 
and value
4See page 8
Protecting our
 customers and
 communities
4See page 14
Helping our
 customers and
 communities in
 times of need
4See page 18 About this report
This sustainability report covers the 
period 1 January 2020 to 31 December 
2020 (the reporting period), with the 
inclusion of a number of developments 
since the reporting period, where these 
are considered significant. 
This report covers the activities of 
TPG Telecom Limited (TPG Telecom), the 
entity that was created from the merger 
of Vodafone Hutchison Australia and 
TPG in July 2020.
The information in this report relates to 
TPG Telecom unless otherwise indicated. 
References to Vodafone Hutchison 
Australia are a reference to that company 
before the merger with TPG. 
Message from the CEO 2
About TPG Telecom 3
Our performance at a glance 4
Our approach to sustainability 6
Increasing customer connectivity, 
choice and value8
Protecting our customers and 
communities14
Helping our customers and 
communities in times of need 18
Supporting inclusion, belonging
and wellbeing of our people20
Aligning to pathway of green growth 25
Conducting our business ethically 
and responsibly30
Supporting smarter technology
for a healthier Australia32
Supporting inclusion, belonging 
and wellbeing of our people  
4See page 20
Aligning to 
pathway of 
green growth
4See page 25
Conducting our 
business ethically  
and responsibly
See page 30
Supporting smarter technology 
for a healthier Australia 
4See page 32This highlights some of our 
progress and achievements 
during the past year, in relation 
to issues which are important 
to our business and our 
stakeholders, and outlines our 
sustainability priorities for the 
coming year.
Sustainability Report 202012
Message from the CEO
I am pleased to share with you our sustainability report for 
2020 – our first as a newly merged business. It highlights 
some of our progress and achievements during 2020, in 
relation to issues that are important to our business and our 
stakeholders, and outlines our sustainability priorities for 
the coming year. 
An opportunity and responsibility 
Our greatest priority, and achievement this year has been 
the merger of Vodafone Hutchison Australia and TPG to 
create a leading full-service telecommunications provider – 
the second largest telecommunications company listed on 
the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX ). 
The merger combined two highly complementary 
businesses with a comprehensive portfolio of fixed and 
mobile products for consumers, small, medium and 
large enterprises. In taking this step, we now have the 
scale and financial strength to compete more effectively 
– with greater ability to invest and to drive innovation, 
service and product improvement to benefit Australian 
telecommunications customers.
We believe that with this scale and opportunity, comes an 
even greater accountability to act as a responsible and 
sustainable business, and that doing so will be fundamental 
to the creation and protection of long-term value. We aim 
to do business in a way which responds to the needs and 
expectations of all of our stakeholders – including our 
customers, employees, shareholders, regulators, and our 
wider society. 
Our critical role
2020 was shaped for all of us by extraordinary, difficult 
events – the bushfires and the ongoing COVID-19 
pandemic. I’m very proud of the way that all of our 
employees have responded, showing resilience, and care 
for our customers, communities, and each other. This 
includes our technology and operations teams that worked 
around the clock to restore services following extensive 
bushfire damage, as well as our customer-facing teams 
that helped our customers to access a range of support 
measures in the face of unprecedented and urgent need, 
for many months. The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted 
the critical role that our sector plays in society – keeping 
families and friends connected, and businesses operating, 
when physical connection is not possible. Our achievements
We have also successfully integrated our fixed and mobile 
assets following the merger, strengthening our network 
infrastructure and enabling faster speeds and better 
performance for our customers. For example, within two 
months of the merger, we had implemented 500 network 
upgrades with around 1.8 million Australians benefiting 
from the deployment of an additional 1800 MHz spectrum 
across 318 mobile sites. 
Our 5G roll-out is now full steam ahead with customers 
in parts of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Canberra, 
Adelaide, Perth and the Gold Coast, all able to use 5G, 
and work currently underway on more than 1,600 sites. 
I’m particularly excited about the role that 5G will play 
in connecting things in sectors such as healthcare and 
logistics – enabling use of technologies in ways that we 
haven’t yet imagined. 
In this report you will read about many other achievements 
across our business. This includes the launch of felix - 
Australia’s first telecommunications brand powered by 
100 per cent renewable electricity, our industry leadership 
on mobile customer security to address the significant and 
growing issue of identity theft, the ongoing impact of the 
Vodafone Foundation including DreamLab - a distributed 
global smartphone super-computer assisting with research 
on COVID-19 and cancer, and our first-of-a-kind program 
to support Indigenous women and girls in science, 
technology, engineering and maths (STEM), reflecting 
our broader commitment to inclusion and belonging. 
Looking ahead
But this is just the beginning. Building on the strengths of 
our newly merged company, we have significant plans for 
the year ahead. This includes more work on understanding 
and managing our impact on climate change and alignment 
of our business with the aims of the Paris Agreement and 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures. It also involves further progress on 
addressing human rights risks, with the publication of our 
first modern slavery statement. In late 2020, we appointed 
a new Head of Sustainability and in 2021, we will be 
launching our new Sustainability Strategy, reflecting our 
desire to make a positive difference for our stakeholders on 
issues where we are best placed to make a difference, and 
reflecting our role and responsibility as a leading Australian 
telecommunications company. 
Iñaki Berroeta  
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director,
TPG TelecomSustainability Report 20203
A leading mobile network comprising 
more than 5,600 sites covering over 
23 million AustraliansAustralia’s second-largest 
fixed voice and data 
networkAbout TPG Telecom
TPG Telecom is a full-service telecommunications provider listed on the ASX. We operate a number of leading 
mobile and internet brands including Vodafone, TPG, iiNet, Internode, Lebara, AAPT and felix.
A strategic portfolio 
of spectrum assets5GA 5G mobile network currently being 
rolled out in selected areas of Australia 
targeting 85 per cent population coverage 
in the six top cities by the end of 2021Our organisation at a glance:
Our purpose is to build meaningful relationships and 
support vibrant, connected communities.
6,500km
international subsea cable systems 
connecting Australia to major hubs 
in North America and Asia
7 million+
customer 
subscriptions
5,975
employees27,000km+
metropolitan and inter-capital fibre 
networks in Australia
1 million+ businesses
able to access high speed symmetric 
fibre with nbn Enterprise Ethernet4
Our performance at a glance
$1,391m
earnings before interest, 
tax, depreciation and 
amortisation 
Supported 
>223k customers
in financial difficulty to 
stay connected during 
COVID-19Reduced fraudulent 
ports by over 
85%
Committed 
to powering 
our Australian 
operations 
with 100% 
renewable 
electricity 
by 2025Reduced 
Telecommunications 
Industry Ombudsman 
complaints by over 
30%1
71
girls participated in 
Dream Connection 
STEM programMatched 
$100,000
of customer and employee 
donations for the Australian 
Red Cross Disaster Relief 
and Recovery appeal
Over 
$876,000
donated to Vodafone 
Foundation partners in 2020Reduced fraudulent 
orders by
90%
in first month of 
‘two-way SMS’ 
implementation
Launched Australia’s 1st 
telco brand power by 
100% 
renewable electricity
42%  
female representation 
across the workforce in 
Australia, New Zealand 
and the Philippines
107,500+
Australian lives improved 
through our Foundation 
partnerships during 
2019/20202
1. Based on October-December 2020 data against the same period in the prior year, for iiNet, TPG and Vodafone in aggregate
2. ‘Lives Improved’ comprises ‘direct’ lives improved (the target recipients of the program) and ‘indirect’ lives improved (individuals with a close relationship to the direct beneficiary 
who also experience an ancillary positive effect and those individuals who are employed to deliver or improve the program). This methodology was developed by Vodafone 
Group in collaboration with KPMG.Sustainability Report 202056
Our approach to sustainability
Sustainability governance
Our highest level of responsibility for sustainability sits with 
the TPG Telecom Board, which has overall responsibility 
for strategy, business performance and risk management, 
including in relation to sustainability. The TPG Telecom 
Audit and Risk Committee oversees disclosure by TPG 
Telecom relating to its economic, environmental and 
social sustainability risks and how it manages or intends 
to manage those risks. The TPG Telecom Governance, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committee oversees 
corporate governance.
Our newly formed Sustainability Council is comprised of 
senior leaders from across the TPG Telecom group, with 
strategic insight and influence across key business areas, 
including customer-facing business units, our network 
infrastructure, property and procurement, risk, finance and 
external affairs. This Council will meet on a quarterly basis 
and will be instrumental in developing and endorsing our 
forthcoming sustainability strategy. This Council is Chaired 
by the Group Executive Legal and External Affairs and is 
supported by our Head of Sustainability as Secretariat.
We have also initiated an Environmental Management 
Committee, with senior representation from teams that play 
a critical role in managing our environmental impacts.
Our Head of Sustainability and the Group Executive Legal 
and External Affairs, report to both the Executive Team and 
the Board on sustainability matters at least on a twice-
yearly basis, and more frequently when aspects of the 
sustainability strategy or agenda require specific discussion 
at that level. 
Stakeholder engagement and materiality
We place a strong emphasis on stakeholder engagement, 
recognising that effective engagement is crucial to our 
ongoing success and helping us to remain informed about 
our constantly evolving business context, as well as the 
needs and expectations of those with an interest in, or 
influence on, our business and its performance. We engage 
with our stakeholders through our membership of peak 
bodies and other industry collaborations and through 
individual meetings, as well as conducting research and 
using surveys. 
Based on our ongoing stakeholder engagement, we 
have identified a range of topics which we consider to 
be most material to our business and our stakeholders. 
These topics are reflected in the content of this 
sustainability report. Customer experience
This includes how we meet the needs of our customers 
in terms of connectivity, choice and value, as well as 
how we’ve helped our customers stay connected during 
the bushfires and the difficulties of COVID-19.
Information privacy and security
The arrangements we have in place to maintain the 
privacy and security of our customers’ personal 
information including the changes we’ve made to 
combat identity theft. 
Inclusion and belonging
Our people experience which places a strong emphasis 
on creating an inclusive workplace culture where all of 
our employees are able to be themselves at work and 
supported to be their best. 
Health, safety and wellbeing
The arrangements we have in place to keep our 
employees and contractors safe and well. 
Responsible and ethical business conduct
How we govern our business including the key 
frameworks and policies we have in place to support 
and drive responsible and ethical conduct. 
Climate change
Our understanding and management of climate change 
risks, opportunities and impacts.
Waste management and product stewardship
How we are managing our waste and acting as a 
steward of our products across their lifecycle.
Community investment
Our contribution to the community, leveraging our 
technological capabilities and skills.Sustainability Report 20207
Sustainable Development Goals
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are recognised around the world as a blueprint to achieve 
a better and more sustainable future for all. We are committed to understanding the ways in which our business intersects 
with these goals, and how we can best contribute to their achievement. In this report we have mapped the SDGs to our 
areas of focus as a guide to where we are prioritising our efforts. We will further consider the SDGs as we develop our 
sustainability strategy, so that we can align our resources and attention to those areas of significant societal need. 
The Vodafone Foundation
Our Vodafone Foundation (the Foundation) improves the health and wellbeing of Australians, through technology. Through 
the Foundation, we collaborate with, and provide grant funding to a number of strategic partners, in line with this goal. 
The Foundation also empowers our employees to support our charity partners and charities they are personally passionate 
about, through volunteering, matching staff fundraising and workplace giving.
The Foundation’s Trustee Board is comprised of senior TPG Telecom employees and two independent directors. The Board 
is responsible for the governance and financial management of the Foundation, and ensures that the Foundation delivers 
on its purpose and goals.
Community investment through the Foundation plays an important part in our overall approach to building a sustainable 
business. 1st telco brand 
powered
completely by 
100% 
renewable electricityMore than  30%
reduction in complaints to 
the Telecommunications 
Industry Ombudsman 
(iiNet, TPG and Vodafone)7.4m+
customer 
subscriptions8
Increasing customer connectivity, 
choice and valueSustainability Report 20209
Ten Gigabit Adelaide
In 2018 the City of Adelaide partnered with TPG as 
the ‘Official Network Provider’ to install and operate 
one of the world’s fastest fibre optic networks and 
provide a range of high-performance services for the 
business community. This landmark project represented a significant strategic commitment by the City of 
Adelaide to provide businesses with world-class digital 
infrastructure that will help create jobs and boost the 
local economy.
In October 2020, the Ten Gigabit Adelaide project 
reached its target of connecting 1,000 buildings to 
the network, on time and on budget. The project 
included the installation of 82 kilometres of cable, 
26,000 spliced fibres, 431 new joints and eight 
high-density 10G core sites. 
The transformational network is expected to open up 
significant opportunities for industries such as health, 
education, video and media production, and IT and 
software engineering.
“We are proud to usher Adelaide into a new era of 
connectivity with 1000 buildings now connected to 
the Ten Gigabit Adelaide network – delivered with our 
official network provider TPG Telecom.” 
(Lord Mayor, Sandy Verschoor)Whether at home, at work, or on the move, our customers 
value a telecommunications service which is fast, reliable, 
and cost effective. At the same time, customer use of 
data is rapidly increasing due to the growth of video 
applications, and 5G-enabled devices are expected to be 
in use by over twenty per cent of Australians by the end 
of 2021.1
At an industry level, mobile speeds, capacity and data 
inclusions have increased, while mobile prices have 
decreased, influencing a clear shift in the way consumers 
access the internet. Our customers are concerned less 
about whether their service is delivered over a fixed or 
mobile network. In essence, we are seeing a convergence 
of mobile and fixed services. 
We are also seeing a continuing trend of increased demand 
for choice, flexibility and personalisation of services, 
including services which are environmentally and socially 
responsible, reflecting the values of many of our customers. 
We are well positioned to meet changing customer 
expectations as we realise the network benefits of the 
merger to maximise speed and reliability, and offer 
converged service solutions for our consumer, business and 
government customers. 
At the same time, we are focused on 5G implementation 
– staying at the forefront of technological and societal 
change, and the development of innovative products which 
allow our customers to choose a telecommunications 
service aligned to their individual needs. 
Realising network synergies
Initial priorities as a merged company included the 
integration of TPG spectrum and small cell assets into 
the Vodafone mobile network, delivering greater mobile 
network capacity and a better customer experience. 
1. Internal forecast.Since day one of the merger, we have deployed our 
1800 MHz spectrum to 318 mobile sites to benefit around 
1.8 million Australians. For example, customers in Canberra 
benefitted from a 20 per cent increase in capacity after 
we deployed additional 1800 MHz spectrum to 99 sites, 
and customers in busy areas such as Collins Street and 
Docklands benefitted from better network performance as 
we turned on small cells in the Melbourne central business 
district. We have also worked to leverage the extensive 
TPG fibre network to connect even more Vodafone mobile 
network sites, boosting network performance for more 
customers.
In addition to strengthening our network, we made changes 
to maximise the use of our technology assets for customers 
across our brands, for example migrating around 60 per 
cent of iiNet mobile customers to the Vodafone mobile 
network. 
Going forward, we aim to offer some of our outstanding 
fibre products to more of our customers. For example, 
our Fibre to the Basement (FTTB) network, which delivers 
typical evening speeds of 90 megabits per second, is 
available to almost 3,000 multi-dwelling buildings and 
over 200,000 premises across major metropolitan areas. 
Previously available on TPG and iiNet only, we recently 
launched FTTB products on Internode. Later in 2021, the 
Vodafone brand will also offer FTTB services. 
And for businesses, our Fibre1000 network offers ten 
gigabits per second to 1,000 commercial buildings. We also 
aim to leverage our recently completed rollout of Australia’s 
first city-wide ten gigabit network in partnership with the 
City of Adelaide.10
Delivering Australia’s 5G future 
5G is the next generation of mobile technology. 
With super -fast data speeds and low latency, it has the 
potential to make our lives smarter, safer, and more 
efficient, with exciting opportunities to support innovation 
and improve outcomes in sectors such as healthcare, 
education and agriculture.
In March 2020 we switched on our first 5G sites in 
Parramatta, and are now well progressed with our plan to 
progressively roll out 5G, with customers already able to 
use 5G in parts of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, 
Perth, Canberra and the Gold Coast. 
We are providing 5G network access at no extra charge 
to our customers that have 5G devices, and are aiming 
to cover 85 per cent of the population in Australia’s top 
six cities by the end of 2021. We will also begin to offer 
5G fixed wireless products in the first half of 2021, taking 
our fixed wireless offering to a new level and providing 
customers with further choice.
Enabling the internet of things 
The internet of things (IoT ) extends connectivity beyond 
smartphones and tablets, to objects and equipment such 
as industrial sensors, wearables, medical devices and 
vehicles. Embedded with technology, these devices can 
communicate and interact over the internet. They can also 
be remotely monitored and controlled. 
The worldwide number of IoT devices is projected to grow 
to 43 billion by 2023, an almost threefold increase from 
20181 – all requiring a fast and stable network on which 
to function. In combination with 5G technology, IoT offers 
the opportunity for businesses and governments to realise 
efficiencies and innovate with services and capabilities that 
were never before possible.
We already provide our communications technology to a 
wide range of innovative IoT device manufacturers, creating 
efficiencies for end users, for example, such as energy use, 
water use, and operational productivity. 
Going forward, we intend to further explore the potential 
of our role as an enabler of natural resource efficiency 
and transition to a smarter, more sustainable society, and 
expand our partnerships with customers to support them 
in achieving their sustainability goals.
1. Gartner, 2017, Forecast: Internet of Things — Endpoints and Associated Services, Worldwide, 2017. In: McKinsey, 2019, Growing Opportunities in the Internet of Things. 
 https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/private-equity-and-principal-investors/our-insights/growing-opportunities-in-the-internet-of-things#Enabling and empowering our enterprise and 
government customers
For our small business, enterprise and government 
customers, we are enabling fast and reliable use of cloud-
based technologies such as Internet Protocol (IP ) Voice, 
video conferencing and productivity tools like Microsoft 
Teams through our on-net fibre network along with high 
speed symmetric fibre now available to more than 1.5 million 
businesses nationally with nbn Enterprise Ethernet. 
Every TPG Telecom customer choosing nbn Enterprise 
Ethernet or TPG Fast Fibre receives a Smart Network 
Termination Unit, providing the flexibility to dedicate 
bandwidth to superfast internet, or split their bandwidth 
across data, internet, voice, or cloud services. Frontier, 
our self-service portal, allows our customers to order new 
services, manage existing services, raise service requests, 
and monitor network status. 
Donvale Christian College
In 2020, we partnered with Victoria’s Donvale 
Christian College to meet the school’s brief for a 
cheaper, faster, more sustainable technology solution 
to meet the school’s anticipated future needs—
and securely connect its Donvale and Warrandyte 
campuses.
Our private high-speed fibre connection between 
the campuses on TPG Fibre 1000 and nbn Enterprise 
Ethernet was especially important as COVID-19 
forced schools to deliver on-line learning. It 
seamlessly enabled the school to run bandwidth-
intensive video conferencing and provide access 
to digital content including on-line curriculum. As 
importantly for the school, it facilitated continued 
school connection between teachers, students, 
parents and the broader community. 
A key driver for the school in choosing our solution 
was its flexibility and, in the event of disruption, 
continuous internet access provided by 4G back-up.
Sustainability Report 202011
Enhancing network coverage and resilience for 
rural and regional Australians
We are committed to providing more coverage and choice 
to regional Australians and are proud to have invested more 
than $20 million to build mobile base stations in New South 
Wales, Tasmania, Queensland, Western Australia and 
Victoria, under the Commonwealth Government’s Mobile 
Black Spot Program. Through this program, TPG Telecom 
has delivered approximately 36,600 square kilometres of 
new coverage for regional and rural Australians, extended 
4G services to more than 16,000 additional homes and 
added more than 1,500 kilometres of 4G connectivity along 
regional transport routes.
Network resilience considerations are a fundamental 
part of our mobile network design and construction. 
This year, TPG Telecom has been awarded funding 
under the Commonwealth Government’s Strengthening 
Telecommunications Against Natural Disasters (STAND) 
program to improve Vodafone mobile network resilience 
by deploying additional temporary portable coverage and 
power solutions to sites impacted by natural disasters, 
including bushfires. TPG Telecom has also been awarded 
funding to provide longer lasting battery backup power 
for base stations built under Rounds 1 and 2 of the Mobile 
Black Spot Program.Changing the game through our product 
offerings
The Vodafone brand was transformed this year with a bold 
new identity, ‘You Rule’, reflecting its ongoing commitment 
to ensure that customers are at the heart of everything it 
does, and clearly letting Vodafone customers know that 
they are in control of their plans and services. 
Over the years, Vodafone has developed plans and 
products that reflect consumers’ changing behaviours and 
ensure they are empowered to connect how they want. 
This includes being the first Australian telecommunications 
brand to introduce game-changing offerings such as no 
lock-in contracts and unlimited mobile data plans, with a 
choice of high data speeds. 
Building on our brand promise, and enabling our customers 
to realise the benefits of the merger, we introduced the 
Vodafone Bundle for eligible customers, combining multiple 
mobile SIMS and a discounted NBN plan with our Bundle & 
Save rewards program, with endless data at speeds of up to 
1.5 megabits per second and overall savings to customers 
of up to $222 in the first year. We also introduced Data 
Bank for our prepaid customers on select plans allowing 
customers to save up to 200GB unused data when they 
recharge on their plan before expiry
Enhancing and simplifying the customer 
experience
As consumer trends and COVID-19 continue to change the 
way customers want to interact with us, we are focused 
on transforming our digital infrastructure to enhance and 
simplify the customer experience. 
In 2020, the number of Vodafone customer care enquiries 
that involved web chat increased by more than 75 per cent 
from 2019. Take-up of the MyVodafone app continues 
to increase, with the app now downloaded to more than 
1.6 million active devices.
We refreshed our Vodafone website to improve the 
customer experience, with a particular focus on becoming 
more mobile-friendly. Improvements include enabling 
customers to compare plans more easily and a simplified 
check-out experience. We also launched a new My TPG 
app and an improved iiHelp self-support online tool for 
iiNet customers.
In 2021, we will continue to support the shift towards 
online activity across our brands to give customers more 
choice around how they engage with us and manage 
their account.
12
felix – Australia’s first 
telecommunications brand 
powered by 100 per cent 
renewable electricity 
Responding to the growing demand from our 
customers for a mobile phone service that is simple and 
sustainable, in October we were proud to launch ‘felix’ 
– Australia’s first telco brand powered completely by 
100 per cent renewable electricity. felix was certified as 
a carbon neutral service by the Australian Government’s 
Climate Active initiative. In addition, we have partnered 
with One Tree Planted to plant one tree for every month 
that one of our customers holds an active subscription 
with felix – supporting reforestation initiatives, and 
helping to regenerate our natural environment and 
sequester CO 2 emissions. 
felix offers unlimited data at speeds of up to 
20 megabits per second – great for streaming high 
definition video and music, scrolling and sharing 
to social media, and using cloud storage – offering 
an outstanding customer experience and value for 
customers.
It also offers an easy switching process, with the 
ability to connect with our Australian-based care 
team in moments via live chat, and an entirely digital experience through the felix app, once a customer has 
received their SIM. This reflects a growing preference 
among consumers for a seamless digital interaction, 
removing the need to go to a retail store or call our 
contact centres. 
Excelling in customer satisfaction
For the third year running, iiNet was awarded Best NBN 
Provider for 2020 by leading consumer advocacy group, 
Choice, with an overall score of 79 per cent for speed and 
customer satisfaction. Additionally, iiNet was awarded 
second place in Canstar Blue’s 2020 Best NBN for Business, 
recognised by Canstar Blue as maintaining impressive 
results across most review categories.
Vodafone was awarded first place in Canstar Blue’s 2020 
Best Internet Bundle award. Vodafone NBN was rated best 
for overall satisfaction, as well as for customer service, 
ease of setup, bill and cost clarity and for entertainment 
inclusions. 
In 2020, Canstar Blue announced a number of Ten Year 
Awards as they celebrated ten years of helping Australian 
consumers make better-informed purchase decisions. 
Internode was delighted to receive this award, which 
recognised consistent delivery of outstanding service 
and value to the Australian public, in incredibly competitive 
markets.
These awards are a clear reflection of our dedication to 
providing our customers with the best possible experience. 
Further, our major brands, Vodafone, TPG and iiNet, have 
achieved consistently high Net Promoter Score results 
and all recorded Telecommunication Industry Ombudsman 
(TIO) complaint rates below the industry average in the 
September and December quarters. The individual rate 
for Vodafone is less than half the industry average and the 
reduction for iiNet and TPG against the same period in 
the prior year represents a reduction of over 30 per cent 
overall. This is a result of our continuing efforts to deliver 
a positive customer experience and to reduce the reasons 
for customer complaints.
1. At each date the numbers include subscribers of both VHA and TPG Corporation. Post-paid and pre-paid subscriptions are consumer and business. Fixed broadband 
subscriptions are consumer only (i.e. excluding large corporate customers).
2. Based on ‘Complaints in Context’ data provided by the Communications Alliance.Customer subscriptions1 
CUSTOMER SUBSCRIPTIONS 
(’000 s) 2020 2019
Postpay 3,258 3,416
Prepay (registered base) 1,973 2,518
Mobile virtual network 
operators23 57
Total mobile 5,254 5,991
Fixed broadband 2,167 2,051
 
Complaints lodged with the TIO2 
OCT -DEC 
2020OCT -DEC 
2019
iiNet 5.7 10.4
TPG 3.8 4.6
Vodafone 2.7 2.7
Industry average 7.0 6.9
Sustainability Report 202013Protecting our customers  
and communities 
More than
85%
reduction in 
fraudulent ports90%
reduction in 
fraudulent orders14
Sustainability Report 202015
As a major telecommunications company we have an 
important role to play in protecting our customers and 
communities from associated risks, and in particular 
from the negative impacts of misuse and abuse of 
telecommunications services. We work actively with our 
industry partners to understand these risks and take action, 
individually and collaboratively to keep our customers and 
communities safe from harm. 
Acting to reduce scam calls
Our society has transformed the way that it communicates 
and transacts, relying significantly on digital and 
telecommunications services. For example, only around 
27 cent of Australians still use cash for payments, down 
from 61 per cent in 20071. At the same time, scammers 
have proliferated, taking advantage of the digital world 
and harming individuals for financial gain. 
In 2020, Australians lost more than $175 million to scams 
with scam calls accounting for 47 per cent of scams, and 
causing losses of more than $48 million2. 
We are determined to play our part in protecting people 
from scams. In recent years we have worked actively with 
other industry participants through the Communications 
Alliance, as a member of the Scam Telecommunications 
Action Taskforce, as well as with the Australian 
Communications and Media Authority (ACMA). Importantly, 
in December 2020, this resulted in the development and 
launch of the Reducing Scam Calls Code – new rules 
which require us and other telecommunications operators 
to detect, trace and block scam calls. As an industry, we 
have also been successfully piloting a range of initiatives, 
blocking over 30 million scam calls across 12 months prior 
to the launch of the Reducing Scam Calls Code. Our next 
priority is working on a new industry code to combat 
SMS scams.
Combatting identity theft and fraud
Identity theft is one of the most prevalent types of crime in 
Australia, affecting millions of individuals, businesses and 
government agencies. A survey of nearly 10,000 people by 
the Australian Institute of Criminology found that one in four 
Australians reported having been a victim of identity crime 
at some point in their lives3. Unfortunately, mobile services 
have become an important tool used in identity crime – 
with scammers porting mobile numbers to other providers, 
then using these new accounts to authorise bank transfers 
and steal money. The Australian Institute of Criminology 
found that incidents where misuse of personal information 
involved the opening of a mobile phone account, increased 
57 per cent from 2018 to 2019.4
1. J Caddy, L Delaney, C Fisher and C Noone, Consumer Payment Behaviour in Australia, 2020, RBA Bulletin March https://www.rba.gov.au/publications/bulletin/2020/mar/
consumer-payment-behaviour-in-australia.html
2. https://www.scamwatch.gov.au/scam-statistics?scamid=all&date=2020
3. Australian Institute of Criminology, 2019, Identity crime and misuse in Australia: Results of the 2020 online survey. At: https://www.aic.gov.au/publications/sr/sr27
4. Ibid. 
5. NSW Department of Communities and Justice, 2020, NSW Government launches campaign to help stop image-based abuse. At: https://www.dcj.nsw.gov.au/news-and-media/
media-releases/nsw-government-launches-campaign-to-help-stop-image-based-abuseWe’re working hard to combat identify theft through a 
range of initiatives. Vodafone was the first Australian 
telecommunications operator to send alerts to customers 
warning of an impending port of their number, which 
commenced in 2012. More recently, Vodafone led the 
industry, through the Communications Alliance, to develop 
a new industry guideline process for pre-port verification 
whereby an SMS is sent to validate the port of a mobile 
number before the port can proceed. Vodafone introduced 
this capability in June 2019 based on a guideline we 
developed working with the industry. The industry guideline 
has since formed the basis of an Industry Standard 
applicable to all mobile service providers from early 
2020. Since implementation, we have seen a more than 
85 per cent reduction in fraudulent ports along with a large 
reduction in banking fraud and other types of fraud.
In 2020, we developed new standards for inbound customer 
authentication and outbound customer communication, 
requiring two factor authentication for key transactions, and 
raising awareness among our customers that we would not 
ask for, and they should not disclose, personal identification 
information to an unknown party. We also introduced a new 
two-way SMS arrangement requiring the account holder to 
verify all new product orders, reducing fraudulent orders by 
90 per cent in the first month of implementation.
For customers who do fall victim to identity crime involving 
their mobile account, we have a specialist team in Hobart 
that supports them with aspects of reporting and recovery. 
Supporting digital safety
As our digital world has grown, sadly so too has misuse 
of the internet, including posting and sharing of offensive, 
abusive and abhorrent content. Key issues include the 
rise of image-based abuse – with reports to the eSafety 
Commissioner increasing by 172 per cent between March 
and September 2020 as compared to the same period 
in 20195. The internet can also be a vehicle for the rapid 
sharing of other harmful content, such as extreme violence 
and terrorism.
More generally, the safety of children online is a pressing 
issue, with huge numbers of young people using the 
internet and social media and exposed to risks of abuse and 
cyber-bullying. 
As a telecommunications company, we have a responsibility 
to play our part in protecting our customers to the extent 
possible using the controls we have available, as well as 
supporting our customers to use the internet as safely 
as possible.16
At the time of the 2019 terrorist event in Christchurch, 
New Zealand, Vodafone led the telecommunications 
industry in blocking access to abhorrent violent material. 
Working together with Vodafone New Zealand we assisted 
in keeping other service providers and government 
agencies updated with details of the sites that were 
distributing video or other material related to the event. 
The processes implemented by Vodafone and other major 
providers later led to a legislated protocol for responding 
to an ‘online crisis event’, developed by Australia’s eSafety 
Commissioner and the Communications Alliance, with our 
active participation.
On an ongoing basis, we actively collaborate with 
authorities including the eSafety Commissioner, the 
ACMA, and the Australian Federal Police, to block websites 
associated with abhorrent, violent, seriously harmful and 
criminal activity. 
We also provide information on our website to help 
consumers understand the steps they can take to stay safe 
online, including responsible parenting in a digital world, 
and have partnered with Norton™ enabling Vodafone 
customer access to a range of subscription-based Norton™ 
digital security and safety products. 
Maintaining information privacy 
We need to collect some personal information from our 
customers in order to provide products and services. 
We appreciate the trust that our customers place in us 
and have implemented comprehensive arrangements to 
keep their information protected. Our Privacy Policy is 
available on our website. It outlines how we collect, store, 
use and disclose personal information, and is aligned 
with our obligations under the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and 
the Telecommunications Act 1997 (Cth). Privacy and the 
confidentiality of information is a core component of our 
Code of Conduct. We only collect personal information 
which is necessary and relevant to the work we are doing. 
We protect the content of communications and the personal 
information we hold, we manage information carefully, and 
we take steps to ensure its integrity. 
A comprehensive privacy program is in place which 
includes dedicated privacy specialists, privacy governance 
arrangements, policies, and physical and technical controls, 
as well as a detailed employee privacy training and 
awareness framework. The concept of ‘privacy by design’ 
is embedded across the organisation, with protection built 
into products, systems and services. Projects which involve 
handling of personal information pass through privacy 
assessments to review privacy risks associated with any 
proposed product or service. Maintaining information security 
Cybersecurity, or measures to protect the confidentiality, 
integrity and availability of systems and information, is an 
issue of significant and growing public concern as more 
of our nation’s critical infrastructure comes online, with 
potential vulnerability to digital attacks and data breaches. 
Cybersecurity plays an essential role in protecting our 
privacy, rights, freedoms and safety – and is an issue we 
take very seriously. 
We have a comprehensive cybersecurity program in place 
which supports us in providing a safe and secure service 
to our customers and the broader community. This includes 
a comprehensive set of policies, standards and guidelines, 
as well as an established Security Management Framework 
to monitor, identify and remediate any vulnerabilities that 
might exist in our infrastructure and systems. We conduct 
security awareness programs and security training for 
our employees and partners, relevant to their roles and 
access levels.
We maintain compliance with all relevant regulatory 
requirements, including those established through the 
Telecommunications Sector Security Reforms and the 
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards. 
We conduct regular penetration testing activities 
throughout the year and have an advanced threat protection 
platform which is used to proactively search for indicators 
of compromise.
Our Cyber Defence and Response Centre delivers 
monitoring, analysis and response services on a 24/7 basis, 
every day of the year, to help us in identifying incidents 
in a timely manner. We also have established incident 
management processes which guide us in cybersecurity 
incident management. 
We maintain a range of formal partnerships to assist in 
the event of a cyber breach and to assist with managing 
communications to law enforcement, government agencies 
and the media. We are also a member of the Joint Cyber 
Security Centre – a platform for collaboration on national 
threat intelligence along with various government agencies 
and industry partners.Sustainability Report 202017
Ensuring health of local communities
Mobile phone networks and other wireless communications 
sources emit low-level radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic 
energy (EME). Some members of the public have raised 
concerns about the effects of EME, and have escalated 
these concerns with the roll-out of 5G.
At TPG Telecom we operate strictly within the limits set 
by the Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety 
Agency (ARPANSA) safety standard. These limits have been 
set well below levels at which harm to people may occur. 
At exposure levels below these limits, as assessed 
by ARPANSA, the World Health Organization and the 
International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation 
Protection, there is no established scientific evidence to 
support the potential for adverse health effects. 
We are committed to the health and safety of the 
communities in which we operate and support independent 
research on mobiles and health. We contribute to the 
Australian Government’s EME research program, established 
in 1999, through a carrier licence levy. 
In 2020, with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, some 
members of the public were concerned about whether 
there could be a link between RF EME and vulnerability 
to COVID-19. These concerns are not supported by any 
credible scientific evidence. Unfortunately, misinformation 
on this issue was shared widely, including on social media. 
We have published information on our website to help the 
public understand this issue and address concerns based 
on scientific evidence.Supporting victims of domestic 
and family violence
We want to help our customers and employees who 
are experiencing domestic and family violence. And we 
understand that in many domestic and family violence 
situations, having access to safe communications is critical. 
Based on our experience, and consultation with domestic 
and family violence experts, we know that common 
problems for victims are: incurring additional debt through 
unauthorised use of their mobile phone account by the 
perpetrato; and attempts by the perpetrator to cut-off the 
victim’s mobile phone service (particularly where the victim 
is not the account holder).
We help our customers at a practical level in a range of 
ways, including investigating unwelcome calls or messages, 
providing financial hardship support, and safely transferring 
their mobile number from another account holder into their 
own name. 
For our employees who are experiencing family and 
domestic violence, we offer ten days per year of family and 
domestic violence leave, allowing them the time and space 
to take necessary steps towards safety and recovery. 
At an industry level we chair the Domestic and Family 
Violence Working Group of the Communications Alliance, 
which is leading the industry on broadening capability to 
support customers and a common approach to solutions 
and training. In 2018, we led the development of the 
Assisting Customers Experiencing Domestic and Family 
Violence Industry Guideline, through the Communications 
Alliance. This guideline will be reviewed in 2021, exploring 
ways to further improve support arrangements. 
The Vodafone Foundation also supports Ask Izzy, a platform 
powered by Infoxchange, which connects people in need 
with support services near them. Ask Izzy is free-rated on 
the Vodafone mobile network (see page 33 of this report for 
more information).
Helping our customers and 
communities in times of need 
More than 
>223k customers 
in financial difficulty supported to 
stay connected during COVID-191
1. This includes customers on our Stay Connected plan, customers who requested financial hardship 
arrangements, and customers who received other payment arrangements and extensions since the 
start of COVID-19.Matched 
$100,000
of customer and employee 
donations for the Australian 
Red Cross Disaster Relief and 
Recovery appeal18
As a major telecommunications services provider, it is 
vital that we have arrangements in place to respond to 
emergencies and major incidents as quickly and effectively 
as possible. We have in place a Business Continuity 
Management Framework which is aligned with accepted 
international standards. This includes processes and 
requirements for business impact assessments, risk 
assessments, and business continuity strategies and 
plans which together cover both preventative measures 
as well as actions to be taken to respond to and recover 
from an incident. 
Responding to the bushfires
We recognise the crucial role we play in helping our 
customers and communities respond to and recover from 
natural disasters. This year, during the devastating bushfire 
season, our Vodafone technology and operations teams 
worked around the clock with emergency services and 
relevant agencies to restore services following power 
outages and extensive damage to telecommunications 
infrastructure in parts of NSW and Victoria. 
We offered a range of support measures for frontline 
volunteers and affected customers including crediting extra 
data to the accounts of customers in affected postcodes 
and offering two-months free mobile service to volunteer 
firefighters, frontline State Emergency Services personnel 
and wildlife rescue volunteers, to show our gratitude for 
those who gave their time and risked their lives to protect 
communities, homes and wildlife across Australia. 
For those who suffered the tragedy of losing their homes, 
irrespective of whether they were a Vodafone customer, we 
offered a free Vodafone 4G Pocket WiFi Modem and three 
months’ free mobile broadband service, enabling those 
affected to access the internet and continue to connect 
with their loved ones. 
Recognising the importance of staying in touch and 
accessing emergency services information, Vodafone 
provided free access to a range of emergency services 
websites as well as increased data allowances for those 
in bushfire affected areas. We also temporarily suspended 
collections activity to assist customers who were impacted 
financially and offered additional extended support through 
our financial hardship assistance program.
Reflecting the concern of all of our employees for those 
affected, we established a donation program with the Red 
Cross, matching $100,000 of customer and employee 
donations dollar for dollar, raising $200,000 for the 
Australian Red Cross Disaster Relief and Recovery appeal. 
Going forward, in addition to our operational response and 
the support we provide to our customers, we will continue 
to advocate for domestic roaming during emergency 
situations, or a government-funded Emergency Cell 
Broadcast Capability. This would enable people to receive 
an emergency alert even where there is no mobile coverage 
from their provider. We will also continue to actively 
participate in discussions towards a common system for 
network data sharing with jurisdictions to assist in disaster 
prevention and recovery. 
1. Australian Broadband Advisory Council, Nov 2020, Riding the Digital Wave: Report on COVID-19 Trends and Forward Work Program.Responding to COVID-19
In 2020, the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic led to a rapid 
and unprecedented change in the way our customers and 
communities use telecommunications, as a large proportion 
of Australia’s workforce moved to remote working and 
many people lived under restrictions which left them 
unable to travel to see family and friends. At the same time, 
many of our customers experienced financial difficulty as 
a result of lost income. We played a crucial role in helping 
individuals, families and businesses stay connected and 
supporting them in the face of financial pressure.
During the course of the pandemic we introduced a 
range of support measures for Vodafone customers. 
These included the provision of additional data and reduced 
costs for customers not on endless data plans and an 
extension of unlimited standard national calls across our 
customer base, supporting customers at home to continue 
working, look for work, learn, and connect with family 
and friends online without the need to worry about their 
phone bill. We free-rated a range of government websites, 
including Federal and State health websites, so that all 
Vodafone customers could access the latest, essential 
information at no cost. We also supported low-income 
families through NBN Co’s Education Assistance Package 
so school-aged children could access home schooling.
Recognising the financial difficulty our customers may be 
experiencing, we removed all late payment fees, ceased 
external debt recovery actions and avoided suspending 
services for an initial six-week period, as well as an 
additional four week period for Victorian customers 
during the second lockdown. We brought our customer 
care hardship functions onshore, increased resourcing 
to meet the demand for assistance, and updated our 
communications to our customers on the support available. 
For those customers requesting hardship assistance, we 
waived or provided credit for monthly access fees. We also 
introduced a temporary $10 per month Stay Connected 
Cap Plan to help ease the financial pressure for those 
customers while staying connected to the people and 
services they needed. These support options continue 
today for customers who qualify for financial assistance 
under our ongoing hardship program. 
As a ‘thank you’ to our frontline healthcare workers 
working in extraordinarily challenging conditions as they 
cared for Australians in need, we offered registered health 
practitioners a two-month credit on their monthly postpaid 
access fee or prepaid recharge.
Looking to the future, the telecommunications sector 
can play an important role in the social and economic 
recovery from COVID-19, building on the transformation 
which has already occurred as businesses have accelerated 
their digitisation capabilities. A report from the Australian 
Broadband Advisory Council highlights a range of 
opportunities to improve economic productivity and online 
participation of businesses, including small to medium sized 
businesses, and more vulnerable community groups1. We will 
explore these themes and opportunities as we develop our 
forthcoming sustainability strategy, to be launched in 2021.
Sustainability Report 202019Supporting inclusion, belonging 
and wellbeing of our people20
42%
female representation in 
the workforce in Australia, 
New Zealand and the 
Philippines71
girls participated in  
Dream Connection 
STEM program80
of our employees marched 
to demonstrate their support 
and to celebrate the LGBT+ 
communityInclusion and belonging
At TPG Telecom we believe that everyone should feel 
comfortable in bringing their whole selves to work. We also 
recognise the benefits that come from an inclusive culture 
and a focus on the wellbeing of our employees, including 
more engaged employees, better customer service, more 
innovation, collaboration and better business performance.
We have a dedicated Head of Inclusion and Belonging to 
promote our inclusive culture and ensure that we have 
a strategy to bring this to life within our organisation. 
Our strategy places an emphasis on gender equality 
and inclusivity for LGBTQI+ and other communities. 
This includes initiatives which aim to address issues beyond 
our workforce, promoting the participation of women, and 
indigenous youth, in technology futures, ultimately growing 
the pipeline of talented youth from which the business can 
benefit in the future.
Moving forward, we will continue to enhance our 
performance on inclusivity within our workforce, including 
through proactive initiatives across a broader range of 
groups, and aim to explore new initiatives and partnerships 
which leverage our role as a telecommunications provider 
in helping to address inclusivity and belonging within the 
wider Australian community. 
Supporting financial independence of our 
female workforce 
We acknowledge the imbalance of superannuation 
between women and men. According to analysis using the 
Treasury’s Model of Australian Retirement Incomes and 
Assets (MARIA), in 2020, the average balance at retirement 
for women was expected to be around 30 per cent less 
than men1. Factors such as the gender pay gap in the 
Australian workforce, women generally working in lower 
paid occupations, women taking more time out of the paid 
workforce than their male counterparts and having a higher 
likelihood of working casually or part time, adversely affect 
women’s superannuation balances – leaving them with less 
to live on during retirement. 
Vodafone has been helping to address this inequality 
since 2017 through its Super Bump program for female 
employees, which provides two extra payments of 
$250 per year for female employees who have been with 
the company for more than 12 months, as a practical step 
towards more financial independence for women. In 2021, 
we plan to extend this benefit across our TPG Telecom 
workforce in Australia. 
1. Trinh et al (2019) Superannuation Balances at Retirement. At: http://research.treasury.gov.au/sites/research.treasury.gov.au/files/2019-11/Superannuation%20balances%20
at%20retirement.docxSupporting our working parents and carers
We aim to ensure our employees are supported throughout 
their career as a working parent or carer at TPG Telecom 
and acknowledge the importance of parental and caring 
responsibilities. We also recognise the challenges of 
returning to work after a period of parental leave. 
One example of the practical support we provide, is our 
‘4 for 5’ benefit for full-time permanent Australia employees 
who are returning from a period of parental leave. 
This benefit assists employees to manage their transition 
back to work by providing greater flexibility without 
financial detriment during their return period. Eligible 
employees can work four days per week and be paid for 
five days for the first six months of returning to work from 
Primary Carer parental leave. In 2021, we plan to extend this 
benefit across our TPG Telecom workforce in Australia.
Supporting our LGBTQI+ employees
We are proud of our active Pride Network ‘Connect’, which 
runs a variety of programs in support of our LGBTQI+ 
employees throughout the year. Vodafone is a Major Partner 
and has been the Official and Exclusive Mobile Services 
Sponsor of the Sydney Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras for 
2019, 2020 and 2021. In 2020, 80 of our employees 
marched to demonstrate their support and to celebrate 
LGBTQI+ communities. As part of Mardi Gras, Vodafone 
participated in Fair Day – a landmark of the festival where 
LGBTQI+ communities shine brightly together, with all 
of our employees encouraged to show their support. 
We also launched a ‘Be the One’ campaign focusing on the 
challenges of LGBTQI+ people, including impacts on mental 
health, and sharing the message that every person has the 
potential to ‘be the one’ that makes a big difference to 
someone else’s life by showing their support.
We made more than 1,000 red ribbons and raised over 
$13,000 in donations for our partner Bobby Goldsmith 
Foundation in support of their World Aids Day appeal.
Sustainability Report 202021Promoting science, technology, engineering 
and maths (STEM) careers for Indigenous, 
female youth
Building on our earlier success in creating an award 
winning, technology-centric STEM program for girls in 
Sydney schools, during 2020 we were proud to launch 
a new program – Dream Connection – in partnership 
with Goanna Solutions. Goanna Solutions is committed 
to working in collaboration with government, academia 
and industry partners to identify and support STEM 
opportunities for Indigenous students to address the issue 
of exclusion from emerging opportunities in STEM fields.
The Dream Connection program was conceived and co-
designed through meaningful, thoughtful engagement of 
TPG Telecom with the First Nations community in order to 
inspire young Indigenous women in high school to consider 
a career in STEM. The theme of the program is ‘connection’ 
- encompassing connections between ancient Indigenous 
science and modern science, elders and young people 
in community, STEM and storytelling, and the vital need 
for the value of these connections to be recognised and 
appreciated by the broader society. The program includes 
female technology employees from TPG Telecom, and 
strong Indigenous role models, speaking with students. 
In its inaugural year, 71 girls from years 7-10 across nine 
schools have participated in the program, with extremely 
positive feedback.
“ Just to let you know all the kids and staff are so in love 
with the program. It has been the buzz of the school”. 
Shallan Foster, Indigenous Engagement Officer, 
Matraville High School .
Setting the direction on workforce culture
One of the key priorities following our merger was 
to integrate our legacy organisations from a people 
perspective, and to determine the workforce culture that 
we want for our combined organisation. We conducted 
a Ways of Working Survey, and a range of employee 
interviews, providing a pulse check of employee views and expectations on matters related to culture and employee 
experience. The results of this survey demonstrated a 
shared focus on the customer, adaptability to change, and 
passion for work, right across our new business. It also 
highlighted opportunities for alignment and focus which 
will guide our people integration plans moving forward, 
including a focus on consistency of employee experience, 
promoting collaboration, and streamlining of processes to 
create better ways of working.
Promoting flexible working and employee 
wellbeing
Studies have shown that employees with greater flexibility 
choices at work are more engaged, have lower levels of 
absenteeism and feel a greater sense of wellbeing at work 
and at home. Organisations that want to attract and retain 
high-performing employees understand the benefits of 
workplace flexibility – increasing employee effectiveness 
and productivity.
Our Way We Work Framework sets out our aim to work 
flexibly, collaboratively and creatively to deliver exceptional 
and innovative solutions for our customers, supported by 
our technology, our work environment and our culture. 
Flexible working will continue to form a fundamental part 
of our employee experience and workforce culture as an 
integrated organisation. Our Flexible Working Policy offers a 
range of formal and informal working options to employees 
and managers, supported by employee resources. We also 
promote flexible working through the My One Thing 
campaign which encourages employees to identify one 
priority outside of work that they will make time for, so as to 
support a better balance between work and home life. 
Within our Vodafone operations, we take a holistic 
approach to promoting employee wellbeing – with support 
and guidance on digital balance, emotional and mental 
wellbeing, connections and community, financial wellbeing, 
purpose and growth, and physical wellbeing. We encourage 
our employees to be proactive about their wellbeing so 
that they can be their best selves for their family, friends, 
colleagues and customers. 
22
We offer free and confidential services to our employees 
and their immediate family members through our Employee 
Assistance Provider, Benestar. This includes confidential 
counselling, nutritional advice, financial advice, legal advice, 
and health and wellbeing resources, as well as a service 
for managers seeking advice. Within our Manila customer 
care sites, we have nurses available to attend to employees 
immediately and on site, making it easier to get general 
health advice and medical treatment.
Focusing on occupational health and safety
TPG Telecom manages varied levels of inherent risk within 
our occupational health, safety and wellbeing management 
system. These risks are both direct and indirect in nature 
and include inappropriate behaviour towards front line staff 
by customers in our retail stores, risks during construction 
and maintenance activities, particularly during the 
deployment of 5G, and employee wellbeing. We adopt a 
risk-based approach to actively monitoring and managing 
our obligations and are aware that any failure to manage 
these risks could cause harm to our people, partners or 
members of the public. 
2. TPG Telecom employees only.
3. TPG Telecom employees and contractors while performing work for TPG Telecom.During 2020 we faced new challenges including 
our ongoing response to COVID-19 and support for 
our employees and customers through the pandemic, 
managing multiple safety management systems, and 
supporting our communities through the 2019/2020 
summer bushfire season. 
We have commenced the integration of our workplace 
health and safety management systems. This has included 
establishment of combined governance arrangements 
including an updated Workplace Health and Safety Policy, 
due diligence framework, safety committees, and workplace 
health and safety reporting. In addition, our fibre operations 
department has successfully transitioned its certification 
against the AS/NZ 4801:2001 Occupational Health 
and Safety Management Systems standard to the ISO 
45001:2018 standard. Progress on integration is reported 
to the Executive Team on a quarterly basis.
During the period since the merger, TPG Telecom has an 
injury frequency rate of 0.182. There were zero fatalities 
for the reporting year across the TPG Telecom group of 
companies3. 
Covid-19 Response for our Workforce 
The safety and wellbeing of our employees has been 
a top priority as we have supported our employees 
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. At all times we 
have kept our employees regularly informed of changes 
impacting them or the business. We have enabled 
over 700 Australian office-based employees to work 
from home in 2020 and will continue to support this 
initiative during 2021. We have put in place COVIDSafe 
plans for our office, retail, contact centre and network 
locations, including additional protocols upon entry, 
increased cleaning regimes, capacity limits, provision of 
personal protective equipment such as masks, sanitiser 
and alcohol wipes, and signage for social distancing 
and hygiene. We have also provided our employees 
with access to a wide range of learning material 
and seminars to help support their mental health 
and wellbeing.
Within Vodafone, we also launched a COVIDSafe 
Workplace from Facebook page to connect with our 
employees. Through this platform, we ran a wellness 
campaign involving five days of initiatives, seminars, 
challenges, and key messages from around the business 
focusing on body and mind. We also had several 
keynote speakers, including professional racing driver 
Jamie Whincup and Australian international cricketer 
Steve Smith, providing advice on how to keep fit while 
in isolation as well as live sessions with our Executives 
during the lockdown.
Sustainability Report 202023We will continue to evolve our approach to occupational 
health and safety in 2021 as we further embed our 
businesses with a consistent approach to systems, 
monitoring and compliance.
Employee numbers1
FEMALE 2020
18-27 787
28-37 1,146
38-47 448
48-57 106
58-67 22
68-77 3
Female total 2,512
MALE
18-27 699
28-37 1,338
38-47 978
48-57 342
58-67 100
68-77 6
Male total 3,463
Overall total 5,975
1. This data measures headcount based on permanent employees and fixed term 
contractors, full-time and part time in Australia, New Zealand and the Philippines.
24
 Aligning to a pathway 
of green growth 
More than
5% 
reduction in GHG 
emissions within 
Vodafone business1 
1. Based on scope 1 and scope 2 emissions for the reporting period from 1 June to 30 June.
Sustainability Report 202025
Launched Australia’s 
1st telco brand power by
100%  
renewable electricityCommitted to powering 
our organisation by 
100%  
renewable electricity 
by 2025We are committed to managing the environmental impact of 
our business activities responsibly, and doing what we can 
to tread lightly on the planet, particularly as our business 
grows. As a major telecommunications services provider, 
our approach to environmental management focuses on 
our two most material environmental impacts – climate 
change and waste.
Tackling climate change
Globally, although the telecommunications sector accounts 
for only around 1.4 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions, 
this figure could grow to around 14 per cent by 2040 – 
half the level of the entire transport sector1. This increase 
will be driven to a large extent by the projected increase 
in demand for data, and its associated energy use. 
However, the application of 5G in mobile network enabled 
technologies offers enormous potential to help avoid 
emissions through smarter cities, transport, energy, 
buildings, agriculture and other industries. A 2019 study 
by the GSMA estimated that avoided emissions enabled by 
mobile communications technologies may be approximately 
ten times greater than the emissions of the mobile sector2. 
1. Macquarie, 2020, The Opportunity for Telcos to Act on Climate. At https://www.macquarie.com/assets/macq/perspectives/macquarie-the-opportunity-for-telcos-to-act-on-
climate.pdf
2. GSMA, 2019, The Enablement Effect. At https://www.gsma.com/betterfuture/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/GSMA_Enablement_Effect.pdfTPG Telecom recognises the threat of global climate 
change and is working towards aligning our business with 
the aims of the Paris Agreement. This includes reducing 
our emissions to help mitigate climate change, using our 
technologies to help reduce emissions within our wider 
society, understanding and building resilience to climate 
impacts, and being transparent in our disclosure of climate 
impacts, risks and opportunities. We will also work to bring 
our future reports in line with the requirements of the 
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. 
In October 2020, we launched felix – Australia’s first 
telecommunications brand powered by 100% renewable 
electricity. In March 2021 we were proud to extend 
this across our organisation, committing to power our 
organisation with 100% renewable electricity by 2025. 
This builds upon the work we’ve done to reduce energy 
use across our networks over a number of years, with 
a particular focus on our data centres and mobile base 
stations. 
Energy efficiency in our data centres 
Across our Vodafone mobile network, over the past 
six years we have replaced older Uninterrupted Power 
Supply (UPS) with more efficient equipment, and 
implemented direct current power systems, across all 
of our data centres (typically delivering approximately 
2-3 per cent energy savings). Where it is technically 
feasible to do so, we have implemented other measures 
including the replacement of air conditioning chillers 
with Computer Room Air Conditioning units (typically 
delivering an estimated 25 per cent energy saving), cold 
aisle rack containment, power factor correction, and 
installation of Data Centre Infrastructure Management 
(DCIM) systems. 
A similar program of data centre energy efficiency has 
been in place across our fibre networks. In 2020, this 
included replacement of UPS across eight sites. In our 
Dryburgh, NSW site alone we achieved savings of over 
50,000 kilowatt hours per month from upgrades to 
UPS. We continued to implement hot and cold aisle rack 
containment as standard practice for new rack rows, 
with installations at five sites in 2020. This included 
all four data halls at London Road, Adelaide, achieving 
savings of approximately 60,000 kilowatt hours per 
month. Other measures have included free cooling, 
power factor correction, installation of DCIM systems, 
air conditioning management, and replacement of 
cooling towers for closed-loop chillers. We are also 
identifying opportunities to consolidate data centres 
for greater efficiency in our use of infrastructure and 
energy for data processing and storage .
Data centre at Glebe, NSW.26
Sustainability Report 202027
Energy efficiency at our mobile 
base stations 
ZonecoolTM shelter in use on site.
We have implemented a range of design solutions to 
improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions associated with our mobile base 
stations, over recent years.
This includes free cooling across all base stations 
where practical (approximately 95 per cent of our 
network), significantly reducing the requirement 
for air conditioning. For example, at our Dean Park, 
NSW site, we saw a 90 per cent reduction in daily 
air conditioning use following the upgrade. We have 
seen reductions of close to 70 per cent daily air 
conditioning use, on average where this solution 
has been implemented. 
In partnership with ICS Industries, we contributed 
funding which supported the development of 
the Zonecool™ shelter – a more efficient and 
cost-effective shelter solution than traditional 
air conditioning and fans, with high capacity 
racking enabling optimal use of space for future 
technologies. Testing at a Zonecool™ shelter site 
in Kingsbury, Melbourne showed that even on days 
where external temperatures exceeded 43 degrees, 
the ZonecoolTM shelter was able to maintain the 
required equipment temperatures without the use 
of air conditioning, resulting in substantial energy 
and cost savings. The ZonecoolTM solution was 
acknowledged as a short-listed finalist in the 2017 
ACOMM awards for Innovation. 
We have established reference site designs that 
require our vendors to design equipment for the 
outside location of shelters wherever practical, 
reducing the need for air conditioning. This applies 
to all of our sites as we upgrade to 5G.
We are also well advanced in the roll-out of smart 
meters, enabling us to better understand our energy 
profile and further explore potential energy efficiency 
opportunities. Installed solar power at our 
data centres 
Solar power on-site at Glebe, NSW.
In December 2017, we commissioned a 100 kilowatt 
solar power array at Labrador Mobile Telephone 
Exchange in Queensland, in partnership with Planet 
Ark Power.
The facility has performed in line with expectations, 
replacing 8 per cent of grid power consumption on 
average per month and is on track for a payback 
period of approximately three years.
We have also installed a 100 kilowatt solar power 
system our data centre in Glebe, NSW.
Our fibre operations department has attained ISO 
14001:2015 International Standard for Environmental 
Management Systems.
We measure and report on our scope 1 and scope 2 
greenhouse gas emissions in our Vodafone operations in 
line with our requirements under the National Greenhouse 
and Energy Reporting Act (2007) (Cth) and in 2020 we 
achieved a reduction of more than 5 per cent against the 
previous reporting year. In the next reporting year, we will 
integrate emissions measurement and reporting across  
TPG Telecom and will start to measure our scope 3 
emissions as we work towards setting a science-based 
target for emissions reduction. 
We will also explore the potential for strategies and 
partnerships with our customers to enable smarter ways of 
working using mobile technology – increasing efficiency 
and supporting behaviour change to reduce carbon 
emissions across the Australian economy. 28
Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions – Vodafone
ENERGY USE (GJ) 2019 /20 2018 /19 2017 /18 2016 /17 2015 /16
Network 619,973 630,682 635,925 624,626 595,051
Retail 7,185 8,488 8,300 8,506 6,997
Corporate 6,485 7,229 8,385 9,405 11,477
MTX / switch 45,280 52,892 67,910 83,407 89,528
Data centres 59,425 59,420 63,151 69,970 83,438
Paging 827 985 901 980 1,322
Total 739,175 759,696 784,572 796,894 787,813
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (T CO 2-E)
Scope 1 382 39 37 92 88
Scope 2 162,620 173,063 178,686 184,497 185,612
Total CO 2-e(tonnes) 163,002 173,102 178,723 184,589 185,700
Solar power on-site at Labrador, Queensland.Sustainability Report 202029
Managing our waste and product stewardship
Key waste streams for the telecommunications sector 
include packaging and e-waste. We understand our 
responsibility to manage our waste and to act as 
responsible product stewards – working with our partners to 
manage the impacts of our products across their lifecycle. 
Our packaging waste relates to the use of materials for 
packaging SIMs, accessories, devices, and for logistics 
transportation. TPG Telecom is a member of the Australian 
Packaging Covenant Organisation (APCO), a not for profit 
organisation that works with businesses and government 
to co-regulate the environmental impact of packaging in 
Australian communities. As such, we have a responsibility 
to follow the APCO guidelines and play our part in meeting 
Australia’s 2025 packaging targets. During 2020, we 
launched half-sized SIM punch outs – reducing future 
plastic use by 50 per cent for our SIMs. In 2019, we worked 
with our logistics vendor to reduce the size of the cartons 
to better fit non-standard sized products like Apple 
Watches and our tablet range.
E-waste is the fastest growing waste stream globally, 
and in Australia, with data from the Australian Bureau of 
Statistics suggesting it is growing at three times the rate 
of general waste. Mobile devices are a contributor to this 
waste stream. TPG Telecom is a member of Mobile Muster 
– the government accredited product stewardship program 
funded voluntarily by the mobile telecommunications 
industry, and we play a role in reducing mobile waste 
through in-store collection. In 2020, we collected 7,000 
kg of mobile phone components for recycling by Mobile 
Muster. As an industry, through Mobile Muster, we are 
aiming to ensure mobile phone recycling is accessible 
to our customers and educate them on how and why to 
recycle them when they come to the end of their useful 
life. In the coming year, we are aiming to work with Mobile 
Muster on communication campaigns to increase the 
volume of waste collections and will be participating in a trial related to the collection and recycling of other 
electronic items. 
Total Mobile Phone Component Mobile Muster 
Collections
2020 2019 2018
Mobile phone components1 
collected (kg) 7,000 14,281 7,866
1. Mobile phone components includes handsets, batteries, charges and accessories. 
We also seek to manage the environmental impacts of 
our corporate offices and are members of City Switch 
– a leading Australian sustainability program which 
supports office-based businesses to improve their energy 
and waste efficiency. We’ve implemented a range of 
initiatives across our office portfolio including full roll-out 
of recycling options for paper, card, plastics, metal and 
printer cartridges across our Vodafone corporate offices, 
and battery and express post recycling in our TPG Telecom 
head office. 
Waste (metric tonnes) total for all Vodafone office 
locations 
2020 2019 2018
General waste 10.47 21.31 19.92
Co-mingled 3.16 9.06 5.41
Organic 0.43 1.08 1.75
Paper 2.06 3.17 4.04
Batteries 0.04 0.08 0.06
Conducting our business ethically 
and responsibly 30
A feature of the Australian business context in recent 
years has been a decline in trust of institutions amongst 
consumers, and greater societal expectations of businesses 
to behave ethically and responsibly. As one of Australia’s 
leading telecommunications companies, and an ASX-
listed company, we recognise that responsible business is 
paramount. How we go about our business, or the way we 
do business, is just as important as what we do. We believe 
that how we treat our colleagues, our customers and how 
we work with the community, is essential in building and 
maintaining trust.
Aligning our governance arrangements
Following the merger, we established new governance 
arrangements including a new Board, with the addition of 
two independent directors, and a new Executive Team. 
We refreshed our Code of Conduct which acts as our 
central policy, outlining requirements that every single 
person working for TPG Telecom must comply with, 
regardless of location or position. We also undertook a 
company-wide risk assessment, overseen by our new Audit 
and Risk Committee established by the Board. 
We adopted several new policies consistent with our status 
as a listed entity, including a Market (Continuous) Disclosure 
Policy and a Securities Trading Policy. We also refreshed 
policies on grievance handling, whistleblowing, and anti-
bribery, maintaining alignment with best practice and 
integrating the organisation under a common framework. 
TPG Telecom’s corporate governance is overseen by the 
Governance, Remuneration and Nomination Committee 
which reports to the Board. 
Protecting our customers
We consider consumer protection and better customer 
outcomes to be paramount, requiring an empathetic 
and flexible approach to understanding and meeting the 
needs of individual customers, in addition to compliance 
with regulatory requirements. In the context of the 
significant financial difficulty experienced by many 
Australians during the COVID-19 pandemic, this has 
become an even greater priority. 
In 2020, a report released by the Consumer Action Law 
Centre, ‘The Trouble with Telcos: Stories from 2020’, 
highlighted a range of issues in the response of companies 
in the telecommunications sector to financial hardship during 
the pandemic, building on their earlier report, ‘Consumer 
Issues Impacting Victorian Aboriginal Communities’.
At TPG Telecom, we take consumer protection extremely 
seriously. We comply with the Telecommunications 
Consumer Protections (TCP Code), revised by a 
Communications Alliance working committee, with 
representatives from industry, consumers, government, 
and regulators, and registered by the ACMA in July 2019. 
The revisions include a range of increased consumer 
protections, including in selling practices, credit 
assessment, financial hardship, and assistance for 
vulnerable consumers, in addition to revisions for clarity and 
updating provisions to accurately reflect the marketplace. 
We also base our practices and procedures on best practice 
as set out in the Australian Competition and Consumer 
Commission’s Compliance Guide ‘Don’t take advantage of disadvantage’. We perform a compliance self-assessment 
against the requirements of the TCP Code on an annual 
basis, addressing any potential issues to ensure that we 
maintain ongoing compliance.
We provide training to our employees in identifying and 
interacting with disadvantaged customers and customers 
experiencing vulnerability, which includes a focus on 
understanding a customer’s individual needs and situation 
during the sales process. We have established mechanisms 
for monitoring and audit of sales to ensure quality and 
compliance with our internal policies.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented a range 
of customer support arrangements, including with respect 
to financial hardship arrangements. These are highlighted 
in the section of this report, ‘Helping our customers and 
communities in times of need’. 
We also provide financial and in-kind support for Accessible 
Telecoms – a nationwide disability telecommunications 
service that provides independent, up-to-date information 
on everyday telecommunication products and assistive 
technology suitable for people with disabilities, run by the 
Australian Communications Consumer Action Network. 
Modern slavery and responsible sourcing
As outlined in our Code of Conduct, we support human 
rights consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights and we respect those rights in conducting our 
operations in all locations. We stand behind local and 
international efforts to stop slavery and human trafficking 
and look for ways to promote these efforts. We have a 
zero-tolerance policy against trafficking and activities 
related to trafficking.
During 2019 and 2020 we worked with our industry peers 
on the issue of modern slavery through the Telco Together 
Foundation – a registered charity that brings together 
the telecommunications industry to make a significant 
social contribution within Australia. In December 2020, 
we signed an Australian Telecommunications Leadership 
Statement on Human Rights and Modern Slavery, 
committing to work cooperatively to eliminate modern 
slavery practices where they are identified and to share 
case studies of best practice. That statement includes a set 
of Telecommunications Industry Modern Slavery Leadership 
Principles, drawing on best practice standards for business 
conduct set out in the UN Guiding Principles on Business 
Principles and Human Rights. 
In December 2020, we released our updated Supplier 
Code of Conduct, that contains enhanced requirements 
with respect to human rights and modern slavery, aligned 
to the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the ten 
principles of the UN Global Compact.
We are currently in the process of preparing our first 
modern slavery statement which is due for submission 
before 30 June 2021. As part of this process, we are 
developing and implementing a modern slavery due 
diligence framework and completing our modern slavery 
risk assessments throughout all functional areas and 
brands of the business. 
Sustainability Report 202031Supporting smarter technology 
for a healthier Australia
More than
$876k
donated to Foundation 
partners in 2020
107,500+
Australian lives improved1 
through our Foundation 
partnerships during 
2019/20$26M
donated since 2002
1. ‘Lives Improved’ comprises ‘direct’ lives improved (the target recipients of the program) and 
‘indirect’ lives improved (individuals with a close relationship to the direct beneficiary who also 
experience an ancillary positive effect and those individuals who are employed to deliver or improve 
the program). This methodology was developed by Vodafone Group in collaboration with KPMG.32
Our Vodafone Foundation aims to improve the health 
and wellbeing of Australians. We call it ‘connected for 
good’ and since 2002, we have donated $26 million to a 
range of important causes. In 2020, we distributed grants 
of $876,178 to our Foundation partners and matched 
employee donations of $123,790 – of which $100,000 was 
given to the Australian Red Cross for the Bushfire Disaster 
Relief and Recovery Fund.
During the 2019/20 financial year for the Foundation1, 
our partnerships helped to improve the lives of 107,594 
Australians and the Foundation was the number one driver 
of engagement among our employees. 
DreamLab
DreamLab is a multi-award-winning 
app which helps world-leading 
researchers at the Garvan Institute and 
Imperial College fight COVID-19 and 
cancer. DreamLab launched in 2015 in 
partnership with the Garvan Institute 
of Medical Research (Garvan) and uses the processing 
power of idle smartphones to help fast track cancer 
research. The app allows mobile phone users to donate 
processing power to crunch research data while their phone 
is not being used – halving the time taken by Garvan’s 
supercomputer. To date, the app has been launched in 17 of 
the global Vodafone Group markets and been downloaded 
over one million times, achieving four research discoveries, 
and forging a path towards personalised treatments for 
cancer. In parallel, our employees have raised almost 
$300,000 for Garvan to support further medical research.
From April 2020, we refocused the efforts of DreamLab to 
speed up the discovery of anti-viral properties in existing 
medicines and anti-viral food molecules that could be used 
to treat patients with COVID-19, by supporting a research 
project of Imperial College London. With the help of 
DreamLab users across the globe, Imperial College London 
completed Phase 1 of its Corona-AI research project in only 
six months – significantly faster than would be possible with 
standard research methods. 
Hello Sunday Morning
Since 2014 the Foundation has worked in partnership 
with Hello Sunday Morning to help change Australia’s 
relationship with alcohol. With our support, Hello Sunday 
Morning launched the Daybreak app which combines 
the best in contemporary clinical research with the latest 
advancements in mobile technology, asking users a series 
of questions to define their relationship with alcohol, 
before delivering personalised, weekly challenges to help 
them change. Independent evaluation has shown that the 
Daybreak app delivers more than a 50 per cent reduction 
in harmful alcohol usage for users2 and a social return of 
$2.49 for every dollar invested. 
1. The Vodafone Foundation financial year is from 1st April to 31st March.
2. Research evaluation results produced by the National Drug Research Institute (2019) found that people who use Daybreak for 3-months or more reduce their alcohol consumption 
from 37 standard drinks to 17 standard drinks per week.Ask Izzy
In December 2019, the Foundation began a partnership 
with not-for-profit social enterprise Infoxchange with a 
shared vision to harness the power of mobile technology 
to change the face of family violence in Australia. Ask 
Izzy was developed by Infoxchange in partnership with 
Google, realestate.com.au and News Corp Australia, with 
support from us. It is a website that connects people in 
need with essential services such as shelter, food, money 
help and health care, with over 370,000 services listed 
across Australia. 
Ask Izzy has played a valuable role in assisting vulnerable 
Australians during the COVID-19 pandemic. During the 
last financial year as a whole, Ask Izzy received two million 
searches for help. This included 450,000 searches for help 
across Australia during March and April 2020 – the peak 
of Australia’s first wave of COVID-19. The pandemic saw 
searches for food more than double in a single week in 
March 2020 and searches for Centrelink locations nearly 
quadruple in the following week. 
We have free-rated the Ask Izzy app on our network, 
promoted the app to our employees, and trained employees 
across our retail network and contact centre so that they 
are able to share this tool with our customers. Together with 
Infoxchange, we are aiming to facilitate earlier intervention 
for people at risk of, or experiencing violence, resulting in 
more timely and positive outcomes.
Vodafone Foundation ($)1 
Cash donations – grants to Vodafone 
Foundation partners2876,179
Cash donations - matched giving 123,790
Management costs  179,670
1. Values stated reflect the reporting period for this report i.e. year to 31 Dec 2020.
2.  The Vodafone Group made a contribution of $372,165 towards grants to Vodafone 
Foundation partners. 
 
Sustainability Report 202033