UNUMIS DOING MORE2018 Corporate Responsibility ReportOur dedication to making a 
positive diﬀerence in people’s lives is about more than the beneﬁts we provide.WE’RE GIVING BACK
PASSION1UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTWe help people gain 
aﬀordable access to disability, life, accident, critical illness, dental and vision beneﬁts.IMPROVING PEOPLE’S LIVESUNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
FOCUS2We’re creating a workplace 
where everyone is valuedand respected.UNLOCKING POTENTIAL
CHANGE3UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTWe strive to create positive 
change  every day through our 
commitment, our vision and the values that have guided us for the last 170 years.UNUM IS DOING MOREDOINGUNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
MORE45UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
CEO Rick McKenney with Unyae Lee and Miles Huﬀ 
at a Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service volunteer event in Chattanooga, TennesseeUnum has a long history of making a diﬀerence in people’s lives, from 
our customers to our employees — and, just as importantly, to the communities where we live, work and play.A note from Rick McKenney
Our employees pursue a shared purpose of providing essential ﬁnancial protection to 
millions of workers that helps keep families secure and supports the success of thousands of businesses. 
That commitment to helping people through challenging times extends to our approach to 
social responsibility. We support organizations that make our communities stronger for all. We advocate for greater access to the beneﬁts that strengthen our societies and families. We protect the environment around us, and invest in our workplace culture — all while following sound, ethical business practices.
At the same time, Unum is in the process of developing a framework to make measured 
progress in how external organizations rate our ESG eﬀorts, which may include policy and practice changes but also further disclosing the positive things we are already doing.
Our world and our business have changed a lot during the more than 170 years we’ve 
been around, but our employees, customers and communities can count on one constant: the caring spirit at the heart of who we are.This report highlights some of the ways ournearly 10,000 employees in the U.S., U.K., Irelandand Poland make a positive diﬀerence inpeople’s lives every day. 
Richard (Rick) McKenney
President and CEOUnum GroupWe use our Corporate Responsibility Report (CRR) to share how we are managing and 
measuring the impact the company is having on our customers, communities and environment while creating a workplace where each employee is valued and respected. Information in this report has been reviewed by the Governance Committee of the Unum Group board of directors and reﬂects the company’s operations and facilities in the U.S., U.K. and Ireland for which Unum holds the majority ﬁnancial stake. This report covers 2018 calendar year results and includes data collected from January 1 to December 31, 2018.  Some data has been rounded. Monetary ﬁgures are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted. For more information regarding the contents of this report, contact Unum’s Corporate Communications department at corpcomm@unum.com.
6UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
About this reportABOUT UNUM
Being there for the businesses we help protect and 
the lives we touch every day is our business, and it has been for more than 170 years.
A business for good
We help millions of people gain access to 
essential disability, life, accident, critical illness, dental and vision beneﬁts through the workplace. Employers of all sizes depend on us for the comprehensive beneﬁts solutions they need to attract and support the people who keep their businesses growing. And their employees know they can count on us to be there during some of life’s most challenging times. 
From aﬀordable ﬁnancial protection to 
communication and enrollment services, claims support, absence management, and vocational rehabilitation services, we’re committed to providing the solutions our customers need with simplicity, empathy and expertise.
7UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Unum US
A market leader in group and individual 
disability beneﬁts in the U.S., one of the largest providers of group life and voluntary workplace beneﬁts, and a growing dental and vision carrier
Colonial Life
A leading provider of voluntary worksite 
beneﬁts, including disability, life, accident, critical illness, cancer, hospitalization, dental and vision coverage in the U.S.
Unum UK
The leading provider of group income 
protection and critical illness coverage in the U.K., as well as a provider of life and dental beneﬁtsOn a daily basis, our nearly 
10,000 employees in the U.S., U.K., Ireland and Poland are committed to supporting the communities in which we live and work, creating a healthy and rewarding workplace, being good stewards of our environment and meeting the needs of others.
8UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Here are just a few of them…“I’ve been with Unum for more than 16 years, and I’ve experienced ﬁrsthand the 
organization’s commitment to its people. Our focus on inclusion and diversity builds on this foundation to ensure the contributions of every team member are appreciated and valued. And by leveraging the diverse perspectives of our employees, we’re able to better reﬂect and understand the communities where we do business and the customers we serve.”
As an inclusion and diversity HR program manager, Katrina develops and supports 
programs and initiatives to integrate inclusion and diversity throughout the company and works with Unum’s employee resource groups and Inclusion Council to ensure their work aligns with Unum’s commitment to a more inclusive workplace.  
“Our employee resource groups have grown signiﬁcantly over the past year, with more than 10% of our employees participating. That’s more than 1,000 passionate and uniquely equipped members creating fun and creative opportunities for our employees to learn more about one another and the beneﬁts of being an inclusive and diverse workplace. 
“The diversity of our employees is what makes us strong, and an inclusive workplace where 
diversity is valued is what makes us special. It’s also proven to yield positive business results, including higher rates of innovation and higher employee satisfaction and retention.
“I also look at it in far simpler terms: It’s the right thing to do. Inclusion and diversity work is 
for everyone. But no matter how many diverse employees we bring through our doors, we will only meet our goal of becoming the most inclusive, diverse, and welcoming company in our industry if those employees feel valued and appreciated once they’re here. That’s where each of us has a responsibility to be inclusive in the way we interact with one another, in the way we lead and in the way we make decisions each and every day. I’m excited for the progress we’ve made and to be a part of the work that’s yet to come.”
9
Kristina Clark
Chattanooga, Tennessee“When I started with Unum, I was elated to learn of the company’s commitment 
to supporting our communities through volunteerism.”
Chris is a senior marketing specialist in Baton Rouge, and volunteers most of his time
in support of the Greater Baton Rouge Food Bank, Baton Rouge Free Clinic and theEmerge Center. 
“Volunteering has always been important to me. Early in my life, I came to realize I wanted to 
be part of something important that changes people’s lives for the better. 
“I work with the Greater Baton Rouge Food Bank, Baton Rouge Free Clinic and the Emerge 
Center for children with delayed speech and autism. It’s rewarding work because it has an immediate positive eﬀect on people’s lives. When you feed someone, you help solve a problem they’re facing right now. I also love to do work that helps people grow and improve their lives. When you work with children to strengthen literacy and life skills, you help forge the building blocks of a strong community.
“One of the best parts about all this is that improving the lives of others is part of my job and 
who we are as a company. It’s awesome to see our company set the example and encourage employees to get involved to help form a growing coalition of community partners that can accomplish great things.
“There is nothing you can build or create that can outlive your service to other people. A small 
kindness you give someone today can change one life after another, echoing forever.”
10
Chris Winters
Baton Rouge, Louisiana“I started in human resources at Unum, so I learned about the value of our beneﬁts early in 
my career. I’ve always thought long-term disability and medical insurance were the most important and necessary beneﬁts, which I still believe is true, but I’m glad I didn’t waive critical illness coverage. I thought because my heart condition was already diagnosed, I wouldn’t be able to use it, which was not true.”
11
Kadie is a client manager in our Minneapolis ﬁeld oﬃce and a customer who underwent a 
heart transplant to ﬁx a rare heart condition that restricted the amount of blood her heart could pump to the rest of her body.
“In 2018, my kidneys began to fail, which escalated my heart condition. After being accepted 
on the transplant list, I moved to Arizona to be close to the Mayo Clinic and soon after received a new heart.
“Throughout it all, my experience has been more than ideal. I have the most supportive 
colleagues who have been behind me the entire time. Since I’ve been back to work I’ve been fortunate enough to have very few complications, but it’s nice that Unum’s given me the ﬂexibility to focus on my health and recovery. 
“Prior to having my transplant, I used to worry about what impact my condition would have 
on my ﬁnances and quality of life. But between our health insurance, disability and critical illness beneﬁts, I didn’t have to bat an eye. I feel very lucky, because many employers don’t oﬀer employees these beneﬁts. 
“So whenever I get the chance, I share my personal experience and try to educate people 
about the need to protect your ﬁnances through tough times. But more importantly, I try to provide hope. If my story can provide the conﬁdence and courage needed for a recovery of any kind, then I’m happy to share it.”Kadie Neuharth
Minneapolis, Minnesota12“When I joined Unum in the Marketing Department, I was happy to ﬁnd there 
was a Green Team I could get involved with to help educate our fellow Unum employees about the beneﬁts of behaving sustainably at the oﬃce, which not only helps the planet, but also boosts the company’s bottom line.”
Leslie is a senior writer in our Marketing Communications & Operations area who has 
been interested in nature and the outdoors since she was a child. With an MBA in sustainable development, she understands the importance of designing things to minimize waste and environmental impact and leads our Chattanooga Green Team to help spread the message of sustainability.
“Recycling not only keeps stuﬀ out of the landﬁll, it also reduces our waste hauling costs. 
Turning oﬀ lights and monitors not only helps reduce our carbon emissions, it also decreases our energy costs. So I’m passionate about showing people that behaving sustainably is a win-win, and it’s not really that hard to do.
“Participating on the Green Team also helps me feel connected to the company. It gives me 
the opportunity to put my whole self forward at work and connect with other employees that I might never otherwise meet.
“It’s wonderful to work with so many energetic, committed colleagues, all of whom are 
dedicated to helping keep our planet healthy and livable. Each one of them takes time out of their very busy days to contribute toward this mission here at Unum.”Leslie Bell
Chattanooga, Tennessee13Liz Decker
Portland, Maine
“I have a great comfort interacting with people who suddenly and 
unexpectedly have physical and cognitive diﬃculties.”
Liz is a disability beneﬁts specialist in Portland who tries to make a personal connection 
with each of the Unum customers she guides through the claim process.
“Most of my customers I help are afraid, anxious and unsure. Afraid that they might lose their 
job, anxious they won’t be able to ‘get back to normal’ and return to work, and unsure of the claim process. Many of them have never been out of work due to any sort of injury before, and they’re not used to being at home and unable to do the things they used to do.  
“When I call to help them with their claim, I try to put them at ease and help demystify the 
claim process. I always want to make a personal connection with each of my customers, and I try to inject some humor into each phone call so they’re more comfortable. And if they need a virtual shoulder to cry on, I’m always there for them. It’s how I’d want to be treated if I were in their situation.
“I take pride in my relationships with my customers. Human interaction is what drives us all, 
and I feel my best when I’m helping someone through a trying time and assisting them in getting back to their lives.” 14
“After the birth of my third child, I took six weeks of paid parental 
leave to spend time with William and to also support my wife and two other children during a time of great transition.”
Ryan is an assistant vice president in our Service Operations area and a father of three. 
Ryan recently took advantage of Unum’s paid parental leave beneﬁt to spend time at home, bonding with his son, William, and supporting his wife.
“It was incredibly meaningful and rewarding. My wife had so much less stress than she would 
have had otherwise, since she really only had to focus on William. The older girls felt loved and supported through it because I was able to spend so much quality time with them. I think this helped them appreciate their baby brother rather than resent him for taking all of the attention away.
“Having this time to only focus on family is probably one of the greatest gifts I have ever 
received, allowing me to make great memories and experience intimate moments that otherwise would not have happened. 
“I wish I could have had this experience with all three kids. I didn’t get to bond in the same 
way with my two girls. The stories, moments and experiences: you're either there for them, or you miss them. I’m as happy thinking about those moments I had with William as I am sad thinking about what I missed with the girls.
“I’m incredibly grateful that we’re oﬀered this beneﬁt and for the support it gives new parents 
and families during an exciting new phase of life.”Ryan Ewalt
Chattanooga, Tennessee“Sports were a big part of my life growing up, and my teammates 
and I were required to give back to the community. At ﬁrst, those volunteer requirements were things I tried to just check oﬀ, but my perspective changed when I saw all the good that happened when I gave back and helped others.”
15A senior HR representative in Chattanooga, Unyae enjoys working with girls from the 
Chattanooga Girls Leadership Academy and has developed a sisterly bond with many of them. 
“When I joined Unum, I noticed many of my coworkers were heavily invested in organizations 
such as United Way and Big Brothers Big Sisters, and they were passionate about getting others to participate. I was ecstatic to get involved. 
“I enjoy working with the girls at Chattanooga Girls Leadership Academy the most. Wherever I 
volunteer, I’m intentional about treating people like family and the CGLA girls feel like my little sisters. Sometimes they don’t know me from a bag of peanuts, but they see someone who looks like them and I know how impactful that is. I can’t create their perfect roadmap, but I can oﬀer my time and create a safe space. 
“I appreciate being a part of a company that wants to use resources to better others through 
their people. We spend most of our days in the workplace helping our clients, and it’s nice to shift that focus over to our communities, too.
“When we give back together, we are more likely to come together in times of need.”Unyae Lee
Chattanooga, Tennessee16“For many of the customers I help, this is their ﬁrst experience being 
away from work due to a mental health problem or injury. They can often be quite distressed or apprehensive, so my ﬁrst step is to listen and understand what they’re going through. Being listened to can be very therapeutic, and I’ve had many customers thank me for simply listening to them.”
A vocational rehabilitation consultant for our Unum UK operations, Sophie takes a 
supportive approach to helping our customers transition back to work safely and sustainably.  
“Once I understand their needs, I might suggest a structured plan or certain tasks they can do 
in preparation for returning to work. Often small things such as an ice breaker visit to the oﬃce or rehearsing a phrase to use in response to questions can really help someone who is feeling anxious about going back.
“I always try to take a supportive approach and reframe things so that the individual can see 
the positives. People can be unnecessarily hard on themselves and fail to recognize the positive progress they’re making.  
“I love being a part of a customer’s journey back to where they want to be. When you consider 
how much time we spend working, it’s easy to understand why getting back to work is so important to many of our customers. And I’m proud to be in a position to make a positive diﬀerence in someone’s life.”Unyae Lee
Chattanooga, TNSophie Partridge
Dorking, United KingdomToo many families lack a basic ﬁnancial safety net to protect their 
ﬁnances and their futures. For example, our research found nearly half of working-age Americans have less than $1,000 in savings and could only pay three months or less of expenses without assistance.
Expanding access to ﬁnancial protection beneﬁts at the workplace can signiﬁcantly reduce the 
need for government-funded support. By partnering with employers, Unum provides people and their families the ﬁnancial protection beneﬁts they need when faced with the unexpected challenges of illness or injury, helping them maintain their quality of life and close ﬁnancial gaps. This partnership also beneﬁts employers directly: studies show employees are more committed and engaged when their employers oﬀer comprehensive beneﬁts packages including disability, critical illness, life, dental and vision insurance. 
Still, many employees in the U.S. and U.K. lack aﬀordable access to these vital ﬁnancial 
protection beneﬁts. To help change that, we regularly engage with policymakers, industry groups, and other public and private institutions in the U.S. and U.K. to ﬁnd ways to make beneﬁts like the ones we oﬀer more accessible and aﬀordable to all employees. By sharing our expertise, providing thought leadership and actively participating in industry coalitions and trade associations, we’re working to make a diﬀerence that extends far beyond our own organization. 
17UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Protecting ﬁnancial stability
Responsibility with transparency
Upholding the highest standards of integrity, ﬁnancial responsibility 
and disclosure is embedded in our values and culture. Our annual reports, quarterly ﬁlings and other ﬁnancial disclosures are publicly available on our website. In 2018, we were recognized as a CPA-Zicklin Index Trendsetter from the Center for Political Disclosure& Accountability.18UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTEvery day, we tackle the 
challenges of changing markets, ﬁnd new ways to be the best and deliver on our commitments. We’re at the top of our industry, and staying there means we move quickly, drive change and expect results.
19UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
To showcase our dedication to excellence, our 
company has received numerous awards…Unum is one of 230 companies selected for the 2019 Bloomberg Gender 
Equality Index, which distinguishes organizations committed to transparency in gender reporting and advancing women’s equality. The index includes organizations from 10 industry sectors across 36 countries and regions. Our Women’s Professional Network employee resource group is dedicated to increasing the richness of opportunities for women and nurturing a gender-intelligent culture. We’ve also been recognized by the Women’s Forum of New York and the 2020 Women on Boards organization for female representation on our corporate board.Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index
Unum was recognized as a “Best Place to Work for LGBTQ 
Equality” by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation based on our employment beneﬁts, nondiscrimination policies and organizational commitment to LGBTQ equality. Unum strives to create a welcoming environment for employees, and has more than 1,000 employees involved in employee resource groups. Through our employee impact, we’re also ranked as a top 100 Innovator in Diversity & Inclusion by Mogul.Human Rights Campaign Foundation
Upholding the highest standards of integrity, ﬁnancial responsibility, and disclosure is 
interwoven in everything we do. Our annual reports, quarterly ﬁlings and other ﬁnancial disclosures are publicly available on our website. As a result of our embrace of political disclosure and accountability, Unum is recognized as a CPA-Zicklin Index Trendsetter. This report is produced annually by the Center for Political Accountability in conjunction with the Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research at The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. 
20UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
CPA-Zicklin Index TrendsetterIn 2018, Unum received the Great Place to Work certiﬁcation through 
the Great Place to Work Institute, an independent authority on high-performance work cultures. The certiﬁcation is based on extensive ratings provided by Unum employees in anonymous surveys. Our employees rated the quality of challenges, atmosphere, rewards, pride, communication and bosses. At least 90% of employees said they have positive experiences in each of those areas.Great Place to Work 
Unum was named one of the 2018 Disability Equality Index “Best Places to Work” by Disability:IN and the American Association of People with Disabilities. Companies are rated on several key performance indicators including culture, leadership, accessibility, employment, community 
21UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
engagement, support services and supplier diversity. We oﬀer a variety of programs, beneﬁts 
and resources to ensure inclusion is embedded in our culture so all employees can reach their full potential. To help Unum achieve this goal, more than 1,000 employees are involved in employee resource groups to champion initiatives related to creating an inclusive culture.Disability Equality Index “Best 
Places to Work”
Through Ward benchmarking, Unum was analyzed for ﬁnancial 
performance among 700 life and health insurance companies in the U.S. and received a top 50 recognition. Unum maintains a disciplined ﬁnancial approach to maintain proﬁtability and a strong capital position for shareholders. Because of this we’re also ranked among the top 12 in the U.S. Insurance RepTrack rankings by the Reputations Institute and received a Hero Award for Pay Transparency from Payscale.Life-Health Ward’s 50 CompanyENVIRONMENTAL
We’re committed to helping protect the valuable 
resources we all depend on to support quality of life for everyone. We do that by striving to eﬀectively manage our impact on the environment. Our facilities account for our biggest environmental impacts, and we have made signiﬁcant strides in several areas to measure our impact and improve eﬃciencies to reduce our carbon footprint.
Focus areas
Whether it’s through installing touch-free 
faucets and ﬂush valves to reduce water consumption or replacing ﬂuorescent and incandescent lighting ﬁxtures with LED lighting, we’re continually looking for innovative ways to green the operation of our buildings — knowing every investment we make today is an investment in a better tomorrow. Our environmental sustainability work focuses in three primary areas: carbon and energy, water, and waste minimization.
22UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
To reduce carbon emissions, Unum strives for facility 
operational excellence. Along with a developing energy management program, Unum is committed to reducing its carbon footprint by improving its energy eﬃciency.Minimizing our environmental
footprint
Saving energy and reducing carbon 
emissions is the most signiﬁcant opportunity we have to reduce our company-wide environmental impact. CARBON & ENERGY
Because the majority of our water consumption comes 
from employee activity and our facilities, we’re working to improve monitoring systems, set meaningful goals and improve overall water eﬃciency.Conserving is a key part of a 
successful strategy
We recognize water is a limited resource 
and stress sustainable management of the water we use.WATER36 million 
people are protected worldwide.
Reduction in year-over-year portfolio 
carbon emissions from purchased electricity4.4%
CARBON & ENERGY
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.
Reduction in year-over-year portfolio 
potable water usage8.6%
WATER
23UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTIn 2017, we began a multimillion-dollar workplace improvement program to turn our 
traditional workspaces into more open and collaborative spaces and to help us minimize our impact on the environment. At completion, our primary facilities will feature lighting control systems that use motion sensors and daylight harvesting, touch-free faucets and ﬂush valves to reduce water consumption, more than 18,000 new LED lights resulting in a projected annual savings of 2 million kilowatt hours per year, centralized waste and recycling stations, and other upgrades that align with our primary reduction goals. We promote reduction and reuse of resources, and are 
committed to improving waste and recycling programs and reducing waste generation.Wasting less, recycling more
We try to make it as easy as possible for 
our employees to think about recycling before they consider something waste.WASTE MINIMIZATION
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.
Reduction in year-over-year portfolio 
paper recycling, saving over 15 tons of paper2.7%
WASTE MINIMIZATION
Driving change
24UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT25UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTMany of our people share a personal commitment to conserving 
resources and protecting our environment, so we look for ways to get employees involved. Employees on Unum’s Green Team are dedicated to engaging our workforce in environmental responsibility at the oﬃce and in our communities. They’ve organized and hosted annual events celebrating sustainability, including America Recycles Day and Earth Day to showcase our commitment to sustainability and raise awareness in our communities.Involving our employees
In 2018, Unum initiated new and improved recycling programs at our corporate campuses. 
The Green Teams helped educate our employees by creating instructional signage and guiding employees though the process of separating food waste and sorting recyclable materials from non-recyclable materials. Their eﬀorts have helped make these programs successful. 
Looking ahead
As a ﬁnancial services company, most of our environmental impacts 
come from our facilities and operations. This year and beyond, we expect to further reduce our corporate environmental impact by:
Enhancing our energy 
and sustainability management processes.Identifying our most 
signiﬁcant energy and sustainability factors and setting new goals.Optimizing energy and 
operational eﬃciency of our facilities, thereby reducing carbon emissions.Taking steps toward 
the more eﬃcient use of materials and resources.
26UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTSOCIAL
We’re dedicated to making a positive diﬀerence in 
people’s lives — and that commitment goes far beyond the beneﬁts we provide our customers.
Through deep community involvement, active 
advocacy, a vibrant and inclusive work environment, and valuable career opportunities, we’re dedicated to providing the resources our employees and those around us need to thrive.
Community members
We build stronger communities by 
focusing signiﬁcant resources to improve educational opportunities, promote health and wellness, and support the arts. We encourage employee engagement in community outreach by providing time oﬀ for volunteer activities and matching employee giving to qualiﬁed organizations. We also forge strong partnerships with educators and other organizations that help us determine how best to support our fellow community members .
27UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTWe believe education is the foundation of strong communities 
and the key to great futures for our children.
Support for students, teachers and schools in our communities is 
our single biggest area of giving, accounting for more than half our annual charitable contributions. Education is the key to great futures for our children, so we’ve created and guided business-education partnerships that develop education leaders and give students access to new opportunities. Our employees are also heavily involved in reading and mentoring programs.PUBLIC EDUCATION
28UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT29UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
JMG (Portland)  – Unum and JMG partnered to develop an annual event called Urban Adventure, which invites nearly 250 
disadvantaged youth from across the state to take over our Portland headquarters for two days. Unum employees 
host workshops and activities focused on career skills, community service and civic engagement. Unum also supports JMG’s Career Development Conference, where more than 600 career- and college-ready students participate in competitive events that measure skills in interviewing, job preparedness, teamwork, communication and leadership.
CarolinaTIP (Columbia)  – The Carolina Teacher Induction Program, known as CarolinaTIP, serves as a bridge of support 
for new teachers. The program is a collaboration between the University of South Carolina’s College of Education and school districts across the state. Unum’s support of CarolinaTIP helps recent graduates make the transition from college student to successful classroom teacher.
City Year Columbia Team Champions (Columbia) – Unum provides support to City Year and its corps members to help 
high-need students get back on track to graduation by serving as mentors, tutors and positive role models. Our employees oﬀer professional development coaching workshops to corps members focused on personal branding, public speaking, resume-building, mock interviewing and networking.
South High Community School & Sullivan Middle School (Worcester)  - We partner with the middle and high school in 
Worcester’s South Quadrant to provide experiential learning opportunities and to connect students with the resources they need for successful futures. 
halow project (U.K.)  - Unum UK employees in our Dorking oﬃce support halow through fundraising and volunteering as 
part of a two-year local charity partnership.
Chattanooga Girls Leadership Academy  – Unum has supported numerous advancements and programs at CGLA, 
including technology integration and computer upgrades for students and faculty, robotics and 3D printing in the Maker Space, and smart classroom technology. We also supported the installation of an on-campus medical clinic, which addresses the health and wellness needs of students, their families and staﬀ to improve health outcomes and combat chronic absenteeism due to a lack of access to basic health care.
Future Ready Institutes (Chattanooga)  – Beginning in 2018, we partnered with the Hamilton County Department of 
Education to support the Future Ready Institutes Externship Program, which uses a problem-based learning approach to tie together core content and career themes to create a relevant and engaging learning environment for students. These externships allow teachers to get out of their classrooms and into businesses and industries to infuse real-world context and skills needed as they develop the problem sets for their students to complete.
Public Education Foundation (Chattanooga) – We have supported many PEF initiatives over the course of our
partnership, including the Principal Leadership Academy, the STEM Teaching Fellows program and the Teacher Leadership Fellows program.
LaSalle Elementary School (Baton Rouge)  – Unum’s partnership with LaSalle Elementary has expanded from fulﬁlling 
funding requests to more active employee involvement in reading opportunities and as Spanish speaker volunteers. The goal of our partnership is to bridge the work of other nonproﬁt partners in the community, such as Junior Achievement or Pat’s Coats for Kids, and provide additional services to the students and their families.  
Carlow Institute of Technology (Ireland)  – Unum is committed to securing brighter futures for young people in our 
communities through educational funding and volunteer programs.We provide our employees the support they need to lead healthy, 
active lives — and we echo that commitment in the communities where they work, live and play. We contribute to organizations and programs that focus on improving health and quality of life for all, from medical and dental clinics that serve the needy to helping feed the hungry and house the homeless. Our commitment to health and wellness extends beyond our 
own employees to all the communities we call home.HEALTH & WELLNESS
30UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT31UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
The Emerge Center (Baton Rouge)  – Unum supports The Emerge Center to help children with developmental diﬀerences 
and their families with the services and care they need to help their children reach their highest potential. Our support 
allows the center to expand its learning programs, provide more resources to families and serve even more children.  
The Cromwell Center for Disabilities Awareness (Portland) - The Cromwell Center for Disabilities Awareness is committed to 
promoting safe, respectful and inclusive schools and communities. Unum is a longstanding supporter of the center’s programs that address all disabilities, including learning, behavioral, emotional, developmental and physical.
Children’s Advocacy Center of Hamilton County (Chattanooga)  – Most recently, Unum funded some of the center’s 
intervention services, including its Forensic Interviewing Program, which provides coordinated and comprehensive response to child sexual and severe physical abuse, and Prevention Education Program, which reaches more than 2,000 adults and 3,000 elementary-age youth annually. 
Siskin Hospital for Physical Rehabilitation (Chattanooga)  – For 16 years, Siskin has hosted the Possibilities Luncheon, the 
hospital’s only community-wide fundraising event. As the premier event sponsor for each of those years, Unum has helped raise funds for charity care patients who do not have insurance or the means to pay for their rehabilitative care. 
Transitions Homeless Center (Columbia)  – Unum supports the center’s Youth in Transition program for teens and young 
adults living on the street, providing them with a safe shelter and assistance with becoming workforce-ready through GED certiﬁcation, entry into college and/or a job for long-term ﬁnancial independence. Unum employees also regularly volunteer at Transitions by serving lunch and hosting activities.
Child Bereavement UK (U.K.)  – Unum UK supported Child Bereavement UK in 2018 as part of a two-year national charity 
partnership. Colleagues raised more than £60,000 through fundraising, which included a 20-strong team of employees participating in a three-day mountain trekking challenge.
Ark Cancer Centre Charity (U.K.)  – Unum UK employees in our Basingstoke oﬃce (Hampshire) supported Ark through 
fundraising and volunteering as part of a two-year local charity partnership.
Order of Malta Ambulance Corps (Ireland)  – Unum supports the Order of Malta’s mission to make a positive contribution 
to communities by training and mobilizing volunteers who care for the vulnerable and disadvantaged, the sick and the poor, and those who may beneﬁt from its community care initiatives, ﬁrst-aid and youth services, and specialist professional training programs.32UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
A vibrant arts environment is essential to quality of life, attracting 
talent and driving economic development in our communities. We support organizations that oﬀer art, music, theater and other cultural opportunities to students and other residents. Extending access to the arts to everyone sparks creativity, enriches diversity and brings our communities to life.We support access to arts and culture to spark creativity, 
enrich diversity and bring our communities to life.ARTS & CULTURE33UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Manship Theatre (Baton Rouge) – Unum provides local 3rd grade students at LaSalle Elementary School with artist 
residency programs through the Manship Theatre. These educational workshops host skilled art and music 
professionals in the classroom and combine their teachings with a theatrical performance. Students get the chance to connect what they’re learning in and out of the classroom and experience diﬀerent expressions of art. 
Portland Museum of Art – Unum supports the Portland Art Museum’s dedication to be an open, accessible, inclusive and 
welcoming museum for all, through exhibitions and programs that reﬂect the community and create experiences with art that strengthen bonds and bring people together. 
ArtsBuild (Chattanooga)  – We support the organization’s Imagine! Arts Education Initiative, which introduces all K-4 
elementary school students in the Chattanooga area to local arts organizations through performances, exhibits and classroom residencies. The initiative also oﬀers workshops on how to integrate the arts with literacy instruction for K-12 teachers.  
Hunter Museum of American Art (Chattanooga)  – Unum’s support allows free admission for self-guided tours of the 
Hunter Museum for school groups of K-12 students within a 50-mile radius of Chattanooga, connecting gallery learning to STEM studies, language arts, social studies and cultural understanding.  We also support the museum’s outreach program to Title I schools, providing increased engagement opportunities, transportation, additional supplies and resources for students before or after a trip to the museum, as well as the opportunity for teachers to develop a learning initiative involving a STEM project.
South Carolina Philharmonic (Columbia) – Support for SC Phil’s Link Up concerts provides South Carolina students in 
grades 3-5 with an interactive experience to connect classroom learning with a live performance by singing and playing their recorder along to the music of a professional orchestra.
Orpheus (UK) – Unum UK partnered with Orpheus, a performing arts college for young people with learning and 
physical disabilities, to deliver interactive disability awareness sessions for UK employees. Our charitable grants program also contributed toward the installation of new outdoor gym equipment, and employees also regularly volunteer at the charity.
Carlow Fringe Arts Festival (Ireland)  – Unum has supported the Carlow Fringe Arts Festival, a vibrant showcase to help 
give people from all walks of life the opportunity to access and experience exhibitions, live music, poetry and storytelling, as well as a chance to create art under the guidance of professional artists.We participate in public policy discussions on a variety of issues 
related to our business and industry. One of our primary areas of focus is advocating for greater access to ﬁnancial protection beneﬁts for workers and their families. 
Many employees in the U.S. and U.K. still lack access to aﬀordable ﬁnancial protection beneﬁts 
that help them face the unexpected challenges of illness or injury. That’s why our primary objective is to raise awareness about the fragile ﬁnancial condition of families, the frequency of work-limiting illnesses and injuries, the constraints on government safety nets, and how the workplace oﬀers an eﬀective and eﬃcient method of insuring against risk and reducing pressure on poverty assistance programs.  
Since our industry is highly regulated — and the government saves money when workers are 
covered by our beneﬁts — being engaged in public policy makes good business sense. We’re committed to working with the government to build strong partnerships that oﬀer innovative solutions to ensure valuable ﬁnancial protection remains widely accessible and aﬀordable.Advocacy
Our engagement in these issues includes:
Funding research on disability 
trends, the economic impact of ﬁnancial protection beneﬁts and consumer insurance purchasing habits.
Sponsoring state legislation
to encourage greater participation in ﬁnancial protection beneﬁts through employee auto-enrollment, with the option to opt-out.Providing expertise to federal and 
state agencies related to disability beneﬁts.
Active participation in industry 
associations such as the American Council of Life Insurers.
34UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTOur culture and human capital management
The well-being of our employees is one of our top priorities and 
starts with a dynamic and welcoming workplace that embraces diversity, fosters collaboration and encourages employees to bring their best ideas to work every day.
We’ve undertaken a multiyear modernization of our main campuses, transforming our 
workspaces to spark greater collaboration, innovation and ﬂexibility, and we’ve introduced upgraded food service and ﬁtness amenities to help employees live their best. These new, contemporary workplaces will support the recruitment of top talent and our delivery of best-in-class customer service.
We’re also listening to what our employees have to say through feedback from employee 
engagement surveys, our ethics hotline and other methods to ensure we remain true to our values and provide a positive culture where everyone can thrive. 
Live your best you
To help our employees maintain a positive work-life balance, we 
provide access to beneﬁts and resources they need to enhance their physical, emotional and ﬁnancial well-being. 
Life
We expect our employees to have a sharp focus on our customers, deliver on our 
commitments and stay at the top of the industry. For them to do this, it’s important they enjoy a healthy, balanced lifestyle with time to focus on their own well-being. That’s why we oﬀer a generous amount of paid time oﬀ and ﬂexible work arrangements. And our parental leave policy is one of the latest examples of how we’re enhancing our beneﬁt oﬀerings to better support the diﬀerent facets of our employees’ lives.
35UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTHealth
We oﬀer comprehensive health plans, onsite ﬁtness and health resource centers at our 
primary facilities, programs that help employees understand and manage chronic health 
issues, and rewards to encourage healthy behaviors. 
Wealth
Employees also have access to resources to help them gain ﬁnancial peace of mind, including 
tools to help them with ﬁnancial basics or more advanced planning. We recognize many of our employees face the challenge of balancing student debt with planning for their ﬁnancial futures. Our ﬁrst-of-its-kind student debt relief program provides employees more tools to reduce ﬁnancial stress and improve overall well-being.
Training and professional development
A great place to work is one where people of every background have the tools to grow and 
reach their full potential. We have a strong focus on training and professional development. All employees participate in an annual curriculum of training on our Code of Conduct (which covers a variety of topics including ethics, harassment, regulatory compliance and our business practices) privacy, and information security. We also provide employees and managers a variety of training and development programs tailored to their speciﬁc roles. And we support the professional development of our employees through our tuition assistance program, oﬀ ering 
full-time employees up to $5,250 in annual tuition reimbursement and part-time employees up to $1,500 per year.
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.
Professional development is a crucial 
part of our culture. Training curriculum provided by Lynda.com was used by 6,086 employees with 112,173 videos viewed6,086
CAREER36 million 
people are protected worldwide.
Financial stability and security are at 
the forefront of our employee beneﬁts plans with more than 91% of U.S. employees contributing to a 401(k) plan91%
WEALTH36 million 
people are protected worldwide.
86% of all U.S. employees enrolled in 
our competitive health plan, 97% of all Ireland employees and 88% of all U.K. employees enrolled in supplemental health plans86%
HEALTH
36UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTWe are committing greater resources to foster a workplace that 
welcomes diverse backgrounds and perspectives, and reﬂects our customers and our communities. Our commitment starts at the top, and we’re pleased to have been recognized as being a leader in gender diversity at the board level. We set inclusion and diversity performance goals for the CEO and senior leadership team. In 2018, we also established and staﬀed an Oﬃce of Inclusion & Diversity. A variety of programming and training opportunities are available for all employees to learn about issues such as unconscious bias and inclusion in the workplace. Inclusion and diversity
To lay the foundation for Unum to become the most inclusive, diverse and 
welcoming company in the employee beneﬁts market, we recently introduced a one-year action plan with three focus areas: to envision, to champion and to build.Our foundation
Envision
Establish and communicate a shared vision of inclusion and diversity and
oﬀer more opportunities for employees to share their concerns or the next great idea
Champion
Engage and develop a dedicated group of inclusion champions focused on 
providing our leaders the tools, training and materials needed to model the behavior of an inclusive leader
Build
Build a workforce that reﬂects the diversity of our customers at all levels
37UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTWe’re creating a workplace where everyone is 
valued and respected.
Involvement across all levels of the company is crucial to our work, 
and our Inclusion Council, senior leadership and our employee resource groups help advance Unum’s inclusion journey. With more than 1,000 employee members, our employee resource groups represent the full spectrum of what makes us unique and are an integral component of Unum’s commitment to driving change in inclusion and diversity.
• Ability Employee Resource Group  — provides support to Unum employees with 
disabilities and caregivers and uses the valuable perspective of having a disability
to better serve our customers
• LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group  — (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer or 
Questioning and others) seeks to create a workplace that is inclusive and acceptingof all individuals
• Race & Ethnicity Employee Resource Group  — represents and empowers all current and 
future employees of varied races
• Veteran’s Networking Group  — seeks to continue to serve others by making Unum the 
veteran employer of choice
• Women’s Professional Network  — strives to increase the richness of opportunities
for women
38UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
GOVERNANCE
The trust of our shareholders, customers and 
employees is best earned by implementing good governance practices and choosing the best people to lead us. We operate with an unwavering commitment to integrity and a laser focus on serving the long-term interests of our constituents.
Board of directors
Good governance starts with our board of directors, an 
independent and diverse voice that provides expertise, perspectives and insight for critical decisions. Our board of directors members have qualiﬁcations and attributes in key areas relevant to Unum, and meet regularly with management and appropriate outside advisers to review and discuss the company’s strategy, business and performance, as well as any important issues we face.
The following graphics provide a summary view of the 
qualiﬁcations and attributes of each of our 11 directors :
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
We have signiﬁcant operations 
focused on customer service, claimsmanagement, sales, marketing and various back-house functions.11
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
We allocate capital in various ways to 
run our operations, grow our corebusinesses and return value to shareholders.10
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT36 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
We operate in a complex ﬁnancial 
and regulatory environment withdisclosure requirements, detailed business processes and internal controls.
ACCOUNTING / AUDITINGBUSINESS OPERATIONS936 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
We rely on technology to manage 
customer data, deliver productsand services to the market andpay claims.3
TECHNOLOGY
39UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTBUSINESS OPERATIONS
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
A complex regulatory and risk 
environment requires us to develop policies and procedures that eﬀectively manage complianceand risk.
REGULATORY/RISK MANAGEMENT1036 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
Independent directors have no 
material relationships with us and are essential in providing unbiased oversight.
INDEPENDENCE10
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
We value individuals who
understand public company reporting responsibilities and have experience with the issues commonly faced by public companies.
RECENT PUBLIC BOARD EXPERIENCE836 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
As a public company, we expect 
eﬀective oversight and transparency, and our stakeholders demand it.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP8
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
Experience in the insurance and 
ﬁnancial services industry providesa relevant understanding of our business, strategy and marketplacedynamics.8
INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE36 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
We manage a large and long-term 
investment portfolio to uphold ourpromise to pay the future claims of our policyholders.
INVESTMENT MARKETS336 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
Our business involves complex 
ﬁnancial transactions and reportingrequirements.11
FINANCIAL EXPERTISE / LITERACY
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
With global operations in several 
countries and prospects for furtherexpansion, international experience helps us understand opportunities and challenges.
INTERNATIONAL6
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.36m
Experience leading a large, widely-
held organization provides practicalinsights on need for transparency, accountability and integrity.9
PUBLIC COMPANY EXECUTIVE
40UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTBUSINESS OPERATIONS
Board diversity
We believe a critical component of the board’s e ﬀectiveness is ensuring its 
membership remains diverse and represents a range of ages, backgrounds and 
overall experience. As of the 2019 Annual Meeting, half of our directors have served on the board for ﬁve years or less. More than half are women or represent a diverse group, making Unum a leader in our industry in board gender and racial/ethnic diversity. Additionally, board members range from 50 to 69 years of age, with the average age being 60.2 years .
Gender, Racial &
Ethnic Diversity
percent
BOARD DIVERSITYWomen Racial/Ethnic Other
46%
36%18%
Board of Directors
Age Diversity
percent
BOARD DIVERSITY60-64 55-59 65-69 50-54
55%27%9%9%
Board of Directors
Tenure
percent
BOARD DIVERSITY0-3 yrs 4-6 yrs 7-9 yrs 10+ yrs
5
(46%)
3
(27%)2
(18%)1
(9%)
41UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTBUSINESS OPERATIONS
Shareholder engagement
In line with our commitment to open communication and 
transparency, we have a robust shareholder engagement process. These communications promote valuable discussion on various corporate governance issues and provide an open forum to share perspectives on our policies and practices.
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.
Review current trends in
global compensation andgovernance practices 
Schedule fall meetings
with top shareholdersSUMMER
ENGAGEMENT36 million 
people are protected worldwide.
Conduct meetings with shareholders
to discuss key issues and solicitshareholder feedbackFALL
ENGAGEMENT
36 million 
people are protected worldwide.
Hold follow-up conversations with
top shareholders, as necessary, toaddress important annual meetingissuesSPRING
ENGAGEMENT36 million 
people are protected worldwide.
Review shareholder feedback with 
the board
Enhance proxy disclosures and
adjust our compensation andgovernance practices as appropriateWINTER
ENGAGEMENT
43UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTBUSINESS OPERATIONS
Business practices
Ethical behavior is the backbone of our company culture. The business of providing 
employee beneﬁts requires nothing less than for us to operate consistently, and to compassionately and fairly meet the needs of our customers during diﬃcult times of their lives. 
Code of conduct
Our code of conduct is designed to maximize transparency and foster an environment 
of openness, accountability and integrity. It guides our employees on how to abide by the company's principles and access the resources available to address any ethical issues that arise. Annual training is required for all employees. 
Privacy and information security
Protecting the conﬁdentiality of customer information is a responsibility we take 
seriously. We protect the data entrusted to us by our customers through physical, electronic and procedural safeguards, and we continually evaluate and enhance our systems and processes to help ensure the availability, integrity and accuracy of company assets, customer data and personally identiﬁable information. 
Regulatory compliance
Unum is subject to regulations and guidelines from the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission and other federal and state agencies in the U.S. and Europe. To meet the requirements of these agencies, we have a robust internal system designed to aid us with compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and to ensure we accurately represent our product and service oﬀerings to customers and shareholders. We provide ﬁnancial data, information about our business operations, details of our executive compensation and other key facts investors have a right to know. 
44UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTBUSINESS OPERATIONS
Risk management
As an insurer that helps millions of people gain aﬀordable access to ﬁnancial 
protection beneﬁts at the workplace, risk management is essential to our ability to meet the needs of our customers while maintaining and growing our business. In addition to our Executive Risk Management Committee that manages our overall risk proﬁle, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all employees. We’ve established a culture that supports candid discussion and reporting of risks while empowering our employees to take ownership of risk management.
Monitors, evaluates and recommends to the Board capital and ﬁnancing plans, 
activities, requirements and opportunities.
Oversees implementation of and compliance with investment strategies, 
guidelines and policies.
Authorizes loans and investments of the company.
Reviews, assesses and reports on the impact of various ﬁnance activities on 
our debt ratings.
Monitors, evaluates and makes recommendations regarding matters pertaining 
to our business segments no longer actively marketed, including the long-term care business, that could have a meaningful impact upon any of the matters for which the Executive Risk Management Committee has oversight responsibility.The Executive Risk Management Committee…
45UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTInvestment strategy
Investment activities are an integral part of our business, and 
proﬁtability is signiﬁcantly aﬀected by investment results. Our overall investment philosophy is to invest in a portfolio of high- quality assets that provide returns consistent with those assumed in the pricing of our insurance products. 
46UNUM CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTUnum Group
1 Fountain SquareChattanooga, TN 37402
unum.comCorporate Ofﬁces
IN THE U.S.
1 Fountain Square
Chattanooga, TN 37402United States423-294-1011
1200 Colonial Life Boulevard
Columbia, SC 29210United States803-798-7000
2211 Congress Street
Portland, ME 04122United States207-575-2211
1 Mercantile Street
Worcester, MA 01608United States774-437-4441
IN THE U.K.
Milton CourtDorking, Surrey RH4 3LZUnited Kingdom+011 44-1306 887766
IN IRELAND
2nd Floor Merchant HouseShamrock PlazaTullow Street, IRE1ACarlowIreland
© 2019 Unum Group. All rights reserved. Unum is a registered trademark and marketing brand of Unum Group and its insuring subsidiaries.