Helping the working world thrive throughout life’s moments
2019 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORTAt Unum, we help the working world thrive throughout life’s moments
We help protect people financially when they’re injured or ill and  
need it most. In today’s environment of economically fragile families,  
financial protection benefits are more important than ever.Unum 2019 ESG Report  1lOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  2lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
OUR APPROACH
A note from Rick McKenney 3
About Unum 4
We are Unum 5
Our leadership 6
Stakeholder engagement 8
Risk management 9
Materiality: Expanding our dialogue with stakeholders 10
A culture of integrity 11
SOCIAL 
Helping people and communities thrive 13
Education 15
Health & wellbeing 16
Arts & culture 17
Community giving and employee contributions 18
Employee engagement 20
Inclusion and diversity 21
Employee resource groups 22
Case study: Looking for the next generation of leaders 23
Learning and development 24
Total Rewards 26
Case study: Helping our employees thrive 27
Awards 28RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS  
When we thrive, so do our stakeholders 29
Making the right decisions 30
Responsible investment decisions 31
Privacy and data security 32
Public advocacy 33
Responsible purchasing and sourcing 34
ENVIRONMENTAL 
Caring for the planet so all can thrive 35
Case study: Caring for the world around us 37
Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage 38
Reducing our waste 39
Reducing our water impact 40
ABOUT THIS REPORT 41
Greenhouse gas emission statement of assurance 42
SASB index 43
GRI index 47
ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  3lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OUR APPROACH
We’re delighted to share the progress we’ve been making in the 
areas of corporate governance, community involvement, employee 
engagement, environmental impact and responsible business 
through our 2019 Environmental, Social and Governance report.
This report also reflects an acknowledgement that our company 
exists in a world of increasing expectations, and that even with 
our strong performance, more is expected of us. Our customers 
expect workplace benefits to be easy to understand, but flexible 
enough to be relevant. Employees want opportunities to learn 
and grow professionally. Shareholders expect sustained growth 
and profitability, and our communities depend on our continued 
involvement. 
It’s for reasons like these that our senior leadership spent a good 
part of 2019 evaluating how Unum can best anticipate and respond 
to the evolving expectations of all our stakeholders. As a result of this work, we believe the following four factors will be critical to the 
success and sustainability of Unum over the long term:
 • Accelerate growth; 
 • Fund priority investments;  
 • Keep customers top of mind; and  
 • Enhance our strong culture.
At the same time, believing that celebrating what employees bring 
to the workplace makes us stronger, we’ve placed a new emphasis 
on employee engagement. This includes areas such as Inclusion and 
Diversity, and Training and Development, both of which signify the 
importance of these areas in building careers, not just providing jobs. 
We’re creating a workforce to help fulfill our purpose and provide 
what’s important to every member of our team.
We made great progress in 2019, perhaps most notably completing 
our first materiality assessment. Now we’re identifying ways to 
enhance our sustainability strategy and continuing to examine our 
approach to material environmental, social and governance issues. 
Although we’ve taken great strides, we’re not finished. And we know 
that we can’t achieve any of the goals we’ve created for ourselves 
without the contributions of more than 11,000 Unum employees 
around the world. We thank them and look forward to working 
together to help the working world thrive throughout life’s moments.
Rick McKenney 
President and CEO, Unum GroupA note from Rick McKenney
During these unprecedented 
times, Unum is here for 
our employees, clients, and 
customers. We have taken several 
steps to support our customers 
and their employees through the 
coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. 
As always, the health and safety 
of our customers, employees, 
and communities remain our top 
priority. Our business continuity 
program prepares us to respond 
to disruptive events through 
robust planning, regular testing, 
and constant monitoring, and 
our risk-management program 
assesses our financial strength – 
to make sure we can continue to 
support you and your employees 
as the situation progresses. I 
invite you to learn about our 
COVID-19 response in this special 
section of our website.
ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  4lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
About Unum
For more than 170 years, we’ve been there for the 
businesses we help protect and the lives we touch every day. 
That’s not just our business. It’s our purpose.
A BUSINESS FOR GOOD
We help millions of people gain access to essential disability, 
life, accident, critical illness, dental and vision benefits 
through the workplace. Employers of all sizes depend on 
us for the comprehensive benefits solutions they need to 
attract and support the people who keep their businesses 
growing. And their employees know they can count on us to 
be there during some of life’s most challenging times.
From affordable financial protection to communication and 
enrollment services, claims support, absence management, 
and vocational rehabilitation services, we’re committed to 
providing the solutions our customers need with simplicity, 
empathy and expertise.Headquarters 
Chattanooga, TN
Covered lives through disability, life, 
accident, critical illness, dental and 
vision policies
39m
Number of employees1
11,000+
2019 net revenue
$12bUnum US
A market leader in group and individual disability 
benefits in the U.S., one of the largest providers of 
group life and voluntary workplace benefits, and a 
growing dental and vision carrier.
Colonial Life
A leading provider of voluntary worksite benefits, 
including disability, life, accident, critical illness, 
cancer, hospitalization, dental and vision coverage 
in the U.S.
Unum International
A segment that comprises our Unum UK and 
Unum Poland business in Europe. Unum UK is 
a leading provider of group income protection 
and critical illness coverage in the U.K., as well as 
a provider of life and dental benefits. For more 
than 20 years, Unum Poland has provided group 
and individual life insurance in the Polish market. 
1 Includes all full-time employees, part-time employees, on-call benefit counselo rs, and internsOUR APPROACHENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  5lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
A passion for achieving results
An unwavering customer focus
An appetite for smart risk
A willingness to own it
An appreciation for differences
A caring spiritA company that challenges them to be their best
Work that does real good for real people
Rewards that drive performance
A culture of integrity
A collaborative work environment
The chance to give backEach day  
Unum employees  
bring to work... In return they get...We are Unum
We are 11,000+ strong, helping millions of people gain 
access to essential benefits through the workplace. And 
we provide employers of all sizes with the comprehensive 
benefits solutions they need to attract and support the 
people who keep their businesses growing. 
Unum 2019 ESG Report  5lOUR APPROACHENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  6lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Our leadership
At Unum, we believe that effective Board leadership and 
oversight depend on:
 •  an independent Board that challenges management, 
understands our business, and brings varied 
perspectives and relevant experience to oversee 
execution of our strategy;
 •  a commitment to inclusion and diversity to better serve 
the interests of our shareholders and customers while 
enhancing our ability to anticipate and adapt to a rapidly 
changing environment; and
 •  directors who have qualifications and attributes in key 
areas relevant to Unum, and a Governance Committee 
that periodically reviews the composition of the Board 
to ensure the appropriate balance of experiences, skills, 
tenure and diversity.
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Our approach to 
sustainability is shaped  
by three distinct groups:
Sustainability Working Council includes 
representatives of finance, 
risk, investments, people and 
communications, real estate, 
and law departments. It meets 
monthly to develop our strategic 
sustainability focus and initiatives. 
Sustainability Steering Council is 
composed of cross-departmental 
executive leaders, including 
business operation leaders, and 
meets quarterly to recommend 
strategy and initiatives. 
Board Governance Committee reviews 
important environmental, social, 
and governance topics on a 
quarterly basis.OUR APPROACHENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  7lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
GOVERNANCE AND SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
We believe it’s important for our Board of Directors to look 
like our customers and employees. That’s why we focus on 
the Board’s composition and diversity.
DIRECTOR TENURE
Our Board includes a mix of new and long-standing directors. 
Average tenure is 5.7 years.
DIRECTOR DIVERSITY
We are proud that the composition of our Board puts us at 
the top of our industry in gender and racial/ethnic diversity. 
More than half of our Board consists of women and 
minorities (54%). In addition, four of five committee chairs 
are women or minorities.
For more information, please click here.46%Age Diversity  
% of directors 
 50-54  
 55-59  
 60-64  
 65+Director Tenure  
% of directors 
 0-3 Years  
 4-6 Years  
 7-9 Years  
 10+ Years
18% 18%18%
64%18%9%9%
Gender, Racial &  
Ethnic Diversity  
% of directors 
 Women  
 Racial / Ethnic  
 NeitherCommittee Chairs  
% of directors 
 Women  
 Racial / Ethnic  
 Neither
18%36%
40%40%
20% 46%OUR APPROACHENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  8lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Stakeholder 
engagement
In 2019, our extensive stakeholder outreach involved 
contacting investors representing more than 72% of our 
outstanding shares. Our independent Board Chairman 
joined several of our meetings with shareholders. Investors 
representing approximately 21% of our outstanding 
shares accepted our invitation for engagement and we 
met with each of them. Additional investors, representing 
approximately 19% of our outstanding shares, responded 
that a meeting was not necessary. 
During the meetings, shareholders provided feedback  
on a variety of topics, including:
 •  director qualifications/skills and Board refreshment;
 • director overboarding policies; 
 •  Board involvement around strategic planning;
 •  environmental, social and governance disclosures  
and initiatives; and
 • human capital management.EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS INVESTORS COMMUNITIES
HOW WE 
ENGAGEEmployee engagement surveys
Employee resource groups
Quarterly town halls
Social mediaIndustry conferences
Ongoing continuing education 
Onsite customer events 
Social media
Trade showsAnnual shareholders meeting  
Quarterly earnings calls
Annual shareholder outreachLong-term community 
partnerships
Employee volunteering
Board participation by 
employees
Community grants
KEY 
ISSUESEmployee engagement 
Recognition and appreciation
Inclusion and diversity
Health and wellbeing
Learnng and developmentOutstanding service
Privacy and data security
Product qualityESG matters
Executive compensation 
Financial performanceFinancial support
Volunteering
Support of thriving 
communitiesOUR APPROACHENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  9lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Risk management
As an insurer that helps millions of people gain affordable access to financial 
protection benefits at the workplace, risk management is essential to our ability 
to meet the needs of our customers while maintaining and growing our business. 
Our commitment to sound risk management, our values, and the development of 
our people are the foundation upon which we build and operate our company. Our 
strategic priorities include strengthening our risk management capabilities through 
data and analytics and taking a disciplined risk management approach to pricing 
and claims.
In addition to our Executive Risk Management Committee that manages our 
overall risk profile, we believe risk management must be the responsibility of all 
employees. That’s why we’ve established a culture that supports candid discussion 
and reporting of risks while empowering our employees to take ownership of 
risk management. The individual and collective decisions of our employees play 
a key role in successfully managing our overall risk profile. As a result, we strive 
for a culture of accountability that supports our risk management framework and 
regulatory compliance.
We believe these values allow our employees to feel comfortable identifying issues 
and taking ownership for addressing potential problems and directing solutions.We employ a decentralized risk management model under which risk-based decisions 
are made daily on a local level. 
Risk identification and prioritization is an ongoing process whereby we identify 
and assess our risk positions and exposures, including notable risk events. Our 
Enterprise Risk Management framework leverages the broad expertise and 
diverse viewpoints of our employee base to monitor for risks. In addition, the 
company seeks additional inputs and perspectives from outside parties such as 
trade groups, consultants, business periodicals and networks. The risks identified 
through these channels include:
 •  Changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can 
significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from our products;
 •  Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by consumer 
confidence, the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses, medical 
improvements, and general health impacts for demographic changes; and
 •  Physical risks related to changes in weather events and shifts in climate, 
as well as transition risks related to the process of adjusting toward a low-
carbon economy.OUR APPROACHENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  10lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Sustainable Development Goals
Cybersecurity & Privacy
page 32Protecting cybersystems and networks from theft, damage and disruption 
and ensuring security particularly as it relates to managing customer and 
employee data and privacy
 Employee Attraction,  
Retention, & Development
pages 19-28Providing a great place to work for employees through professional 
development opportunities, safe and healthy workspaces, fair  
compensation, benefits, recognition and engagement8: Decent Work & Economic Growth
Governance, Compliance,  
& Ethics
pages 6-7; 11-12Ensuring ethical and transparent conduct by Unum including  
anti-corruption, policy compliance and transparency, fair sales  
practices, and fair competition16: Peace, Justice, & Strong Institutions
Inclusion & Diversity
pages 19-23Promoting a culture of diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity  
at all levels of the organization5: Gender Equality
10: Reduced Inequalities
Product Social  
Impact
page 4Assessing the social impacts of our products and consideration of the 
environmental and social trends that impact our products12: Responsible Consumption & Production
Communities
pages 14-18Enabling community engagement and development to create  
positive impact within communities11: Sustainable Cities & Communities
17: Partnerships for the Goals
GHG Emissions
pages 38; 42Measuring and reducing direct emissions, emissions from purchased 
power, and emissions where Unum has some influence (for example, air 
travel, employee commuting, and emissions from investments)7: Affordable & Clean Energy
13: Climate Action
Facility Environmental  
Management
pages 38-40; 42Increasing energy efficiency, waste diversion, and water efficiency  
in all of Unum’s operations6: Clean Water & Sanitation
7: Affordable & Clean Energy
12: Responsible Consumption & Production
13: Climate Action
Human Rights
pages 11-12; 34Ensuring all operations, business relationships and investments are 
subject to consideration of human rights8: Decent Work & Economic Growth
Socially Responsible  
Supply Chains
page 34Ensuring ethical, fair, and responsible sourcing across Unum’s  
suppliers through due diligence8: Decent Work & Economic Growth
9: Industry Innovation & Infrastructure1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10Materiality
In 2019, we started work with an external consultant 
for the first time to conduct a materiality assessment 
to better understand which environmental, social, 
governance and emerging issues matter most to Unum’s 
stakeholders, including investors, clients, employees, 
and non-governmental organizations. The materiality 
assessment provides valuable stakeholder feedback, and 
we’ll continue to expand our dialogue with stakeholders.
We’ve also reviewed our materiality assessment results in 
context of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. The 
SDGs aim to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure 
prosperity. You can learn more about the SDGs online. 
The materiality assessment also helps us understand risk 
drivers and growth opportunities. We view sustainability 
as a journey, and we focus on continuous improvement 
in addressing these topics.
106
95 842
731
 Environmental       Social       Governance/Economic       Financial ServicesBUSINESS IMPACTSTAKEHOLDER RELEVANCEMORE
LESSMOREOUR APPROACHENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  11lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
A culture of integrity
OUR CODE OF CONDUCT
Unum’s culture of integrity is guided by our Code of Conduct , a roadmap 
of nine principles for doing the right thing, every time, for our company, 
our customers, our colleagues, ourselves and our world. Our Code guides 
employees on how to abide by Unum’s principles and access resources to 
address any ethical issues that may arise.
Make choices that reflect our values and protect our good name
Speak up and report issues or concerns
Be honest, fair and trustworthy in all that you do
Treat others with respect
Keep private and confidential information confidential
Avoid conflicts of interest – real or perceived
Respect company property
Maintain a safe and healthy workplace
Be responsible in your communications 
Unum 2019 ESG Report   11l
PUTTING OUR CULTURE OF 
INTEGRITY TO WORK
All employees participate in an annual 
curriculum of training on our Code of 
Conduct (which includes a mandatory 
affirmation and highlights ethical dilemmas), 
conflicts of interest (which includes a 
mandatory affirmation), anti-harassment, 
inclusion and diversity, privacy, and 
information security awareness. 
We produce regular Code of Conduct 
awareness campaigns and include the Code 
as part of our Annual Ethics Week, which 
includes senior leadership communications, 
contests, prizes and employee engagement 
on multiple internal platforms. As part of 
our integrity toolkit, our “Speak Up and Tone 
at the Top” video features our business 
leaders candidly discussing the importance 
of integrity and always doing the right thing. 
We also make ethical decision trees and 
FAQs available to all employees.OUR APPROACHENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  12lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
SPECIALIZED RESOURCES AND SUPPORT FOR PEOPLE MANAGERS  
People managers are on the front line of our efforts to foster a 
culture of integrity. We support them with specialized tools such 
as our Leading with Integrity handbook and toolkit.
We also provide manager culture training on how managers can 
lead by example, foster a speak-up culture in which employees 
can raise concerns without fear of retaliation, and how to identify 
and address concerns that may surface, and appropriately 
escalate ethical or compliance concerns. 
WHISTLEBLOWER PROGRAM 
Unum is committed to speaking up because it’s the best way to 
foster trust in our culture. We offer employees multiple channels 
they can use to report ethical concerns.
24X7 HOTLINE 
We have a 24x7 hotline that is managed by an industry-leading 
hotline vendor and allows for anonymous reporting. Employees 
can find information about the hotline on our intranet, within our 
Code of Conduct , and in our employee newsletters. The Ethics 
Office also advises on the hotline during people manager training 
sessions.
In addition to the hotline, employees can communicate ethical 
concerns to any member of management, the Ethics Office, 
directly to the Chief Ethics Officer, Chief Compliance Officer 
or General Counsel, or to individuals on the People and 
Communications team.ANTI-RETALIATION AUDITING PROGRAM  
Six months after an ethics matter has been closed, we connect 
with each reporter to verify that no retaliation has taken place.
FINANCIAL CRIMES COMPLIANCE PROGRAM 
Unum has a dedicated global Financial Crimes Program designed 
to ensure its compliance with applicable laws and regulations 
related to money laundering, terrorism financing, bribery, 
corruption, and sanctions violations. This program includes 
appropriate policies, internal monitoring to detect suspicious 
activities, and requirements that all employees receive mandatory 
Financial Crimes Compliance Training. 
Unum does not tolerate any payments or transfer of benefits 
to third parties made for the purpose of obtaining an unfair 
business advantage or persuading a third party to make a 
decision they would otherwise not make. Our U.S. Anti-Fraud 
Policy also addresses bribery and corruption as it may relate to 
our third parties. 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST PROGRAM  
Our Conflicts of Interest program complements our Financial 
Crimes program, our Code of Conduct  and our Culture of 
Integrity. Our global Conflicts of Interest policy includes behavior 
guidance for various types of conflicts of interest and links to 
topic-specific policies and resources. In addition to real-time 
reporting expectations, employees are required to complete an 
annual training module on conflicts of interest (both real and 
perceived) and sign an annual affirmation. WORKING TOWARD GREATER PROACTIVE QUALITY ASSURANCE  
Our goal is to do more proactively to verify compliance with our 
Code of Conduct. For example, we conduct regular audits of 
internal controls and work to identify gaps or issues that could 
create risk.
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE  
We have developed and implemented a robust internal system 
designed to help us ensure compliance with applicable laws 
and regulations. This system helps us accurately represent our 
product and service offerings to customers.
PROGRAM OVERSIGHT  
Our Culture of Integrity has strong C-suite and Board engagement 
and support. The Regulatory Compliance Committee of the Board 
oversees the compliance program and regularly receives reports 
from the Chief Compliance Officer, and the Audit Committee  
oversees the hotline for accounting and auditing matters. Trends 
are communicated transparently to leadership on a regular basis. 
Our Global Ethics Committee is staffed by our Chief Compliance 
Officer, Chief Ethics Officer, Chief Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, 
head of employment law, head of employee relations, head of 
HR Unum UK, and the Chief Ethics Officer and Chief Compliance 
Officer for Unum Poland.
We take a comprehensive approach to resolving all concerns 
reported, thoroughly investigating all reports and taking 
appropriate action as needed.OUR APPROACHOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  13lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SOCIAL
Helping people and communities thrive
SOCIAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report   13lOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  14lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
In many of the communities where we operate, we’re 
one of the largest employers. We believe this makes it 
incumbent on us to engage with our communities to 
increase their strength and resilience. This is one of our 
core values and is reflected in our long-standing tradition 
of giving back.
Every year, we direct significant resources to organizations 
and initiatives that support workforce development in 
our communities by focusing our giving on education, 
health and wellbeing, and arts and culture.
Currently, as coronavirus continues to spread across 
the United States, many of the local communities Unum 
employees call home are feeling its impact. There are 
countless examples of people stepping up to help their 
neighbors during this very difficult time, and we’re 
working hard to evaluate and assess ways for the 
company and its employees to get involved, too. So far, 
we’ve contributed nearly $300,000 to COVID-19 relief 
efforts, and we anticipate further giving. We’ve focused 
our efforts on health and access to critical services, 
equitable access to learning, and food insecurity.SOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  15lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Education 
Our outreach programs are primarily focused on public education. 
We’re committed to supporting organizations that grow strong 
individuals and school leaders, more successful communities, and 
a prepared future workforce. To that end, we partner with public 
schools, businesses and community leaders. Over half our charitable 
contributions each year go to education. We focus on long-term 
relationships with our nonprofit partners.Unum developed the Education Leaders Experience in 2012. It has since 
grown into a cross-state initiative. The program, which is funded by Unum and 
Colonial Life, offers educators in Maine and South Carolina a unique professional 
development opportunity to meet community and business leaders. Educators 
learn about what is happening in each state’s economy and the critical role 
education plays in sustaining growth. Past participants have formed unique 
partnerships with businesses that have provided exciting learning opportunities 
for students. Educators have also used the experience to launch entrepreneurial 
educational initiatives and services. All participants widen their networks of 
colleagues to draw upon after their program is complete. ELE is administered 
in Maine by Educate Maine and in South Carolina by the Center for Educational 
Partnerships at the University of South Carolina.
56%
Percentage of charitable 
contributions that go to 
education, compared to  
55% in 2018.
Quality 
EducationSOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  16lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Health and 
wellbeing 
We support organizations that provide programs and 
services to improve the wellbeing of individuals and 
communities. We partner with organizations that 
help people with disabilities lead independent and 
fulfilling lives.
TRANSFORM HOUSING & SUPPORT  
Based in Leatherhead, Surrey, U.K., Transform Housing & Support helps homeless and vulnerable people to transform 
their lives. Many of those referred to Transform have experienced a family breakdown or domestic abuse situation, 
and arrive with no possessions at all, or any formal identification. Transform’s role is to support them by enabling them 
to gain practical life skills, build up their confidence, and help them to access training, education and employment. 
However, without identification, this process can’t even begin. A charitable grant from Unum has enabled the charity to 
provide at least 80 people with various forms of identification such as passports, driving licenses and birth certificates, 
enabling them to access welfare benefits, enroll at college, seek employment, open a bank account, and apply for a 
Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) certificate before starting work. And just as importantly, this grant enables them to 
access rented accommodations when they eventually move on from Transform. 19%
Percentage of total support 
given to organizations that 
promote health and wellbeing, 
compared to 18% in 2018.
Good Health 
& Wellbeing
SOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  17lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Arts and culture 
We believe a truly vibrant community includes engaging outlets and 
opportunities for cultural education. We understand for a community to 
reap the benefits of these institutions, it needs to provide opportunities 
for students to use these places to connect classroom curricula with  
real-world experience.For more than a decade, Unum has partnered with the Hunter Museum of 
American Art to provide school children with a positive field trip experience that will 
support their education by helping spark curiosity and developing observation and 
communication skills. This partnership provides programming to support the needs 
of diverse audiences of educators and more than 500 students K-12 in Chattanooga, 
Tennessee. There is a special focus to support the Hamilton County Department 
of Education Title 1 schools and their teachers to provide opportunities to visit the 
Museum and continue their learning through classroom lessons. 
6%
Percentage of giving 
devoted to arts and culture, 
compared to 7% in 2018.Quality 
EducationSOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  18lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Community giving and 
employee contributions
Total monetary amount of contributions
■ Cash contributions by company  
■ Cash contributions by employees  
■ In kind contributions by employees  
■ In kind contributions by company$9.4M1
$9.0M
$2.2M$1.75M2
$3.12M1
$1.65M
$890K $500K2019 Total
$15.16M2018 Total
$13.35MNumber of hours volunteered
122,954
We encourage employee engagement in community outreach by providing time off 
for volunteer activities and matching employee giving to qualified organizations. We 
seek skill-based volunteering opportunities for our company-sponsored programs. 
Total amount donated by Unum in matching gifts
$1,336,442
Our matching gifts program lets us directly support our employees’ philanthropic 
efforts to nonprofit organizations and educational institutions. The program 
matches eligible gifts from a minimum of $50 to an aggregate maximum gift of 
$10,000 per employee, per calendar year.
Amount donated by Unum to schools in matching gifts
$591,170*
We provide matching gifts on a $2-for-$1 basis to accredited colleges, 
universities, graduate schools, secondary and elementary schools within 
the United States and Canada. 
Amount donated by Unum to match employee volunteering
$84,000* 
We also match $1 for each hour an employee volunteers, from a minimum 
of 50 hours ($50) up to 500 hours ($500) per year. And for each qualified 
walk, run, or bike event our employees participate in, we contribute $50  
to the beneficiary nonprofit. 
1 Includes Unum Poland  
2 Results impacted by a cybersecurity issue with an outside partner* Included in the $1.3 million for matching gifts
SOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  19lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Our success is built upon the performance 
of our people. We seek to retain and develop 
highly qualified, diverse and dedicated 
individuals across our workforce. SOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  20lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Employee 
engagement 
The wellbeing of our employees is one of our top priorities and 
starts with a dynamic and welcoming workplace that embraces 
diversity, fosters collaboration and encourages employees to 
bring their best ideas to work every day.
We’re listening to what our employees have to say through 
feedback from employee engagement surveys, our ethics 
hotline and other methods to ensure we remain true to our 
values and provide a positive culture where everyone can thrive. 
On a biennial basis, we conduct full employee engagement 
surveys. In 2019, we achieved an 87% response rate, which 
is even with our 2017 response rate (87%). We also conduct 
employee pulse surveys on a more frequent basis. Quick Statistics  (each figure represents 10% except for total number of employees)
 11,072
Total number of employees1 (Each figure represents 1,000 people) 95%
Percent of full time employees
 89.5%
Percent of total employees located in the U.S.  5%
Percent of part time employees
 10.5%
Percent of total employees located outside of the U.S.  65%
Percent of female employees
Percent of total employees located in the U.K. — 7%  
Percent of total employees located in the Ireland — 1%  
Percent of total employees located in the Poland — 2%
 35%
Percent of male employees
1 Includes all full-time employees, part-time employees, on-call benefit counselo rs, and internsSOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  21lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Inclusion and 
diversity
Diversity among employees—with their varying 
perspectives and talents—enriches our organization, 
products, and services, the communities in which we 
live and work, and each other. 
Our commitment to inclusivity and diversity is reflected in 
our Office of Inclusion and Diversity. Every day, this office 
demonstrates our approach to inclusion and diversity: If you help 
the entire person and give them as much flexibility as possible, 
they can bring their best authentic self to their team every day.
Our Office of Inclusion and Diversity includes targeted recruitment 
initiatives, such as at the Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
Innovation Challenge, where we brought together 30 students 
from HBCUs for a two-day immersive business case competition. 
We also attend and recruit at conferences such as those for the 
National Association of Black Accountants and the Association of 
Latino Professionals For America. Our Bias-Free Recruiting Work 
Group reviews our recruiting process from the job application 
process all the way to onboarding to ensure a continued focus on 
equity in hiring practices.
Our strong inclusion and diversity focus continues after recruits 
become employees. Our Inclusion Council and Diversity Leadership 
Council guide our efforts and have established a number of 
initiatives that support inclusion and diversity, including:CHAMPIONS PROGRAM
This program increases awareness and introduces practical 
strategies that can be used to strengthen inclusive leadership skills. 
In 2019, we had 668 participants in our Champions Program. In 
2020, we plan to add an emphasis on cultural competence.
SELF-ID CAMPAIGN
This campaign improved data related to LGBTQ+, Abilities, and 
Veteran populations.
POWER TO INCLUDE SPEAKER SERIES
This series brought nationally acclaimed speakers to Unum 
in 2019 to highlight dimensions of diversity and to move the 
organization on its inclusive continuum. HOLIDAYS@UNUM CAMPAIGN
We increased visibility of diverse holiday celebrations with this 
special campaign.
SAFE SPACE CONVERSATIONS
Our safe space conversations are casual talks regarding inclusion 
and belonging. We have safe space conversations at staff 
meetings or as specific events. One such event was Gratefull, a 
fall lunch and conversation gathering with 300 participants. 
ERG MENTORSHIP PROGRAM
In 2019, this program, which pairs employee resource group 
members with mentors, had 330 participants. Our Reverse 
Mentoring Program connects senior leaders with employees of 
various levels and backgrounds.
In keeping with our commitment to ongoing advancement in 
inclusion and diversity, we have joined the following initiatives:
 • CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion
 •  Paradigm for Parity Coalition (commitment to achieve pay parity 
by 2030)
 • Armed Forces Covenant (U.K.)
 • Women in Finance Charter (U.K.)
 • HBCU Business Partnership Challenge
SOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  22lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
With 13% of our employees participating, our employee resource 
groups represent the full spectrum of what makes us unique and  
are an integral component of Unum’s commitment to driving  
change in inclusion and diversity. These employee-led groups guided 
programming dedicated to educating our workforce and maintaining 
an inclusive culture, including panel discussions that teach employees 
how their coworkers’ identities affect their experiences in the workplace, 
sponsorship programs to help advance women to the next level of 
leadership, and onboarding efforts to ensure veterans are supported 
during their transition into the civilian workforce. 
Our current ERGs are:
 • Ability ERG
 • LGBTQ+ ERG
 • Race & Ethnicity ERG
 • Veteran’s Networking Group
 • Women’s Professional NetworkINCLUSION AND DIVERSITY GOVERNANCE 
Our Inclusion Council consists of employees 
from across the enterprise who are 
committed to inclusion and diversity in the 
workplace. Council members collaborate to 
ensure inclusion is part of every aspect of the 
way we do business.
Our Diversity Leadership Council is 
responsible for the strategic direction and 
leadership required for the success of our 
inclusion and diversity initiatives. The Council, 
which consists of members of Unum’s senior 
leadership team and the Office of Inclusion 
and Diversity, focuses on driving strategies 
that ultimately result in increasing diverse 
representation at all levels.
SOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  23lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
At Unum, we strive to foster a workplace culture of belonging where our 
employees, customers and partners see themselves in every aspect of our 
business. To ensure we reflect the diversity of our customers and the people we 
do business with, we practice bias-free recruiting and are focused on increasing 
underrepresented groups for targeted roles. We’re also involved in targeted 
recruitment initiatives such as the Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
Innovation Challenge. 
Unum, in partnership with The Company Lab in Chattanooga, created the HBCU 
Innovation Challenge in 2019 and selected 32 juniors and seniors from 10 states 
to participate. With very little preexisting knowledge of the insurance industry, 
the students were divided into teams, assigned business coaches and given less 
than 24 hours to come up with a business case to pitch. 
Some of the ideas pitched included divorce insurance, a voice-activated 
insurance app named Vivi and extended family coverage.
The students gained real-world work experience and met peers from around 
the country — and four teams won a total of $10,000 in cash prizes for their 
business cases. 
The inaugural event was also a win for Unum. The experience gave students a 
better understanding of the benefits industry and longer-lasting relationships with 
their coaches and with Unum that could impact their career trajectory. Unum’s 
Office of Inclusion and Diversity is set to make the Innovation Challenge an annual 
event with the goal of providing future participants internships with the company.
Looking for the next 
generation of leadersSOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  24lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Learning and 
developmentA great place to work is one where people of 
every background have the tools to grow and 
reach their full potential. At Unum, we place a 
strong emphasis on training and professional 
development for all levels of our workforce. 
All employees have one-to-one coaching 
sessions with their managers. On a quarterly 
basis, managers summarize conversations 
with meaningful documentation that focuses 
on key accomplishments, progress toward 
goals, and other areas of focus. Managers and 
employees also review what’s next to help 
align activities with company goals. We believe  
continuous conversations help all employees 
and managers work more effectively. 
We actively manage talent and focus on 
succession across the enterprise, especially 
at the officer level. Our People group and 
our senior leaders actively review succession 
pipelines twice a year.SOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  25lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Here are just some examples of our commitment 
to the growth and development of our employees: 
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT
Career development workshops:  In 2019, 
34% of employees who participated in career 
development workshops had a promotion or 
lateral move since the workshop, and 100% 
of managers feel prepared to more effectively 
navigate their career following the workshop. 
Tuition reimbursement: We support the 
professional development of our employees 
through our tuition assistance program. It 
offers full-time employees up to $5,250 in 
annual tuition reimbursement and part-time 
employees up to $1,500 per year. 
MANAGER DEVELOPMENT
Inside-out coaching for managers:  We provide 
all our managers with workshops that focus on 
building the coaching capabilities of our people 
managers with a goal of elevating workforce 
performance. 
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT
Leader academy: This online digital learning 
program provides the development focus 
needed for all leaders: interpersonal 
effectiveness, change, problem solving, and 
elevating performanceThe Professional Development Program: This 
rotational multi-year leadership development 
program focuses on employees who have the 
potential and aspiration to become senior 
leaders in our company.
Heart of a change leader: This program 
focuses on the leadership challenges of change 
and equips managers with the tools and 
approaches that can ensure team success.
The Actuarial Development Program: This 
rotational multi-year program focuses on the 
attainment of Fellow of the Society of Actuaries 
designations for our actuarial students, along 
with a strong focus on the leadership skills 
needed for current and future success.
Officer development and coaching: Officers 
at Unum have access to various development 
opportunities, including executive coaching 
engagements for some and opportunities for 
career growth and development for all. We 
provide employees and managers with a variety 
of training and development programs tailored 
to their specific roles.
SOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  26lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Total Rewards
Our Total Rewards program, which is available to all full-time and part-time 
employees, focuses on physical, emotional, and financial wellbeing. The program 
is one more way we aim to attract and retain talent, knowing that workers who 
aren’t getting what they want from their employer will often look for better 
benefits elsewhere.
We pay competitive wages, offer a performance- 
based annual incentive and have a variety of 
recognition programs ranging from our Spotlight 
program to the CEO Award that enable us to 
effectively compete for talent in our target 
markets. Additionally, we have pledged to 
implement the Paradigm for Parity 5-Point 
Action Plan, which is designed to help companies 
accelerate the pace of achieving gender parity. 
The five points are:
 •  minimize or eliminate unconscious bias;
 •  significantly increase the number of women 
in senior operating roles;
 •  measure targets at every level 
and communicate progress and  
results regularly; •  base career progress on business results 
and performance, not on presence; and
 •  identify women of potential and give them 
sponsors, as well as mentors.
Another employee benefit is flex working, 
including work-at-home arrangements. Flex 
working is highly effective for some employees 
and helps reduce our environmental footprint 
through reduced commuting.
PHYSICAL AND EMOTIONAL
We encourage wellness in all its forms, 
including:
 •  paid parental leave for six weeks and 
$25,000 per employee in fertility benefits. 
This year, we increased our adoption 
assistance to $25,000; •  our telehealth program via Teladoc, 
available 24x7;
 •  our Healthy Rewards program allows 
employees to earn dollars or raffle points, 
and earn rewards by completing activities 
and challenges. In 2019, our employees 
earned $200,000 via our Healthy Rewards; 
 •  our state-of-the-art health resource centers 
and fitness centers in all main offices are 
available to all employees for free, if the 
employee uses the gym at least eight times 
per month;
 •  we offer diet and nutrition support via 
registered dietitian nutritionists at our  
major campuses; 
 •  mothers’ rooms and lactation support 
programs are available at all main 
campuses and field offices;
 •  our campuses are tobacco-free, and we 
offer tobacco cessation programs;
 •  to encourage healthy eating, we subsidize 
healthy foods at cafeterias in our home 
offices, at a cost of over $800,000. 
Approximately one-third of meals sold in 
2019 were healthy; and  •  our Work-Life Balance employee assistance 
program provides free counseling for 
employees and their spouses, children, and 
in-laws on a range of issues.
FINANCIAL 
We offer all full-time and regular part-time 
employees financial benefits including: 
 •  retirement savings plan with a company 
match of 5.0%, and an additional annual 
defined contribution of 4.5%;
 •  no-cost financial planning tools and 
resources;  
 •  contribution to 529 plans for employees’ 
children;
 • student debt relief program;
 •  employee paid and voluntary financial 
protection benefits; and  
 •  Employee Stock Purchase plan offering U.S. 
employees the opportunity to purchase 
Unum Group stock at a 10% discount on 
the closing stock price at the end of the 
purchase period.SOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  27lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
When our employees bring their best to work, it benefits Unum in the form 
of better productivity, higher morale and reduced turnover. That’s why Unum 
offers a wide suite of benefits to attract and retain the best and brightest talent 
and to help our employees thrive. Two of our newest benefits include our 
student debt relief program and our family planning benefits.  
Student debt relief 
Many people face the challenge of balancing student debt with planning for 
their financial futures. In fact, student loan debt has tripled over the past 
decade, and studies suggest rising debt is hurting employees’ focus at work, 
their overall wellbeing and their retirement planning. In 2019, Unum announced 
a first-of-a-kind student debt relief program where employees can trade carry 
over paid time off days toward payments against student debt. Employees 
across four generations participated in the program, saving 423 participants 
$625,201 in principal and estimated interest payments.
Family planning benefits  
Adoption is an important avenue to consider for people growing their families, 
but it can be expensive. Offering financial support to employees expanding 
their families is another way we can help working parents thrive. Starting in 
2019, employees who adopt a child can receive a one-time benefit of $25,000. 
This matches what we provide for infertility support, too. And the company also 
introduced six weeks of paid parental leave for new parents — for both moms 
and dads — after the birth, adoption or foster of a child.Helping our 
employees thrive
SOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  28lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Awards 
 • 2019 Civic 50 Honoree from Points of Light
 • 2019 Bloomberg Gender Equality Index 
 • 2019 America’s Best Employers for Women by Forbes 
 •  2019 Honored by the Women’s Forum of New York for 30% of Board 
positions held by women
 •  2019 Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality by the Human Rights 
Campaign 
 •  2019 Gold level recognition from the National Business Group  
on Health (NBGH) as a Best Employer: Excellence in Health 
& Wellbeing 
 •  2019 Excellence in Health & Wellbeing by the National Business 
Group on Health
 • 2018 Disability Equality Index Best Places to Work 
 • Recognized by Plan Sponsor as a Best In Class 401(k) plan sponsor  
 •  Recognized by Pensions and Investments and the DCIIA for 
Excellence and Innovation   
SOCIALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  29lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
When we thrive, so do our stakeholders
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
Unum 2019 ESG Report   29lOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  30l
Making the 
right decisionsUnum’s investment decisions on our $46 
billion portfolio represent a significant 
component of our corporate responsibility 
footprint. Intensive research, disciplined 
processes and focused portfolio 
construction are foundational to our 
commitment to reliable investing. The Risk 
and Finance Committee of our Board of 
Directors has oversight of our investment 
activities and reviews and approves our 
investment policies annually.RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  31l
Responsible 
investment 
decisions
Our investment philosophy is to deliver consistent 
long-term returns while keeping risks at appropriate 
levels so we can deliver on our promises to 
policyholders and stakeholders. We strive to 
be responsible stewards of our assets within a 
framework of strong governance and transparency. INTEGRATING ESG FACTORS 
As part of this effort, we’re working 
to further integrate ESG factors 
into all investment decisions. Our 
research analysts have a strong 
understanding of the companies 
in which we invest and consider all 
relevant factors that contribute to 
informed investment decisions. 
As long-term investors, we look at 
ESG components and include them 
in our assessment of an investment’s 
key strengths and key risks:•  We recognize the importance of ESG issues to all our stakeholders.
•  We incorporate relevant factors, including those considered to be 
environmental, social and governance factors, into our analysis of the long-
term performance outlook of a company and the value of its securities. 
•  We’re working to enhance the systematic integration and understanding of 
ESG factors in our investment processes.
•  We’ve begun a comprehensive review of our overall ESG evaluation efforts 
to continuously improve our assessments of investment’s key strengths 
and risks.
•  We believe in prudent risk management and diversification to limit our 
exposure to market risks. Our investment policies are designed to limit 
exposures to companies, sectors, asset classes and geographies to protect 
against idiosyncratic events. We assess these risks using portfolio modeling 
and stress testing.RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  32lPrivacy and 
data security 
We’re committed to protecting the confidentiality of 
any personal information our customers provide. 
Unum has an integrated privacy and security 
approach that includes a robust Information Security 
Program. Key components of our program include:
POLICIES AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Our comprehensive Information Security Program is based on 
international regulatory requirements and industry best practices 
that consist of policies, standards and guidelines are available to 
all our employees
INFORMATION AND DATA PROTECTION
Unum’s integrated information security and privacy approach 
ensures any relevant issues are thoroughly addressed in a 
timely manner.
NETWORK SECURITY
Networks are managed and controlled to protect information 
within our environment. We take a multi-layered approach to data 
security ensuring layers of security throughout our computing 
environment, which limits access to sensitive systems and data.THREAT INTELLIGENCE
We engage other businesses, the data intelligence community and 
industry organizations to share information about cyber threats. 
ACCESS MANAGEMENT
Identity and access management ensures users are only assigned 
the minimum privileges necessary to complete required tasks. 
Access is reviewed routinely and modified as needed.
CHANGE MANAGEMENT
Unum uses automated processes to help ensure any changes to 
our computing environment are authorized, tested and approved 
before implementation.
ONGOING EFFECTIVENESS
Unum continues to perform evaluations internally and through 
leading consulting firms to test our business processes, 
applications and technical controls.
BUSINESS RESILIENCY
Unum takes many precautions to minimize the potential for a 
computer system outage and to ensure critical business systems 
are seamlessly available to support its customers. Routine testing 
is performed to validate our resiliency.REGULATORY INFORMATION
Unum is highly regulated by a variety of state, federal 
and international entities, and subject by law to periodic 
examinations by state and federal insurance regulators in which 
business is conducted. 
EMPLOYEE AWARENESS
Unum employees and contractors are required to regularly 
complete Information Security and Privacy awareness training 
covering topics contained within our Information Security 
policies as well as common threats such as Social Engineering 
and Phishing.
Unum’s governance structure includes a Chief 
Information Security Officer and a Chief Privacy 
Officer who establish and oversee policies and 
procedures to protect the privacy and security of 
the data we hold. We back up this commitment with 
several key policies, including Internet and Offline 
Privacy Notice and Policy, Gramm Leach Bliley 
Privacy Notice, HIPAA Compliance, and Privacy and 
Information Protection. 
To learn more about how we protect our customers’ 
privacy, please see our  Privacy webpage .RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  33lPublic advocacy 
We’re committed to working with government to build strong 
partnerships that offer innovative solutions, and to ensure valuable 
financial protection remains widely accessible and affordable. We 
strive to create positive change every day for our customers and 
communities, including by raising public awareness of the need for 
financial protection benefits.
Many employees in the U.S. and U.K. still lack access to affordable 
financial protection benefits that help them face the unexpected 
challenges of illness or injury. Every dollar employers spend offering 
these benefits significantly reduces the need for government-funded 
support and the burden on taxpayers. 
We’re committed to partnering with policymakers and public and private 
institutions in both countries to find ways to help more people gain 
access to this critical protection. At the same time, we’re dedicated 
to responsibility with transparency and political accountability. The 
positions disclosed in our policy statement form the basis of all political 
spending decisions.
Read our Public Policy.
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  34lResponsible 
purchasing and 
sourcing 
In 2019, we refreshed our Supplier Code of Conduct, which establishes 
company standards that include ethical business practices and 
regulatory compliance. Suppliers must adhere to this Code of Conduct 
while conducting business with or on behalf of Unum. Additionally, in 
keeping with our commitment to become the most inclusive, diverse, 
and welcoming company in the area of employee benefits and beyond, 
we seek to work with suppliers who retain and develop highly qualified, 
diverse and dedicated individuals at all levels of their organization. 
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OUR APPROACH SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  35lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Caring for the planet so all can thrive
ENVIRONMENTAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report   35lENVIRONMENTALOUR APPROACH SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  36lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
At Unum, we’re committed to helping protect 
the valuable resources we all depend on to 
support quality of life for everyone. We do that 
by striving to effectively manage and reduce 
our impact on the environment. ENVIRONMENTALOUR APPROACH SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  37lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
We’re committed to helping protect the valuable resources we all depend on to 
support quality of life for everyone. And, because many of our people share a 
personal commitment to conserving resources and protecting our environment, 
we look for ways to get employees involved. For example, over the past three 
years, nearly 900 employees from our Chattanooga campus have volunteered 
more than 6,100 hours to improve a swath of land on the side of Lookout 
Mountain that was overgrown with invasive plants and filled with decades-
worth of trash and debris.
The 50-acre site is managed by the Lookout Mountain Conservancy, an 
organization created to protect Lookout Mountain’s scenic, historic and 
ecological resources and to use conservation as a tool to provide environmental 
education and leadership training for middle and high school students.
An army of Unum employees, local students and other volunteers have 
transformed the park into a beautiful place for people to enjoy. In the process, 
they removed more than 900 tires, built a trail system, created a 27-boulder 
bouldering park, reclaimed hillsides from invasive plants and restored other 
areas with native grasses. They also helped create a labyrinth and built bird 
houses and bee hotels.
And while the measurable impact of Unum’s involvement is impressive, the 
work has had an immeasurable impact on our employees as well: They were 
part of something bigger than themselves, built a special place for others to 
enjoy and established a sense of pride, belonging and purpose.Caring for the 
world around usENVIRONMENTALOUR APPROACH SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  38lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Reducing carbon 
emissions and 
electricity usage 
Climate change is a serious challenge for the world and will have impacts 
on our business. While we continue to assess the exact implications 
of various climate change scenarios on our operations, we’ve made 
significant strides in several areas to measure our impact and improve 
efficiencies to reduce our carbon footprint. Our largest direct impact is 
the energy used to power our facilities. Along with an evolving energy 
management program, Unum is committed to reducing its carbon 
footprint by improving its energy efficiency. In 2019, we upgraded lighting 
controls, and existing building automation controls for HVAC equipment to 
increase energy efficiency. We aim to reduce our carbon footprint by 3% 
per year, and we are proud to say we surpassed this in 2019. 
Our greenhouse emissions are calculated in line with the standard GHG 
reporting protocol and audited by a third party. This year, we improved 
our reporting of emissions from employee commuting and emissions from 
international facilities. We adjusted our 2018 reporting to reflect these 
improvements. You can learn more about our approach to reducing our 
climate impact within our Carbon Disclosure Project reporting. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
U.S. International Total
2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019
Scope 1 emissions  
(metric tons CO2e)7,526 6,493        193        193 7,719 6,686
Scope 2 emissions  
(metric tons CO2e)21,379 19,299 1,043 1,043 22,422 20,342
Scope 3 emissions  
(metric tons CO2e) 33,832 33,490 –           –       33,832 33,490
Total emissions 
(metric tons CO2e)62,737 59,282 1,235 1,235 63,972 60,518
Emissions per employee 
(CO2e per person)–           –  –           –  5.78 5.47
% emissions reduction since 2018 –           –  –           –  – -5.4%ENVIRONMENTALOUR APPROACH SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  39lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Waste 
In 2019, we introduced a multimillion-dollar Workplace Strategy program 
to develop collaborative spaces while helping us minimize our impact 
on the environment. Efficiency features include lighting control systems 
that use motion sensors and daylight harvesting, touch-free faucets and 
flush valves to reduce water consumption, and more than 18,000 new 
LED lights resulting in a projected annual savings of two million kilowatt 
hours per year.
Our Workplace Strategy program also reflects our “waste less, recycle more” 
approach to minimizing waste by providing centralized waste and recycling 
stations that make it as easy as possible for our employees to reduce waste 
and recycle properly. This table shows waste production and recycling in our 
U.S. and international offices from 2018 to 2019. Our waste was higher in 
2019 than 2018 due to the impact of implementing our Workplace Strategy 
program. We’re continuously evaluating our programs to look for more 
effective ways to reduce waste and increase recycling.WASTE REDUCTION AND RECYCLING
U.S. International Total
2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019
Total waste produced in facilities 
(Metric tonnes)         1,288 1,420        232         232  1,520 1,652
Total amount recycled  
(Metric tonnes)          592 522 – –           592 522 
% change in total waste 
produced since 2018–           –  –           –  – 8.7%ENVIRONMENTALOUR APPROACH SOCIAL ABOUT THIS REPORT
Unum 2019 ESG Report  40lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Water 
Recognizing water is a limited resource, we’ve made conserving a 
key part of our water usage strategy and emphasize sustainable 
management of the water we use. Because most of our water 
consumption comes from employee activity and our facilities, we’re 
focused on improving monitoring systems, setting meaningful goals 
and improving our overall water efficiency. In 2019, we remodeled 
restroom facilities to ensure we’re using water-efficient fixtures. 
This table compares water use from 2018 to 2019 in our U.S. and 
international locations. WATER USE
U.S. International Total
2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019
Total water use 
(kgal)51,932 51,817 5,411 5,411 57,343 57,228
% water reduction since 2018 –           –  –           –  – -0.2%ENVIRONMENTALOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report  41lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
About this report 
We use our Environmental, Social and Governance Report to share how 
we measure and manage the impact our company has on our customers, 
communities and environment. It also highlights how we’re creating a 
workplace where each employee is valued and respected. 
This report covers 2019 calendar year results and includes data collected from 
January 1 to December 31, 2019. Some data has been rounded. Monetary 
figures are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted. For information concerning 
the current calendar year, please refer to the company’s latest quarterly 
reports and other filings with the SEC. These documents are available online at 
investors.unum.com.
Information in this report has been reviewed by the Governance Committee 
of the Unum Group Board of Directors and reflects the company’s operations 
and facilities in the U.S., U.K., Poland, and Ireland for which Unum holds the 
majority financial stake. 
For more information regarding the contents of this report, contact Unum’s 
Corporate Communications department at corpcomm@unum.com.UNUM GROUP 
1 Fountain Square  
Chattanooga, TN 37402
CORPORATE OFFICES 
In the U.S. 
1 Fountain Square  
Chattanooga, TN 37402  
U.S. 423-294-1011 
1200 Colonial Life Boulevard  
Columbia, SC 29210  
U.S. 803-798-7000 
2211 Congress Street  
Portland, ME 04122  
U.S. 207-575-2211 
1 Mercantile Street  
Worcester, MA 01608  
U.S. 774-437-4441 In the U.K. 
Milton Court  
Dorking, Surrey RH4 3LZ  
U.K. +011 44-1306 887766 
In Ireland 
2nd Floor Merchant House 
Shamrock Plaza  
Tullow Street, IRE1A  
Carlow, Ireland +353 (059) 9178100
In Poland
Unum Życie Towarzystwo 
Ubezpieczeń i Reasekuracji Spółka 
Akcyjna, al. Jana Pawła II17, 00-854  
Warsaw, Poland +48 22 329 30 00ABOUT THIS REPORT
Forward-looking statements  Certain information in this report constitutes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are those not based on historical information, but rather relate to our outlook, future operations, 
strategies, financial results, or other developments and speak only as of the date made. These statements may be made directly in this report or may be made part of this report by reference to other documents filed by us with the SEC, a practice which is known as “incorporation by reference.” You can find many 
of these statements by looking for words such as “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “plans,” “assumes,” “intends,” “projects,” “goals,” “objectives,” or similar expressions in this report or in documents incorporated herein. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees 
of future results and are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. The following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: 
(1) major public health issues, including the COVID-19 pandemic; (2) sustained periods of low interest rates; (3) fluctuation in insurance reserve liabilities and claim payments due to changes in claim incidence, recovery rates, mortality and morbidity rates, and policy benefit offsets; (4) unfavorable economic or 
business conditions, both domestic and foreign, that may result in decreases in sales, premiums, or persistency, as well as unfavorable claims activity; (5) changes in, or interpretations or enforcement of, laws and regulations; (6) a cyber attack or other security breach could result in the unauthorized acquisition 
of confidential data; (7) the failure of our business recovery and incident management processes to resume our business operations in the event of a natural catastrophe, cyber attack, or other event; (8) the failure of our business recovery and incident management processes to resume our business operations 
in the event of a natural catastrophe, cyber attack, or other event; (9) investment results, including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, defaults, changes in credit spreads, impairments, and the lack of appropriate investments in the market which can be acquired to match our liabilities; (10) increased 
competition from other insurers and financial services companies due to industry consolidation, new entrants to our markets, or other factors; (11) changes in our financial strength and credit ratings; (12) our ability to develop digital capabilities or execute on our technology systems upgrades or replacements; 
(13) actual experience in the broad array of our products that deviates from our assumptions used in pricing, underwriting, and reserving; (14) availability of reinsurance in the market and the ability of our reinsurers to meet their obligations to us; (15) ability to generate sufficient internal liquidity and/or obtain 
external financing; (16) damage to our reputation due to, among other factors, regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, external events, and/or inadequate or failed internal controls and procedures; (17) effectiveness of our risk management program; (18) contingencies and the level and results of litigation; 
(19) ineffectiveness of our derivatives hedging programs due to changes in the economic environment, counterparty risk, ratings downgrades, capital market volatility, changes in interest rates, and/or regulation; (20) fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates; and (21) recoverability and/or realization of the 
carrying value of our intangible assets, long-lived assets, and deferred tax assets.
For further discussion of risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, and our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-
Q. The forward-looking statements in this report are being made only as of the date of this report, and we expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this report, even if made available on our website or otherwise.OUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report  42lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE 
WSP has conducted an independent third party review of Unum Group’s (Unum) 2019 greenhouse 
gas (GHG) and water inventories with the intention of providing limited assurance of their accuracy 
and completeness. Given that there are no verification standards specific to water, principles of 
GHG verification were adapted and applied. The scope of the review includes all water sources, all 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission sources, and Scope 3 emissions from business travel and employee 
commuting. The GHG and water inventories apply to all owned and leased facilities under Unum’s 
operational control.
WSP provided a “Review Findings” report for the GHG and water inventories to Unum which lists 
in detail the specific review tasks completed and areas which have been flagged for clarification or 
improvement. Unum has addressed all requests for clarification and has completed all necessary 
corrective actions. The details of the scope of this assurance review can be found in Table 1.
ASSURANCE FINDING 
Based on these review processes and procedures, WSP has no evidence that Unum’s 2019 GHG and 
water inventories are not materially correct, are not a fair representation of the corresponding data 
and information, or have not been prepared in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
WSP has conducted this limited assurance review in its capacity as an independent third party 
in accordance with the ISO 14065 International Standard, Greenhouse gases — Requirements 
for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation or other forms of 
recognition. ISO 14065 specifies the principles and requirements employed by WSP to make this 
assertion. WSP has not contributed to the compilation of Unum’s 2019 GHG or water inventories 
and members of the Assurance Team are not working with Unum’s 2019 GHG or water inventories 
beyond what is required of this assignment.
Sincerely,
Eric Christensen  
Project Director  
WSPAssurance Parameter Specification
GHG Calculation and Reporting Protocol GHG The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (Revised Edition)
Water Guidance adapted for water from:
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard (Revised Edition)
Verification Standard GHG ISO 14064-3
Water Verification guidance adapted for water from: ISO 14064-3
Level of Assurance GHG and Water Limited
Organizational Boundary GHG and Water Operational control
Geography GHG and Water Global operations
Inventory Period and Emissions Covered GHG and Water January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019
Scope 1 GHG 6,686 metric tons CO2e 1
Scope 2 Location-Based GHG 20,342 metric tons CO2e (all Scope 2 sources)
Scope 2 Market-Based GHG 20,342 metric tons CO2e (all Scope 2 sources)
Scope 3 GHG Category 6 Business Travel: 5,631 metric tons CO2e 2
Category 7 Employee Commuting: 27,859 metric tons CO2e
Water Water 57,227,740 gallons
Supporting Documents Reviewed GHG and Water GHG Inventory Management Plan
Emissions calculation spreadsheets
Water data aggregation spreadsheets
Energy and water purchasing data
Business travel emissions calculations
Employee commuting emissions calculations
Date Review Complete May 7, 2020
Brennen Walsh 
Lead Reviewer 
WSP1 Scope 1 fugitive emissions from refrigerants are not included.  
2 Business travel emissions include commercial air travel and rental cars.  
3 Waste includes total mass diverted from landfill disposal.ABOUT THIS REPORTOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report  43lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Topic SASB Accounting Metric Code Response
Transparent Information & Fair Advice for 
CustomersTotal amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with marketing and communication of 
insurance product related information to 
new and returning customersFN-IN-270a.1Unum discloses all material legal proceedings in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requirements. Please see the Commitments and 
Contingent Liabilities footnotes in Unum’s Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2019 (“10-K”).
Complaints-to-claims ratio FN-IN-270a.2 Unum does not disclose this.
Customer retention rate FN-IN-270a.3 Unum does not disclose this.
Description of approach to informing 
customers about productsFN-IN-270a.4We offer group, individual, voluntary, and dental and vision products as well as provide certain fee-based services. These products and services, which can be sold 
stand-alone or combined with other coverages, help employers of all sizes attract and retain a stronger workforce while protecting the incomes and livelihood of 
their employees. We believe employer-sponsored benefits are the most effective way to provide workers with access to information and options to protect their 
financial stability. Working people and their families, particularly those at lower and middle incomes, are perhaps the most vulnerable in today’s economy yet are 
often overlooked by many providers of financial services and products. For many of these people, employer-sponsored benefits are the primary defense against the 
potentially catastrophic fallout of death, illness, or injury.SASB index 
Disclosures are influenced by Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s Insurance Sustainability Accounting Standard (SASB). This report covers 2019 calendar year 
results and includes data collected from January 1 to December 31, 2019. For information concerning the current calendar year, please refer to the company’s latest 
quarterly reports and other filings with the SEC. These documents are available online at investors.unum.com.ABOUT THIS REPORTOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report  44lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Topic SASB Accounting Metric Code Response
Incorporation of Environmental, Social, 
and Governance Factors in Investment 
ManagementTotal invested assets, by industry and 
asset classFN-IN-410a.1Unum discloses information about total invested assess within the company’s 10-K. 
For information on stock and bond investments, see Part II, Item 8, Note 4 in the 10-K (page 136).
At December 31, 2019, our open derivatives were primarily foreign exchange interest rate swaps, which are used to hedge the currency risk of certain foreign 
currency-denominated fixed maturity securities owned for portfolio diversification. Under these swap agreements, we agree to pay, at specified intervals, fixed rate 
foreign currency denominated principal and interest payments in exchange for fixed rate payments in the functional currency of the operating segment. The total fair 
value of these derivative instruments at December 31, 2019 was $(7.1) million.
For information on mortgage loans on real estate, see Part II, Item 8, Note 4 in the 10-K (page 141).
Our real estate balance as of December 31, 2019 is $90.5 million, or 0.16% of total invested assets, thus it is deemed immaterial. See Part II, Item 7, MD&A, 
Investments in the 10-K (page 78). 
For information on our exposure to industries by monetary amount, see Part II, Item 7, MD&A, Investments in the 10-K (page 78).
For information on our exposure by credit quality, see Part II, Item 8, Note 4 in the 10-K (page 137).
Description of approach to incorporation 
of environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) factors in investment management 
processes and strategiesFN-IN-410a.2 Please refer to pages 30-31 of this report.
Net premiums written related to energy 
efficiency and low carbon technologyFN-IN-410b.1 This topic is not relevant for Unum.ABOUT THIS REPORTOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report  45lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Topic SASB Accounting Metric Code Response
Policies Designed to Incentivize Responsible 
BehaviorDiscussion of products and/or product 
features that incentivize health, safety, 
and/or environmentally responsible 
actions and/or behaviorsFN-IN-410b.2See pages 38-40 for information on Unum’s work to reduce emissions from an operational perspective.
Unum’s core products offer financial safety, through disability, accident, critical illness, dental and vision insurance. Unum also offers several products and services 
that are designed to incentivize health and safety, such as:
Work-life Balance Employee Assistance Program  
Unum’s work-life balance EAP can help employees prepare for the unpredictable — and keep small struggles from turning into major issues1. With this program, they can 
receive guidance and support for issues that take their attention away from your business. And that means they can be more productive, both at work and at home.
Emergency travel assistance  
Even the most thorough itinerary can’t prevent lost medication, accidents or sudden illnesses. So help your employees prepare — with Unum’s worldwide emergency 
travel assistance2. This service is available 24/7 to employees when they travel 100 or more miles away from home, whether for work or pleasure.
HR®/BenefitsAnswersNow™ 
Plan administrators and managers have a responsibility to stay current on employment laws and insurance guidelines. HR/BenefitsAnswersNow3 puts all the answers 
you need in one place. These two constantly updated online libraries contain HR compliance and benefits information.
Coverage of routine examinations and preventive testing 
Annual benefit for routine examinations or other preventive testing encourages responsible health management. This is only available in select states.
Return to Work and Stay at Work programs 
Unum’s Vocational Rehabilitation Consultants (VRC) and Certified Disability Management Specialist (CDMS) helps clients determine eligibility for a Rehabilitation 
and Return to Work Assistance program. These personalized services include activities such as resume preparation and job development. Unum’s VRCs and CDMSs 
can also help clients develop an individualized return-to-work plan that may include coordinating services with employers or exploring adaptive equipment and 
job accommodations that allow clients to work. Unum also offers occupational exploration services, to help clients get back to a productive lifestyle, in a career that 
matches up with capabilities.
Paid leave benefit 
Our Paid Leave benefit is offered in select states and provides wage replacement when individuals need to stop working for items such as child bonding, care for a 
loved one and one’s own health issues.
1 The Work-life balance employee assistance program, provided by LifeWorks, is available with select Unum insurance offerings. Terms and availability of service are subject to change. Service provider does not 
provide legal advice; please consult your attorney for guidance. Services are not valid after coverage terminates. 
2 Worldwide emergency travel assistance services, provided by Assist America, Inc., are available with select Unum insurance offerings. Terms and availability of service are subject to change and prior notification 
requirements. Services are not valid after coverage terminates. 
3 HRAnswersNow® and BenefitAnswersNowTM, provided by CCH, are available with select Unum insurance offerings. Terms and availability of service are subject to change. Service provider does not provide legal 
advice; please consult your attorney for guidance. Services are not valid after coverage terminates. ABOUT THIS REPORTOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report  46lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Topic SASB Accounting Metric Code Response
Environmental Risk ExposureProbable Maximum Loss (PML) of 
insured products from weather-related 
natural catastrophesFN-IN-450a.1 This topic is not relevant for Unum.
Total amount of monetary losses 
attributable to insurance payouts from 
(1) modeled natural catastrophes and 
(2) non-modeled natural catastrophes, 
by type of event and geographic segment 
(net and gross of reinsurance)FN-IN-450a.2 This topic is not relevant for Unum.
Description of approach to incorporation 
of environmental risks into (1) the 
underwriting process for individual 
contracts and (2) the management of 
firm-level risks and capital adequacyFN-IN-450a.3Unum identifies and assesses the financial impact and probability of risks, including climate change, natural disasters, epidemics and related risks.  We consider 
these risks as part of our economic capital calculation, and we utilize stress testing and scenario analysis for risk management and to shape our business, financial, 
and strategic planning activities. These are key components of our risk appetite framework and play an important role in monitoring, assessing, managing, and 
mitigating our primary risk exposures.  We also incorporate environmental risks into our group underwriting process by setting concentration thresholds related to 
several factors, including natural disaster risks.
Systemic Risk ManagementExposure to derivative instruments by 
category: (1) total potential exposure to 
noncentrally cleared derivatives, (2) total 
fair value of acceptable collateral posted 
with the Central Clearinghouse, and 
(3) total potential exposure to centrally 
cleared derivativesFN-IN-550a.1For information, please refer to Unum's 10-K, including Risk Factors contained in Item 1A; "Critical Accounting Estimates" and the discussion of investments in 
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained in Item 7; "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market 
Risk" in Item 7A; and Notes 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained in Item 8 for information on our investments and derivative 
financial instruments.
Total fair value of securities lending 
collateral assetsFN-IN-550a.2 For information, see Part II, Item 8, Note 3 in the 10-K (page 143).
Description of approach to managing 
capital and liquidity-related risks 
associated with systemic non-insurance 
activitiesFN-IN-550a.3Our products have minimal disintermediation risk and we generally hold excess capital at the holding company to meet unexpected events or liquidity needs.  We 
have minimal exposure to systemic non-insurance activities, such as repo or securities lending.  We had no repurchase agreements outstanding at December 31, 
2019, nor did we utilize any repurchase agreements during 2019.  As of December 31, 2019, we did not hold cash collateral from securities lending agreements, and 
we had $186.5 million of off-balance sheet securities lending agreements which were collateralized by securities that we were neither permitted to sell nor control.  
Generally, our reinvestment guidelines are very conservative, primarily the 7-day gap restriction, which limits the size of our securities lending program.
Activity metricNumber of policies in force, by segment: 
(1) property and casualty, (2) life, (3) 
assumed reinsuranceFN-IN-000.A Unum covers approximately 39 million lives worldwide through disability, life, accident, critical illness, dental and vision policies.ABOUT THIS REPORTOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report  47lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Disclosure Response
General Disclosures
Organizational profile
102-1 Name of the organization Unum Group
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services See the "About Unum" section on page 4 of this report.
102-3 Location of headquarters1 Fountain Square  
Chattanooga, TN 
United States 37402
102-4 Location of operations Unum has over 130 office locations across four countries.
102-5 Ownership and legal form Unum is publicly listed on the NYSE as UNM.
102-7 Scale of the organization Unum has over 11,000 employees. Business highlights can be found on page 47 of our 2020 proxy statement
102-8 Information on employees and other workers See the "Employee engagement" section on pages 20-27 of this report.
102-9 Supply chain N/A
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain There have been no significant changes during the reporting period.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Unum has a comprehensive approach to managing risks, but has not formally adopted the ‘precautionary principle.’ See "Risk Management" section on page 9 of this report.
102-12 External initiatives See the "Communities" section on pages 15-18 of this report.
102-13 Membership of associations See our Public Policy Website .
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker See the "CEO letter" on page 3 of this report.
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior See the "A culture of integrity" section on page 11 of this report.
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics See the "Whistleblower program" section on page 12 of this report.GRI index
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI standards: Core option.ABOUT THIS REPORTOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report  48lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Disclosure Response
Governance
102-18 Governance structure See the "Our leadership" section on page 6 of this report.
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups See the "Stakeholder engagement" section on page 8 of this report.
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Unum does not report on collective bargaining because we consider the terms (i.e., wages) to be confidential.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our recent materiality assessment drew feedback from internal and external stakeholders, including investors, clients, employees, and non-governmental organizations.
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement See the "Stakeholder engagement" section on page 8 of this report.
Reporting practice
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised See the "Materiality" section on page 10 of this report.
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements See Unum's Form 10-K filing.
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries See the "Materiality" section on page 10 of this report.
102-47 List of material topics See the "Materiality" section on page 10 of this report.
102-48 Restatements of information Unum has not restated any information.
102-49 Changes in reporting There were no significant changes in scope or boundary during the reporting period.
102-50 Reporting period This report covers 2019 calendar year results and includes data collected from January 1 to December 31, 2019.
102-51 Date of most recent report Our last report was published in 2018.
102-52 Reporting cycle We report on our sustainability progress annually.
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report To contact Unum in relation to our sustainability efforts or this GRI Index, email us at corpcomm@unum.com.
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Unum is reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards.
102-55 GRI content index See the "GRI Index" section on page 44 of this report.
102-56 External assurance See the "Statement of Assurance" section on page 42 of this report.
GRI Standard Disclosures
Economic standards
Material topic: Governance, compliance, and ethics  
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary See the "Our leadership" section on page 6 of this report.
103-2 The management approach and its components See the "Our leadership" section on page 6 of this report.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See the "Our leadership" section on page 6 of this report.ABOUT THIS REPORTOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report  49lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Disclosure Response
Environmental Standards
Material topic: Facility environmental management  
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage", "Waste", and "Water" sections on pages 38 - 40 of this report.
103-2 The management approach and its components See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage", "Waste", and "Water" sections on pages 38 - 40 of this report.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage", "Waste", and "Water" sections on pages 38 - 40 of this report.
303-3 Water withdrawal See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage", "Waste", and "Water" sections on pages 38 - 40 of this report.
Material topic: GHG emissons  
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage" section on page 38 of this report.
103-2 The management approach and its components See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage" section on page 38 of this report.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage" section on page 38 of this report.
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage" section on page 38 of this report.
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage" section on page 38 of this report.
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage" section on page 38 of this report.
305-4 GHG emissions intensity See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage" section on page 38 of this report.
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions See the "Reducing carbon emissions and electricity usage" section on page 38 of this report.
Social Standards
Material topic: Employee attraction, retention, and development
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary See the "Employee engagement" section on page 20 of this report.
103-2 The management approach and its components See the "Employee engagement" section on page 20 of this report.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See the "Employee engagement" section on page 20 of this report.
Material topic: Inclusion and diversity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary See the "Inclusion and diversity" section on pages 21-23 of this report.
103-2 The management approach and its components See the "Inclusion and diversity" section on pages 21-23 of this report.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See the "Inclusion and diversity" section on pages 21-23 of this report.
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees See the "Our leadership" and "Employee engagement" sections on pages 6-7 and 20 of this report.ABOUT THIS REPORTOUR APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
Unum 2019 ESG Report  50lRESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 
Disclosure Response
Material topic: Communities  
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary See the "Helping people and communities thrive" section on pages 14-18 of this report.
103-2 The management approach and its components See the "Helping people and communities thrive" section on pages 14-18 of this report.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See the "Helping people and communities thrive" section on pages 14-18 of this report.
Material topic: Socially responsible supply chains  
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary See the "Responsible purchasing and sourcing" section on page 34 of this report.
103-2 The management approach and its components See the "Responsible purchasing and sourcing" section on page 34 of this report.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See the "Responsible purchasing and sourcing" section on page 34 of this report.
Material topic: Cybersecurity & privacy  
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary See the "Privacy and data security" section on page 32 of this report.
103-2 The management approach and its components See the "Privacy and data security" section on page 32 of this report.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See the "Privacy and data security" section on page 32 of this report.
Material topic: Product social impact  
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary See the "A business for good" section on page 4 of this report.
103-2 The management approach and its components See the "A business for good" section on page 4 of this report.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See the "A business for good" section on page 4 of this report.
Material topic: Human rights  
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary See the "A culture of integrity" section on pages 11-12 of this report.
103-2 The management approach and its components See the "A culture of integrity" section on pages 11-12 of this report.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See the "A culture of integrity" section on pages 11-12 of this report.ABOUT THIS REPORT1 Fountain Square, Chattanooga, TN 37402  
unum.com