LIVINGOUR VALUES
VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
*  Pre-Verizon/MCI mer ger results 
**   Statistics r eﬂect the ef fect of the V erizon/MCI mer ger, which closed in January 2006 
   Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE: VZ), a Dow 30 company , is a leader in delivering br oadband and other communications innovations 
to wir eline and wir eless customers. V erizon operates America’ s most r eliable wir eless network, serving 51.3 million customers nationwide, 
and one of the nation’ s premier wir eline networks, serving home, business and wholesale customers. Based in New Y ork, V erizon closed 
on a mer ger with MCI, Inc., on January 6, 2006. T oday , Verizon has a diverse workfor ce of appr oximately 250,000 and generates annual 
consolidated operating r evenues of appr oximately $90 billion. For mor e information, visit http://www .verizon.com. OPERA TING STATISTICS**
Verizon Wireless
U.S. Wir eless Customers 51.3 million
U.S. Markets Served with Wir eless Assets 49 of top 50
States with Wir eless Pr esence 49+ D.C.
Verizon Telecom
U.S. Wir eline Access Lines 48.8 million
Wireline Br oadband Connections 5.1 million
Verizon Business
International Pr esence 140+ countries
Customer Relationships 94 per cent of Fortune 500
Information Services and International
Directory Cir culation 129 million
Customers Served by Latin American/  
Caribbean Operations10 million wir eline, wir eless  
and br oadband connections
Total Employees 250,181 (99,773 union represented)FINANCIA L STATISTICS*
(as of year -end 2005)
2005 Operating Revenues $75.1 billion
2005 Net Income, Befor e Special Items $7.2 billion
2005 Capital Expenditur es $15.3 billion
Shareowners 2.7 millionVERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
CONTENTS
 2 Message fr om V erizon’ s Chairman and CEO
 4 Living Our V alues
 8 Ethics and Gover nance
 14 Service and Innovation
 22 Empowering Employees
 30 Promoting Community Gr owth
 36 Protecting the Envir onment
 42 Partnering with Communities
A Hopeful Horizon 
Melissa Her nandez and Dar ell 
Bush monitor r ooftop equipment 
in Mt. Hope, Br onx, N.Y ., which 
is providing br oadband Inter net 
access to underserved ar eas. 
We thank Harvar d Business School Pr ofessor  
Dr. Lynn Sharp Paine for her counsel. In her book, 
Value Shift: Why Companies Must Merge Social 
and Financial Imperatives to Achieve Superior 
Performance,  Dr. Paine employs the metaphor 
of a compass to assist organizations in 
meeting their social and ﬁnancial goals. W e 
are grateful for Dr . Paine’ s permission to use 
the “V alues Compass” in this r eport and in 
our communications with employees.CUSTOMER DEMANDS 
FOR SPEED, MOBILITY 
AND INTERACTIVITY ARE 
TRANSFORMING THE WORLD 
OF COMMUNICATIONS. 2Ivan Seidenberg, Chairman 
and CEO, pr esents 
Verizon’ s vision at 
Georgetown University’ s 
Literacy Summit in 
Washington, D.C. MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIR MAN A ND CEOLIVIN G OUR VALUESVERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 
VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
3A COMP ANY’S REPUT ATION  is mor e than its 
performance in the ﬁnancial markets. It is the totality 
of a company’ s identity: the quality of its people, 
the value of its brand, its standing in the community 
and its performance in the marketplace. Building 
reputation, in this br oad sense of the term, is what 
great companies ar e all about.
We are pleased to shar e what V erizon is doing 
to ear n our r eputation in our 2005 Corporate 
Responsibility Report, “Living Our V alues.” As in our 
last r eport, we will cover our accomplishments and 
challenges in six ar eas:
• Ethics and Gover nance
• Service and Innovation
• Empowering Employees
• Promoting Community Gr owth
• Protecting the Envir onment
• Partnering with Communities
With mor e than 250,000 employees and tens of 
millions of customers, V erizon has an extraor dinary 
range of opportunities for touching the lives of our 
stakeholders. Every time we interact with a customer , 
an investor , or a member of the community , we deﬁne 
who we ar e and what we stand for . 
That’ s why it’ s imperative that we have 
a disciplined and consistent appr oach for 
translating our values into action. As you will see 
throughout this r eport, we took major strides 
in 2005 to r einfor ce our values and integrate 
them into the way we run our company .
We start by putting customers ﬁrst and delivering 
great communications experiences.
We operate accor ding to the V erizon 
values of integrity , respect, performance 
excellence and accountability .
Remembering that gr eat companies ar e judged 
not by what they say , but by what they do, we cr eate 
the systems, tools and pr ocesses that enable our 
employees to use our values to make decisions and 
run the business.Most of all, we do it every day .
At Verizon we believe deeply in the power of 
technology to empower , to teach, to entertain and 
to connect. W e are tremendously fortunate to have 
a positive vision of the futur e and the r esour ces to 
act on our beliefs. W e have acted boldly to cr eate 
the infrastructur e that will stimulate the gr owth and 
innovation that will drive the economy forwar d and 
open new cr eative opportunities for customers. And 
we have ener gized our people ar ound the idea of 
creating a futur e for themselves and contributing 
something of lasting value to society . 
As I visit employees acr oss V erizon, I can sense 
their pride at being part of a company that’ s taking 
charge of its own futur e. They ar e passionate about 
putting customers ﬁrst. They hold one another—and 
themselves—accountable for delivering outstanding 
service with the highest of ethical standar ds.
And just as they’ve done thr oughout our history , 
our people come thr ough for their customers and 
communities. Whether they’r e responding to the 
tsunami in Asia or Hurricane Katrina on the Gulf 
Coast, inventing new ways to make our technology 
accessible, or going the extra mile to solve a 
customer’ s problem, V erizon employees continue to 
demonstrate the moral ﬁber and can-do spirit that is 
built into the foundation of our company .
Actions r eveal character , in people and in 
institutions. W e hope to show you in this r eport 
how our employees ar e living our values and, in the 
process, deﬁning the character of V erizon.
Ivan Seidenber g, Chairman and CEOLIVING OUR VALUES
“ OUR COMMITMENT IS  
TO PUT OUR CUSTOMERS’ 
INTERESTS FIRST AND TO 
INCORPORATE OUR VALUES 
INTO EVERYTHING WE DO.”
IVAN SEIDENBERG , Chair man and C EO
LIVIN G OUR VALUES
4In the Line of Duty  
In the wake of Hurricane Katrina it  
was imperative that communications 
services wer e up and running. Maur een 
Breault, who traveled 1 ,440 miles 
to Louisiana, was one of hundr eds 
of Verizon employees who assisted 
in reconnecting the Gulf Coast’ s 
communications lifelines. 5TO BE SU CCESSFUL IN TODA Y’S CHALLENGING  global economy , 
a corporation needs a for ceful statement of its values and a 
clearly deﬁned framework that incorporates those values into 
the decision-making of its employees at every level. Good 
corporate citizens integrate their corporate values int o their 
business practices, operations and policies. These values serve 
as a guide that employees use when they consider the impact 
of their business decisions and activities on the customers and 
communities they serve. 
In 2005, V erizon took major steps to r einfor ce our corporate 
values and to give our people the decision-making tools they 
need to live our values every day . Our values guide our focus on 
the customer , the high standar ds we set for our performance on 
the job and in the marketplace, and our r espect for each other 
and the communities wher e we live and work. VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
5LIVIN G OUR VALUES
6REFRESHING OUR VALUES
2005 marked V erizon’ s ﬁfth anniver -
sary. We used this occasion to focus 
on our cor e beliefs and to r einvigorate 
the importance of our values. Our ap -
proach to this pr ocess was far -ranging 
and in-depth: we conducted meetings 
with a cr oss section of employees, 
spoke with other leading corporate 
citizens about how values guided their 
business practices, examined our 
existing value statements and cr edos, 
and held extensive discussions among 
the senior leadership about what 
Verizon stands for and who we ar e.
The r esult of these ef forts is the 
Verizon Commitment and V alues,  
on the next page. 
PUTTING OUR VALUES INTO ACTION 
Great companies ar e judged by what 
they do, not by what they say . That’ s 
why we developed a strategy for 
communicating the V erizon Com -
mitment and V alues to employees. 
We also developed a management 
process for weaving this values-
driven appr oach mor e deeply into the 
way we think and make decisions.
In 2005, senior managers met 
with their employees to discuss what 
the V erizon Commitment and V alues 
means for their work. In these discus -
sions, employees wer e reminded of 
their r ole as trustees of the V erizon 
reputation and that their everyday ac -
tions and decisions in the marketplace 
create the foundation of trust on which 
our business is built. 
We also emphasized that as a 
customer -focused company it is critical 
that our customers and stakeholders 
see our values in action every day , 
and that we consider the ef fect of our 
decisions on customers, investors, 
employees, policy-makers and the 
communities we serve. 
Earning a str ong r eputation r equir es 
that every employee place the custom -
ers’ inter ests ﬁrst and act in accor dance 
with our values. Ultimately our chal -
lenge is to ensur e that all employees 
understand the r ole they play in pr otect -ing and enhancing V erizon’ s reputation. 
By reinfor cing our values and pr oviding 
a tool for making everyday decisions, 
we took major strides in 2005 towar ds 
acting r esponsibly and building the 
reputation necessary to be successful 
in the intensely competitive br oadband 
and entertainment marketplace.
STAKEHO LDER ENGAGE MENT
Stakeholder viewpoints and feedback 
are important components to our  
decision-making pr ocess, and we  
have formal mechanisms to incorpo -
rate them. One of the ways we have  
cemented our r elationships with 
community or ganizations is thr ough 
the Strategic Alliances team, which 
consults and collaborates with 
more than 70 national or ganiza -
tions r epresenting a wide variety 
of viewpoints on the public-policy 
issues that af fect our industry . 
Verizon believes that long-term, 
collaborative r elationships with com -
munity gr oups foster bilateral dialogue 
and shar ed knowledge, and generate 
innovative ideas that beneﬁt customers 
and help V erizon to impr ove its pr od-
ucts, services and decision-making. 
Another mainstay of our stake -
holder outr each ef fort is the V erizon 
Consumer Advisory Boar d (VzCAB). 
The VzCAB is a 28-member boar d 
composed of leaders of diverse stake -
holder gr oups. The VzCAB partners 
with V erizon and pr ovides r egular 
feedback on a wide range of customer 
issues fr om new pr oducts to privacy . 
RESPONSI BLE DECISION-MAKING
To assist employees in using values as 
a guide for everyday action, we cr e-
ated a simple framework based on the 
idea of a compass. This framework, 
called “CR 360,” pr omotes an “Inside/
out—Outside/in” appr oach to making 
decisions:
• Inside/out—encourages employees 
to consider which V erizon values ar e 
relevant to a business decision and 
how they inﬂuence action.• Outside/in—helps employees 
examine which stakeholders might be 
affected by a decision.
To help make this framework a 
part of everyday life at V erizon, we 
created a one-day workshop focused 
on business challenges that cut acr oss 
departments. In particular , we of fered 
this workshop to managers involved in 
the deployment of our new ﬁber -optic 
broadband network, employees  
responsible for envir onmental 
and sour cing decisions, 
newly pr omoted 
supervisors and 
all new hir es.
In 2006, 
we plan to 
develop an 
online, inter -
active course 
that helps 
our employees 
consider our values 
and stakeholder concer ns 
when they make business decisions.
At Verizon, our interactions with 
customers, communities, suppliers 
and each other r eﬂect our commit -
ment to delivering excellent service 
and operating with the highest 
degree of integrity and r espect. The 
Verizon Commitment and V alues 
are the foundation for our cultur e 
and guide our every action.ProtectingOurReputationLivingOurValuesTrust/
Business
Freedom
THROUGHOUT THE REPOR T,  
LOOK FOR SPECIA L STORIES THA T 
DEMONSTRA TE OUR V ALUES  
IN ACTION AND EXE MPLIFY THE  
BEST O F VERIZON A T WORK IN  
THE CO MMUNITY . COMPASS POINTSGreat companies are judged by wha t they do,  not by wha t they say . To be the best,  we’re going to keep pushing ourselves in 
new and exciting directions.  These values will guide our ever y action.  VERIZON COMMITMENT
The Verizon commitment is to put our customers ﬁrst by providing excellent service and great 
communications experiences. This is what we do, and this is why we exist. By focusing on 
our customers and being a responsible member of our communities, we will produce a solid 
return for our shareowners, create meaningful work for ourselves and provide something of 
lasting value for society . As a r esult, V erizon will be r ecognized as a gr eat company . 
Integrity
Integrity is at the heart of everything  
we do. W e are honest, ethical and 
upfront because trust is at the 
foundation of our r elationships  
with our customers, our  
communities, our stakeholders  
and each other . 
Respect
We know it is critical that we r espect 
everyone at every level of our business. 
We champion diversity , embrace 
individuality and listen car efully when 
others speak.
 Performance  
Excellence
We hold ourselves to a very high 
standar d of performance. W e prize 
innovative ideas and the teamwork it 
takes to make them r ealities. W e never 
stop asking ourselves how we can 
make the customer experience  
better , and every day ,  
we ﬁnd an answer . VERIZON VALUESVERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
7Accounta bility
We take r esponsibility for our actions 
as individuals, as team members, 
and as an organization. W e work 
together , support one another and 
never let the customer—or our  
co-workers—down.“ THE REAL STRENGTH OF A 
COMPANY IS HAVING A CLEAR SET 
OF VALUES THAT GIVE A LARGE 
ORGANIZATION THE ABILITY TO 
MAKE THE RIGHT DECISIONS IN 
DIFFICULT MOMENTS.”
LIVIN G OUR VALUES8DOREEN TOBEN , Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerETHICS AND GOVERNANCEVERIZON IS A GLOBAL COMPANY in a competitive 
and complex industry . That’ s why the integrity 
of our r elationships with millions of customers, 
approximately 250,000 employees and 2 .7 
million shar eholders is so important to our 
business. As stakeholders hold corporations to 
ever-higher standar ds of conduct, it is critical 
that we maintain the foundation of trust that 
gives our actions legitimacy and ear ns us the 
freedom we need to serve our customers. 
This is one r eason our cor e values of 
integrity , respect, performance excellence 
and accountability have been a fundamental 
part of our cultur e throughout our history . 
A rigor ous code of conduct also guides our 
employees in helping to build a gr eat company . VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
9LIVING OUR VALUES
10CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Verizon has dedicated substantial 
resources to develop, implement and 
maintain a strong corporate compli-
ance program. Our program enables 
us to prevent, detect, and remediate 
violations of law, both domestically and 
internationally. The program recognizes 
the general oversight role of the board 
and assigns speciﬁ  c responsibilities 
to our executives and employees. Key 
elements of the program include:
Independent board members.
Strong corporate leadership by a 
diverse and independent board of 
directors is critical to serving the best 
interests of all of Verizon’s stakehold-
ers. Our board is composed of 13 
members—the CEO, representing 
Verizon’s leadership team, and 12 inde-
pendent members representing diverse 
points of view. The board is organized 
into four main committees: 
• Audit and Finance.  Oversees 
management in the performance of its 
responsibility to ensure the integrity 
of Verizon’s accounting and ﬁ  nancial 
reporting systems of internal controls 
and compliance with all legal and regu-
latory requirements. 
• Human Resources.  Oversees 
management in the development and 
implementation of human resources 
practices and policies, including 
succession planning to support the 
company’s strategic objectives, and of 
competitive management compensa-
tion and beneﬁ  t plans, including senior 
management plans. 
• Corporate Governance.  Pro-
vides oversight and guidance to the 
board of directors, ensuring that 
the membership, structure, poli-
cies and practices of the board and 
its committees facilitate the effec-
tive exercise of the board’s role 
in the governance of Verizon. •  Public Policy.  Reviews and 
provides guidance to the board on 
selected issues of signiﬁ  cance to 
Verizon, involving our charitable 
contribution policies; pension ben-
eﬁ  ts; safety; selected social, envi-
ronmental, regulatory and political 
matters; equal opportunity, diversity 
and human resources issues.
Accountability.  Our senior man-
agement team is responsible for the 
following critical compliance respon-
sibilities:
• Verizon’s Chief Compliance Of-
ﬁ  cer is the Senior Vice President and 
Controller, who monitors implementa-
tion of Verizon’s compliance program 
domestically and internationally, chairs 
Verizon’s Corporate Compliance Coun-
cil, and reports periodically to Verizon’s 
Management Audit Committee and an-
nually to the Audit and Finance Com-
mittee of Verizon’s board of directors. 
• Responsibility for oversight also 
rests with the Corporate Compliance 
Council, which is composed of 
representatives from various corporate 
functions including Legal, Internal 
Auditing, Security, Regulatory, 
International, Public Affairs and Human 
Resources (Ethics; Equal Employment 
Opportunity; and Environmental, 
Health and Safety), as well as Verizon 
Wireless and Verizon Business. The 
council meets monthly to review 
all aspects of Verizon’s business 
functions. 
• Responsible Compliance Execu-
tives   have been designated for each 
controlled subsidiary or business unit 
(including Verizon Wireless, Verizon 
Dominicana and Puerto Rico Tele-
phone). These executives (Vice-Presi-
dential level or higher) report quarterly 
to Verizon’s Chief Compliance Ofﬁ  cer 
on compliance matters, and are re-sponsible for implementing Verizon’s 
compliance program in their respec-
tive subsidiaries or business units.
Employee resources. Verizon 
has a strict Code of Business 
Conduct that describes each 
employee’s responsibility to conduct 
business with integrity and the high-
est ethical standards. In 2005, we 
revised Verizon’s Code of Business 
Conduct to make the code shorter, 
simpler and more “user friendly,” to 
reinforce the Verizon Commitment 
and Values, and to reﬂ  ect Verizon’s 
changing legal, regulatory and 
operational environment, including 
Sarbanes-Oxley. We will issue a new 
code in 2006, and all employees will 
receive code training in 2006. 
Employees can call a conﬁ  den-
tial, toll-free number to report and 
correct compliance violations and 
to seek assistance. The VZ Ethics 
and EEO GuideLine is available 24/7. 
In addition, in early 2006, Verizon 
introduced a new online procedure to 
receive anonymous submissions on 
ethics-related inquiries and concerns.
Our Security Department pub-
lishes a quarterly case-summary 
report of common security violations, 
including actions taken as a result 
of violations. The report is one of 
the most widely read publications in 
the company and serves to educate 
employees about Verizon’s ethi-
cal standards. We have found that 
providing employees with information 
about the discipline associated with 
code violations serves as an effective 
way to educate employees on ethical 
behavior.
Verizon’s corporate policy state-
ments provide guidance on key 
operational, regulatory, ﬁ  nancial, 
transactional and other relevant VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
11
T A L K I N G  A B O U T  V A L U E S
VERIZON CONTINUES SPONSORSHIP OF A LECTURE 
SERIES ON ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES
In February 2005, Verizon sponsored our seventh 
annual lecture series on business ethics at 
Bentley College in Waltham, Mass. The series is 
presented by Bentley’s Center for Business Ethics. 
It explores and analyzes how ethical conduct 
affects all aspects of a company’s operations. 
The series attracts business leaders, experts in 
the academic world, students and the public. 
“The relentless advance of information 
technology is constantly changing the world 
for the better, enhancing especially our abilities 
to communicate, learn and do business,” says 
Mike Hoffman, executive director of Bentley’s 
Center for Business Ethics. “But innovation 
and change also present new challenges and 
dilemmas for businesses and consumers. 
Verizon’s support serves as a reminder of the 
important roles technology and communications 
can play in doing business with integrity.” issues. During 2005, we revised and 
consolidated corporate policy state-
ments to reﬂ  ect the nature of Verizon’s 
changing regulatory and business en-
vironment, as well as its organizational 
structure and evolving operational 
needs. Revised policies are posted on 
Verizon’s intranet and employees are 
trained on the policies as appropriate.
Verizon also has an established 
Compliance Ofﬁ  ce with the primary 
function of ensuring that Verizon 
continues to meet its compliance 
obligations by:
• Assisting employees at all levels in 
understanding their obligations;
• Ensuring that compliance matters 
are addressed timely and effectively; 
and 
• Verifying that appropriate internal 
controls are in place to detect and 
avoid noncompliance. 
PROTECTING CUSTOMER PRIVACY
One of the ways Verizon’s values are 
actualized for the customer is through 
the work of our Chief Privacy Ofﬁ  cer 
(CPO). Our CPO is responsible for 
implementing policies and procedures 
that respect and protect customers’ 
private information. As customer con-
cern over such issues as identity theft 
and online fraud grows, Verizon wants 
customers to feel secure that their use 
of our many communications products 
will be just that: secure. 
The Internet Age requires us to 
step up efforts to protect the privacy 
of personal information we collect from 
customers. 
Verizon has adopted clear privacy 
principles: 
1.  Customers must be provided 
with notice of how their information is 
being managed; 2.  Customers must be provided with a 
choice as to whether or not they want 
their information disclosed; 
3.  Customers must be allowed access 
to information Verizon has collected 
about them to ensure the accuracy of 
that information; and 
4.  Verizon must undertake reason-
able security measures to ensure 
that customer information is man-
aged in a way that prevents un-
lawful access or disclosure. 
Verizon already has many internal 
controls to protect customer data. We 
restrict employee access to customer 
information to those with a business 
need to know, and we monitor the 
reasons for that access. 
Over the past year, we have 
strengthened the process used to ver-
ify customers’ identity before discuss-
ing their account or making changes 
to services. For example, we recently 
stopped asking existing customers for 
their Social Security numbers—or the 
last four digits of their Social Security 
numbers—as a means of identifying 
them when they call to order a new 
service or inquire about their accounts. 
Instead, we request that they give us 
information that is available only on 
their phone bills, for example, their 
customer codes, account codes, exact 
bill amounts, or the exact amounts of 
their most recent payments to us. 
Our Cyber Intrusion Response 
Team investigates any attempt 
to breach our systems, including 
virus threats and attacks. Our 
controls include: 
• Firewalls and intrusion detectors to 
protect our computer network against 
unauthorized access from outside or 
within the company;PRIVACY MATTERS
The high marks earned by our privacy efforts are due to our ongoing commitment to keep our privacy principles in line with advance-
ments in technology. In 2005, Verizon was the only communications company named by TRUSTe, an online privacy organization, and the 
Ponemon Institute, an information-management think tank, as one of America’s Top 10 Most-Trusted Companies for Privacy. Verizon’s 
Privacy Web site was also recognized by ComputerWorld  magazine as a site that offered its visitors the most protection and control over 
the use of their information. Finally, Verizon was ranked second out of 44 telecommunications and network companies relative to its privacy 
Web site in the fourth quarter 2005 Customer Respect Group rankings. Overall, Verizon tied for 24th out of the 464 companies rated.
C O M P A S S  P O I N T S
IntegrityLIVING OUR VALUES
12John Chandler 
(standing) and Tom 
Donahue (sitting/
foreground) are 
part of the team 
that protects the 
sensitive customer 
data carried on 
Verizon’s network.• Restrictions on which employees 
have remote access to our computer 
network; and
• Security procedures that must be 
followed to connect remotely to our 
computer network. 
We have also launched a new Web 
site that updates customers constantly 
on Internet and phone scams, with 
information on how to avoid being 
victimized. The site can be accessed 
at: http://www22.verizon.com/pages/
securityalerts.
In addition, Verizon Wireless’ 
record of protecting customer privacy 
puts the company at the forefront of 
the U.S. wireless industry. In 2005, 
Verizon Wireless won permanent 
injunctions against several companies 
that engaged in illegal telemarket-
ing to its customers, “spammed” 
its customers or attempted to 
obtain information about custom-
ers to sell to third parties using a 
practice known as “pre-texting.” 
Verizon Wireless also remains 
opposed to a public wireless-phone-
number directory and has pledged 
not to make its customers’ num-
bers available to any directory. The 
company continuously trains and 
updates employees, both cus-
tomer- and noncustomer-facing, on 
security measures and the need to 
keep customer records private.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & 
WORKPLACE CULTURE COUNCIL
In 2005, we created a Corporate 
Responsibility and Workplace Culture 
Council to foster a culture that delivers 
sustainable shareholder and stake-
holder value. The council is co-chaired 
by our Senior Vice President for Public 
Policy Development and Corporate 
Responsibility and our Vice President 
for Workplace Culture, Diversity and 
Compliance. It meets quarterly and 
includes senior managers from each 
of our major business segments. The 
council is responsible for identifying 
and addressing challenges associated 
with our corporate citizenship in key 
areas, including accessible-product 
design, broadband deployment, and 
supply-chain and environmental man-
agement. Ultimately, council members 
serve as corporate responsibility 
champions by helping their organiza-
tions institutionalize the Verizon values. 
Council leadership reports progress 
annually to the Public Policy Commit-
tee of the board.
VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
13SERVICE & INNOV ATION
LAWREN CE T. BABBIO , JR., Vice Chair man
“ OUR PLAN IS TO PUT OUR 
CUSTOMERS FIRST, CONTINUE  
TO INVEST IN OUR WORLD-CLASS 
NETWORK AND DELIVER ‘BEST  
IN CLASS’ CUSTOMER SERVICE.”
14All in a Day’ s Work
 Maintaining 99.99% 
network uptime is a 
commitment V erizon 
makes, and to do 
it, “we never stop 
working for you.”
LIVIN G OUR VALUES14VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
1515AT VERIZON OUR SINGLE MOST important commitment is to put 
customers ﬁrst. W e say as much in our V erizon Commitment and 
Values. This is what we do and this is why we exist. Everything  
else—shar eowner r eturn, meaningful work for employees and beneﬁts 
to society—ﬂows fr om this basic commitment to our customers.
Our commitment to our customers is r eﬂected in our focus on 
providing them with the speed, mobility , contr ol and quality they 
demand in today’ s communications marketplace. V erizon is investing 
more than any other communications company in America to 
deploy the nation’ s most advanced wir eless and wir eline br oadband 
networks. And, we’ve intr oduced innovative pr oducts and services  
that put the power of our networks in customers’ hands.Verizon’ s 
broadband video 
service gr ows 
bigger , brighter 
and clear er every 
day, thanks to the 
signals fr om this 
satellite dish farm 
in Tampa, Fla.
    LIVIN G OUR VALUES
16BUILDING BRO ADBAND’S FUTURE
Our extensive portfolio of br oadband 
technologies and pr oducts puts the 
speed and power of br oadband in the 
hands of an ever -increasing number 
of customers. With 5.1 million wir eline 
broadband customers, a rapidly gr ow-
ing number of wir eless br oadband 
users, and—with our acquisition of 
MCI—a major Inter net backbone and 
global IP network, we ar e progressing 
towar d our goal of being the leading 
broadband company in the industry .
There are a number of ways we put 
the power of br oadband to work for 
our customers. Our ef forts ar e based 
on the notion that br oadband can play 
an important r ole in the course of our customers’ everyday lives. Whether we 
are changing a child’ s lear ning experi -
ence with online str eaming video, help -
ing patients give medical information to 
doctors, or pr oviding the tools for rural 
businesses to compete on a “big-city” 
scale, we believe br oadband is the tool 
that can make it all happen. 
We have Digital Subscriber Line 
(DSL) available to just under 80 per cent 
of our wir eline customers. In urban 
areas this per centage incr eases to 91 
percent. W e continue to extend the 
reach of DSL to rural communities. 
From 2003 to 2005, we incr eased the 
availability of DSL -capable lines in 
rural ar eas by 8 per cent on a base of 
10.6 million lines. W e also doubled the speed of DSL for existing custom -
ers and of fered a new entry-level DSL 
product priced at $14.95, which has in -
troduced thousands of new customers 
to the beneﬁts of br oadband. These 
initiatives helped make 2005 our best 
year so far for br oadband gr owth.
We also ar e pioneers in the fast-
growing market for mobile br oadband. 
As of the end of 2005, we deployed 
third generation wir eless br oadband 
(EV-DO) to mor e than 160 million po -
tential customers, mor e than half  
the U.S. population. 
In addition, V erizon has begun to 
reinvent our wir ed networks with ﬁber 
technology that can deliver higher -
speed Inter net access, video and 
NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING
(IN BILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
 2003  2004  20059
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0WIRELINE
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
 2003  2004  2005
WIRELESSVERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
17also have intr oduced new services 
over our ﬁber network: FiOS Inter net 
Service and (wher e we have video 
franchise authority) FiOS TV , which 
is bringing competition, lower prices 
and unpr ecedented pr ogramming 
diversity to the video marketplace.
Today , we ar e deploying FiOS in 
more than 800 communities acr oss 16 
states. In every state wher e Verizon’ s 
ﬁber deployment is under way , Verizon 
is deploying ﬁber to one or mor e com -
munities that r eﬂect the br oad diversity 
of our customer base. For example:
• Lynn, Mass., wher e the median 
family income is 26 per cent below the 
state median;
• Passaic, N.J., wher e the median 
family income is 47 per cent below the 
state median;
• Fort W ayne, Ind., which is sig -
niﬁcantly mor e diverse and has lower 
income than the state as a whole; and
• Califor nia, wher e half the communi -
ties tar geted for ﬁber deployment have 
lower income or ar e mor e diverse than 
our service territory acr oss the state.
CONNECTION SOLUTIONS
We continue to explor e innovative, 
cost-ef fective ways to bring br oadband 
to even mor e customers. W e have 
an inter nal working gr oup looking for 
opportunities to connect underserved 
rural and urban communities. 
Urban initiatives. In our last r eport, 
we described our partnership with the 
One Economy Corporation to work 
together to put af fordable Inter net 
access into the homes of low-income 
Americans. As part of this initiative in 
2005, we partner ed with the Mount 
Hope Housing Company in the Br onx 
(one of New Y ork City’ s ﬁrst nonpr oﬁt 
community development or ganizations) 
to provide its r esidents with af ford-
able Inter net access, computers and 
computer training.
Under our agr eement with Mount 
Hope, all 5,700 r esidents will have 
the opportunity to pur chase low-cost 
Internet access and the opportunity to pur chase discounted computers 
from our pr oject partners. Fr ee train -
ing pr ograms will teach r esidents 
how to use their new computers and 
to navigate the Inter net. Extended 
softwar e and har dwar e training 
will be of fered to r esidents who, in 
turn, use their skills to help other 
Mount Hope r esidents with techni -
cal pr oblems as on-site technicians.
To provide this service, V erizon is 
using ﬁxed-wir eless network technolo -
gy, which pr ovides connection speeds 
of up to 1.5 megabits per second 
(Mbps) downstr eam and 384 kilobits 
per second (Kbps) upstr eam. 
In announcing this public-  
private partnership, Eric Cevis, CEO of 
Verizon A venue, said, “The success of 
the Mount Hope pr oject underscor es 
Verizon’ s goal to expand br oadband 
availability thr oughout all of the com -
munities we serve. W e look forwar d to 
working on similar pr ojects with One 
Economy , housing developers and 
community-development corporations 
across V erizon’ s territory .” 
Rural initiatives. In rural America, 
Verizon A venue has deployed ﬁxed-
wireless br oadband networks to 
deliver high-speed Inter net service 
in ﬁve communities with a combined 
population of about 42,000: Chatham, 
Highland and Rantoul, Ill.; Grundy , Va.; 
and Emmaus, Pa. Our ongoing trial 
of ﬁxed-wir eless technology in rural 
communities gives us the opportunity 
to work with our technology partners 
to ﬁnd the optimal solution for deliver -
ing br oadband service to r emote or 
sparsely populated communities and 
explor e sustainable economic models. 
MEETING CUSTO MERS’ NEEDS
While technology is important, our 
customer service is paramount. 
Our slogan, “W e never stop work -
ing for you,” expr esses the V erizon 
philosophy of total accountability for 
satisfying customers. And with mor e 
than 50 million wir eless customers, 
30 million households with a wir e-other still-to-be-invented br oadband 
services. Our investment in taking ﬁber 
all the way to customers’ homes and 
businesses thr ough our ﬁber -to-the-
premises (FTTP) network is the br oad-
est deployment of this technology in 
the United States. 
By the end of 2005, our FTTP 
network r eached 3 million custom -
ers, and we expect to double that 
to 6 million by the end of 2006. W e DELIVERING THE BRO ADBAND PROMISE
Accessible TV Service
Verizon is staking its claim as a high-tech company 
that is committed to meeting the needs of all of its 
customers. This means bringing to market pr oducts 
that ar e accessible to everyone. 
For example, while working with Boston public televi -
sion station W GBH’ s National Center for Accessible 
Media to make our FiOS TV service mor e accessible 
to people with disabilities, we ar e considering not only 
what we thought  our customers want … but what they 
told us they want. 
One thing that our customers who use captioning 
have long desir ed is the ability to change the size of 
captions—to gr ow them if they have pr oblems seeing 
small print or to shrink them if the captions seem too 
intrusive. V erizon is working to assur e that this, and 
other advanced captioning featur es of digital televi -
sion, ar e fully supported in our new FiOS TV service.
THROUGHOUT THE REPOR T, LOOK FOR ADDITIONA L 
EXAMPLES AND CUSTO MER TESTI MONIA LS 
THAT HIGH LIGHT HO W BROADBAND IS TOUCHING 
PEOP LE’S LIVES.
LIVIN G OUR VALUES
18Verizon Business,  formed by the combina tion of Verizon’ s 
Enterprise Solutions Group and MCI, is the new provider of 
Verizon’ s advanced communica tions and informa tion technolog y 
(IT) solutions to large businesses and governments.  It ofﬁcially 
opened for business in Januar y 200 6 in more than 75 countries 
around the world.  It unveiled a robust line of integra ted ser vices,  
including new integra ted wireless and wired network access 
offerings,  and a targeted advertising campaign to introduce and 
establish the Verizon Business brand in the business marketplace.  
Verizon Business dra ws on the complementar y strengths of 
Verizon and MCI: local connections and global presence; a leading 
wireless network; a leading Internet backbone; and a full range of 
local,  long-distance and Internet-protocol ser vices.  And it unites 
them under the Verizon brand and values system.  line connection and thousands of 
large and small businesses r elying 
on our service, that commitment is 
tested every minute of every day .
It all begins with the network. Both 
our wir eless and wir eline networks 
are designed to pr ovide the highest 
degree of r eliability and quality . For 
example, the wir eline network has 
to be able to connect mor e than 1.5 
billion telephone calls on the aver -
age business day with 99.99 per cent 
reliability . The quality of our service 
is testimony to the nearly 87,000 
employees in our Network Services 
Group who either work on the network as technicians or personally serve 
customers thr ough our call centers. 
In 2005, surveys showed that 89 
percent of r esidential customers rated 
Verizon’ s service as “satisfactory” or 
better . We constantly analyze customer 
satisfaction data to better understand 
our customers’ r equir ements. For in -
stance, our r esear ch shows customers 
want to be kept informed during the 
installation and r epair pr ocess. As a 
result, we have instituted an automated 
call-ahead pr ogram to r emind custom -
ers about appointments. In addition, 
we have implemented a follow-up call 
program on all pr ovisioning and r epair 
jobs to ensur e our work meets custom -
ers’ r equir ements. 
We also operate America’ s most re-
liable wir eless network. T o test the r eli-
ability of its network, V erizon Wir eless 
deploys mor e than 50 “test men and 
women” who inspir ed our national 
“Can you hear me now?” advertising 
campaign. Every month they travel an 
average of 100,000 miles on the r oads, 
boulevar ds and highways acr oss 
America in specially equipped vehicles 
that test the V erizon Wir eless network, 
as well as competitors’ networks. 
Verizon Wireless’ focus on reliability 
is expr essed in our worry-fr ee guaran -
tee, our pledge to customers that with 
our service they will:
• Enjoy the best, most r eliable wir e-
less network; • Have the option to change to any 
qualifying calling plan or airtime pr o-
motion at any time; 
• Be guaranteed satisfaction on any 
product pur chased; and 
• Have the option to upgrade their 
wireless phone for fr ee every two 
years.
Verizon and V erizon Wir eless have 
been widely r ecognized for service 
excellence by a number of r espected 
institutions. In 2005 we wer e named:CUSTOMER 
SATISFACTION 
INDEX
WIRELINE SERVICE
 2003  2004  2005100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
VERIZON BUSINESS: High Tech With A Human Touch
Verizon Business is led by President John Killian and an 
experienced senior leadership team tha t draws from both Verizon 
and MCI. Killian and his executive team ha ve embarked on a 
tour of Verizon Business facilities around the world to meet and 
welcome the MCI emplo yees joining Verizon.  “I’d like to stress 
how pleased we are to ha ve our legac y MCI emplo yees joining 
our business, ” Killian told MCI emplo yees.  “We have grea t 
respect for wha t you ha ve accomplished in the marketplace.”
Over the course of 200 6, Killian and his team will integra te 
Verizon Business into the Verizon culture and communica te with 
emplo yees about the Verizon Commitment and Values and the 
Verizon Code of Business Conduct.  DELIVERING THE BRO ADBAND PROMISE
Meg Brandt
“Befor e my daughter , Natalie, was diagnosed with con -
genital heart disease, I’d never hear d of a child having 
such a disease. Then I discover ed the Inter net home page 
for http://www .littlehearts.net.
The site of fers services and r esour ces like Par ent Match -
ing, wher e you can ﬁnd families who have the same 
diagnosis so you can talk to them online. Meeting all 
these other families and ﬁnding out it was the most com -
mon birth defect in childr en was so comforting. They have 
600 families now . The one good thing about r eading this 
online is that ther e are success stories. If we didn’ t have 
Internet access, a lot of things would be dif ferent.”
VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
19• No. 1 in the J.D. Power 
and Associates list for br oad-
band business services; 
• No. 2 in the J.D. Power and  
Associates list for br oadband r esi-
dential services, 10 points above the 
industry average; 
• No. 1 in the J.D. Power and Associ -
ates ranking of call quality among wir e-
less users in ﬁve out of six r egions—
more than any other pr ovider;
• No. 1 in wir eless customer  
satisfaction and No. 2 for wir eline 
service in the American Customer Sat -
isfaction Index issued by the University 
of Michigan; and,
• No. 1 in the Y ankee Gr oup br oad-
band survey for medium-size and small 
business DSL satisfaction.
SERVING DIVERSE COMMUNITIES
Our customer base r eﬂects the 
demographic and cultural richness of 
America. W e are constantly challenged 
to ﬁnd innovative ways to addr ess the 
diverse needs of our customers, and to 
use the extraor dinary potential of our 
technology to extend the beneﬁts of 
communications to all our customers.
Customers with disabilities. Our 
goal is to ensur e that our pr oducts and 
services are fully accessible to custom -
ers with disabilities. W e continually 
collaborate with disability-community 
leaders on policy issues and, when 
needed, pr ovide special assistance to 
customers with disabilities.
We are committed to the goal of at -
taining universal accessibility , including 
access to our W eb sites, handsets and 
video of ferings. 
Verizon uses universal design 
principles thr oughout the planning and 
development of new pr oducts and ser -
vices to ensur e accessibility . We also 
work with our partners and suppliers to 
adopt these principles. Our universal 
design principles ar e: 
• To provide quality services that 
can r easonably accommodate a br oad 
range of diverse users, including 
youths, individuals with disabilities  
and seniors;• To review existing services to 
determine which can be made mor e 
accessible; and
• To market and pr ovision services 
in a manner consistent with universal 
design principles.
Verizon operates a cr oss- 
functional team with members fr om 
the V erizon Centers for Customers 
with Disabilities, V erizon Labs, our 
Retail Markets Gr oup and others. 
The team assists our lines of busi -
ness during pr oduct planning so that 
disability considerations ar e included 
in the design and development of 
every pr oduct. In addition, the team 
works with our Strategic Alliances 
Group to coor dinate outr each ef -
forts to the disability community .
For example, V erizon Wir eless is 
addressing the concer ns of custom -
ers with disabilities by adding to its 
product inventory phones that can be 
used with digital hearing aids. Its cus -
tomer service centers now handle TTY 
(teletypewriter) calls fr om customers, 
instead of depending on a telephone-
relay operator to assist customers in 
communicating with us. 
We also work side-by-side with 
the disability community to ensur e that 
America’ s laws and r egulations sup -
port accessibility . Verizon’ s resour ce 
group for employees with disabilities, 
Disabilities Issues A wareness Leaders 
(D.I.A.L.), has been active in this ar ena. 
Verizon actively supports events 
and pr ojects conducted by some of 
the nation’ s leading disability-rights 
organizations. In 2005 for example, we 
were the lead corporate sponsor for 
the American Association for People 
with Disabilities Mentoring Day, and we 
worked with the American Foundation 
for the Blind to pr omote Braille literacy .
Speaking to customers in 
their native language. Today , mor e 
than 1,000 multilingual employees 
staff 13 V erizon customer multi -
cultural sales and solution centers 
in various parts of the country . 
Expanding on the success of this 
multicultural appr oach to customers, 
we recently cr eated a special center DELIVERING THE BRO ADBAND PROMISE
Maneesha Kaira
“I use br oadband to be in touch with my folks in India. 
My par ents and my husband’ s par ents ar e online every 
day. We have e-mails going back and forth, blogs and 
photographs. With live video str eaming, they don’ t 
miss out on our birthdays. Br oadband is a huge beneﬁt 
and with higher speeds we ar e able to chat mor e often. 
With new technology , mor e and mor e options ar e avail -
able, the quality is better , and it’ s obviously cheaper . 
Online is just so simple.”
CUSTOMER  
SATISFACTION INDEX 
 None  One Two Three All Four100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Number of T ouch Points with Customer
We requir e four “touch points” or customer calls: one 
befor e the job, one at the start of the job, one when 
the work is completed and ﬁnally a follow-up call. The 
data clearly demonstrate the importance of r emaining 
in communication with customers.
LIVIN G OUR VALUES
20for Hispanic-owned businesses, en -
abling customers who pr efer to com -
municate with us in Spanish to r eceive 
product and service support. W e also 
recently expanded our W est Coast 
Language Assistance Center in Santa 
Monica, Calif., to serve V ietnamese, 
Korean and Chinese business custom -
ers in their native languages. The 
center curr ently serves 123,000 Asian 
residential customers. 
In addition to our existing bilingual 
online pr esence for many of our pr od-
ucts and services, V erizon Wir eless 
now pr ovides Spanish-speaking 
customers a wide array of r esour ces to 
meet their needs and inter ests. The r e-
sources include Spanish-language di -
rectory assistance (411) and Spanish-
language voice mail thr oughout many 
parts of the country . Spanish-speaking customer service r epresentatives can 
be reached by dialing 1 -800-256-4646. 
Verizon Wir eless of fers a Spanish-
language Web site: http://www .verizon -
wireless.com/espanol and bilingual 
staff in many of its mor e than 1,200 
Verizon Wir eless Communications 
stores. Ther e is also a Spanish-  
language version of V erizon Wir eless’ 
online account-management tool. 
Through Mi Cuenta, Spanish-speak -
ing customers can view and pay their 
bills online, r eview payment activity 
and check their account balance and 
minutes used.
PROTECTING AND PROMOTING 
CYBER-CITIZENSHIP
Whether it’ s the nuisance of “spam” 
e-mails, the destructiveness of spy -
ware worms and viruses, or the fear DELIVERING THE BRO ADBAND PROMISE
Rev. Keith Goodman
“I pastor a chur ch in the Southeaster n Pennsylva -
nia ar ea. When I was r ecently in St. Louis, Missouri, 
someone ther e commented to me that they listened to 
my sermons online. That’ s because the sermons that 
I preach ar e captur ed on audio and transferr ed into 
a digital format so that friends and other inter ested 
persons ar ound the country ar e able to download or 
stream my messages fr om the W orld Wide W eb.”
20
Antawn Barb is 
one of hundr eds of 
technicians fulﬁlling 
Verizon’ s commitment 
to deploy ﬁber to 
the pr emises and 
bring the power 
of br oadband to 
customers. VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
21of scams or pr edatory online behavior , 
Americans ar e incr easingly concer ned 
about issues involving “cybersecurity .” 
Customers look to us to help them 
enjoy a safe experience on the Inter net 
while, at the same time, having the full 
beneﬁt of all the new experiences that 
broadband technology can deliver . 
Verizon is concer ned about security 
issues too, and is working to pr omote 
good cyber -citizenship. 
“Spam” accounts for 80 per cent 
of the e-mail that comes thr ough our 
servers. Our Inter net-access ser -
vice, V erizon Online, blocks delivery 
of mor e than 7 million spam mes -
sages per month. W e also detect 
and block up to 1 million e-mails 
per month that ar e infected with 
some form of computer virus.
To help pr ovide a safe Inter net 
envir onment for our customers, V erizon 
has established a Security Alert page 
on our W eb site, http://www .verizonon -
line.net. It pr ovides information about 
virus-pr otection softwar e, passwor d 
protection, spam ﬁlters and how to 
back up important data. The site also 
helps customers ﬁnd information on 
the latest Inter net and phone scams 
involving calling-car d or cr edit-car d 
numbers, thir d-number billing, identity 
theft and modem highjacking. W e also 
provide information on phone and 
online identity theft scams. 
Verizon was one of the founders of 
GetNetWise.or g, a campaign and W eb 
site designed to give Inter net users an 
easy, online r esour ce for additional in -
formation on Internet security . The Web 
site pr ovides tools in four ar eas: 
• Keeping childr en safe online;
• Stopping spam;
• Protecting computers fr om hackers 
and viruses; and
• Keeping personal information 
private. Today childr en receive voice, data, 
video, games, cartoons, chat, and 
music on a wide range of networked 
devices. V erizon is working with the 
Internet Content Rating Association 
(ICRA) to deliver an education campaign 
to raise the level of awar eness about 
content thr eats in our conver ged world. 
Verizon and ICRA ar e working coopera -
tively to answer par ents’ questions and 
point them to the tools they can employ 
to help pr otect their childr en from  
harmful content. 
Finally , Verizon and i-SAFE 
America, Inc., ar e collaborating on  
a multi-year initiative to cr eate a 
powerful set of cyber -citizenship  
tools that educate K-12 students 
about r esponsible access to entertain -
ment, information and online commu -
nication tools. Online theft and illegal 
distribution of intellectual pr operty 
(music, movies, TV shows and games) 
as well as inappr opriate uses of 
instant-messaging have become mor e 
prevalent. It is important that our 
young people have r espect for other 
people’ s innovations and pr operty , and 
understand the safety issues r elated to 
online chatting and socializing.DELIVERING THE BRO ADBAND PROMISE
Wireless Access to Medical Records
In 2005, V erizon Wir eless and PatientKeeper , Inc., 
the leading pr ovider of mobile computing solutions 
for health-car e professionals, made the industry-
leading PatientKeeper PlatformTM accessible thr ough 
the V erizon Wir eless network.
The platform connects mobile devices with hospital 
information systems, of fering physicians secur e 
access to patient information when they ar e away 
from the hospital. 
PatientKeeper PlatformTM is property of PatientKeeper , Inc.
  EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES
MARC REED, Executive Vice President—Human Resour ces
“ OUR EMPLOYEES WILL HELP 
DIFFERENTIATE US IN THE 
MARKETPLACE BY DELIVERING 
THE BEST COMMUNICATIONS 
SERVICES AND CUSTOMER 
EXPERIENCES.”High Hopes for 
New Y ork City 
When urban 
neighborhoods get 
the services they 
need, V erizon helps 
bridge opportunity 
gaps and brings the 
city closer .
2222
LIVIN G OUR VALUES22 PERFORMAN CE EXCELLEN CE IS WHAT distinguishes leaders 
from the r est of the pack. Just as V erizon’ s networks set the 
standar d in the marketplace for br oadband and wir eless 
technologies, our employees must set the standar d for 
innovation and customer service. As we evolve into a 
global service pr ovider , we continue to attract and r etain 
employees with the experience, cultural backgr ounds, skills 
and abilities that will enable us to meet the diverse needs of 
our customers and communities. 
We are committed to a corporate cultur e that r espects 
people and pr ovides challenging and r ewar ding work that 
gives employees the opportunity to gr ow and develop, while 
contributing to the innovative world of communications and 
the gr owth of the communities wher e they live and work.
23VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
23LIVIN G OUR VALUES
24TOTAL REWARDS 
Verizon’ s human r esour ces policies 
and practices foster a cultur e that 
rewar ds performance excellence, 
maintains our competitiveness and 
provides exciting car eer opportunities. 
Our total r ewar ds package, including 
salary and beneﬁts, is among the best 
in corporate America. W e provide a 
full range of work/life pr ograms to help 
employees manage their work and 
personal lives, and we have a variety 
of programs to ensur e we tap the 
talent of our diverse employee base. 
Because of the value we place 
on innovation, we invest millions 
of dollars in job training and car eer 
enhancement pr ograms that keep 
our employees ahead of the curve 
in their r espective lines of work. W e 
have a number of ways of r ecognizing 
extraor dinary ef forts by individuals and 
teams for their work serving custom -
ers and the community . Verizon’ s 
service-oriented cultur e is building 
an envir onment that encourages our 
employees to focus on customers 
and give back to their communities. 
Verizon has designed our compen -
sation pr ogram to pr ovide incentives 
for high performance and r ewar d our 
employees for contributing to the busi -
ness and r eaching their personal goals.
Compensation consists of base 
pay and short-term incentives:
• Base pay. Base pay levels ar e set 
to compete with the exter nal market so 
we can attract and r etain employees. 
• Short-term incentives. Verizon 
offers incentive pay for all employees, 
including associates. For managers, 
incentives ar e tied to individual and 
company performance, which gives 
employees a stake in our r esults and 
rewar ds superior performance. For 
associates, incentives ar e tied to team 
and company performance.
We also of fer competitive em -
ployee beneﬁt plans, ranging fr om 
compr ehensive health car e to a wide 
range of work/life pr ograms. 
PENSIONS AND RETIREE HEA LTH-
CARE BENEFITS
In addition to pr oviding compr ehen -
sive beneﬁts for active employees, 
Verizon also has historically pr ovided pension and health-car e beneﬁts to 
our appr oximately 200,000 r etirees.
Over the past decade, the employment 
marketplace has changed dramati -
cally: it is mor e competitive, with newer 
companies of fering their employees 
different remuneration packages fr om 
traditional pay and beneﬁts packages. 
In early December 2005, V erizon 
announced changes to the r etire-
ment beneﬁts of fered to management 
employees. This began the pr ocess 
of aligning the value of our beneﬁt 
programs for management employees 
across the company . In making these 
changes, we compar ed the value of 
our plans and the planned changes to 
those plans of fered by other compa -
nies, particularly our competitors in the 
broadband and wir eless markets.
Effective July 1, 2006, 50,000 
management employees will no longer 
earn pension cr edits or service towar d 
the company’ s subsidy of r etiree 
medical beneﬁts. It is important to note 
that employees will keep any pension 
beneﬁts they have alr eady ear ned. 
In place of the traditional pen -
sion plan, V erizon is enhancing the 
existing 401(k) plan, which will pr ovide 
employees with a r etirement plan mor e 
in line with curr ent tr ends. T oday if 
employees contribute 6 per cent of their 
pay, the company contributes another 
5 per cent. Under changes that will take 
effect on July 1, 2006, the company 
will match employee contributions to 
a maximum of 9 per cent. The ﬁrst 6 
percent match in the 401(k) plan is 
a direct dollar -for-dollar match, and 
the additional 3 per cent match will be 
linked to company performance.
The enhanced 401(k) pr ovides 
an incentive for our employees 
to shar e in the futur e success of 
Verizon. In addition, our employ -
ees have gr eater accountability in 
managing their own ﬁnances and 
portability of their r etirement savings 
through personal savings accounts.
These changes af fect appr oximate -
ly 37 per cent of active management 
employees. (Employees in V erizon 
Wireless and V erizon Business 
do not curr ently participate 
in the pension and r etiree 
health-car e plans.) These changes do not af fect union-r epre-
sented employees or r etirees.
These changes wer e not easy to 
make. But they r eﬂect the r ealities of 
our changing world, give us a mor e 
affordable beneﬁt cost structur e, allow 
employees to manage r etirement plan -
ning, and, going forwar d, will enhance 
our competitive position. 
FOCUS ON HEALTH CARE
Verizon r ecognizes that good health-
care coverage contributes to healthier 
people and mor e productive employ -
ees. W e offer a variety of high-quality 
health-car e options, which cover mor e 
than 800,000 people—employees, 
retirees and family members. 
Health-car e costs continue to 
increase at a national rate of over  
10 per cent a year . Verizon has seen 
more than a 30 per cent cumulative 
increase in health-car e costs over 
the last four years. In 2005 alone, we 
spent $3.2 billion for medical and 
prescription drug costs. 
Verizon is also involved in a wide 
range of national ef forts to impr ove 
health-car e quality , safety and car e. 
Following ar e a few examples:
• Chairman and CEO Ivan  
Seidenber g was the 
only executive 
from a lar ge 
corporation 
to partici -Denise Hill, 
Arlington, V a.,  
helps V erizon to be 
a great company 
by resolving billing 
issues that keep 
customers fr om 
being connected. VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
25pate on the Commission on Systemic 
Interoperability , which is focused on 
developing a national system of 
electr onic medical r ecords to r educe 
medical err ors and incr ease quality of 
care. The commission’ s recommenda -
tions wer e published in October 2005 
(http://www .endingthedocumentgame.
gov).
• Chief Information Ofﬁcer Shaygan 
Kheradpir has been appointed to one 
of four subgr oups of The American 
Health Information Community , the 
successor to the Commission on Sys -
temic Inter operability . The work gr oup 
is char ged with r ecommending secur e 
technology solutions for r emote moni -
toring and assessment of patients and 
for communication between clinicians 
about patients.
• Verizon is a founding member of 
Bridges to Excellence, a coalition of 
large employers and health plans that 
recognize and r ewar d physicians who 
provide high-quality health car e or 
adopt systems that pr omote quality . 
Bridges to Excellence of fers doctors 
an annual bonus payment for ef fec-
tive tr eatment of diabetes and heart 
disease and for adopting information 
technology systems to help manage 
and impr ove patient car e.
• Verizon is also a founding  
member of the Leapfr og Gr oup, a 
coalition of mor e than 150 public and 
private or ganizations that pr ovide 
health-car e beneﬁts.
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Safety has always been a critical com -
ponent of V erizon’ s values system. Our 
Safety Management T eam r ecognizes 
that this commitment goes well beyond 
compliance to include a much mor e 
fundamental r esponsibility: to pr epare 
all employees to accept r esponsibility 
for working safely at all times.
Our safety managers r egularly 
interact with our operations teams to 
address safety challenges. At the ﬁeld 
level, safety managers pr ovide hands-
on training, coaching and technical 
expertise. At the executive level, safety 
 OSHA CITATIONS (TELECOM AND WIRELESS)
YEARCitations  
ReceivedCitations  
UpheldCitations  
ReducedCitations  
RescindedCitations  
Pending
2003 22 5 11 2 4
2004 19 6 7 4 2
2005 12 1 4 4 3
Citations  Upheld:  The citation as originally issued by OSHA was finalized/closed  
and not changed with r egards to the category or amount of the fine.
Citations  Reduced:  The citation issued by OSHA was finalized/closed with a  
reduction in category or amount of the fine.
Citations  Rescinded:  The citation issued by OSHA was r efuted successfully .
Citations  Pending:  Waiting for a r esponse fr om OSHA to V erizon’ s response  
to the citation.The chart below depicts safety r esults for V erizon’ s Telecom and Wir eless 
employees over the past thr ee years. It demonstrates year -over -year 
improvement in our safety r esults.
2003
2004
20054.5
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
.5
0
Occupational 
Injuries/
Illness
Lost W ork 
Day Rate
Motor V ehicle 
Incident Rate
(The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) T otal Recor dable 
Rate r eflects the number of injuries/illnesses experienced per 100 employees. The 
Total Lost W ork Day (L WD) rate r eflects the number of injury/illness cases per 100 
employees that r esult in time of f the job.)
We have also been successful in r educing the number of OSHA citations r eceived 
and those upheld. SAFETY STATISTICSmanagers pr ovide guidance on curr ent 
regulations, evaluate pending legisla -
tion, work to evaluate r esults and 
implement corr ective action. 
More broadly , we ar e committed to 
ensuring that all employees—fr om the 
front line to senior management—ac -
cept r esponsibility for their safety and 
that of their coworkers. The vision 
statement of our safety or ganization expresses this philosophy of personal 
accountability:
Creed
The demands of the ser vice or 
urgency of the job ar e never so 
great that we cannot take the 
time to perfor m our work safely .
PREPARING FOR THE FUTURELIVIN G OUR VALUES
26To ensur e our competitiveness in a 
technology-intensive industry , we work 
continually to equip our employees 
with the knowledge and skills they 
need to make use of sophisticated 
communications and IT technologies. 
We have a signiﬁcant portfolio of train -
ing, education and development pr o-
grams to addr ess these r equir ements, 
including mor e than 3,000 job-speciﬁc, 
in-class or online training courses. W e 
also of fer a wide range of pr ograms 
that allow employees to take advan -
tage of courses deliver ed exter nally by 
accredited colleges and universities.
In 2005, V erizon deliver ed mor e 
than 5 million hours of in-house train -
ing, an incr ease fr om 3.8 million in 
2004. The majority of training was in 
26EMPLOYEE PROFILE AS OF 12/31/05 (ETHNIC DIVERSITY) 
While our diversity numbers compar e favorably to the overall labor for ce in the United States, we continue to look at all of our 
markets to ensur e that our diversity pr ofile allows us to meet our customer -first commitment and compete ef fectively . 
 
Management Non-Management* TotalProfile as of 
12/31/04Profile of 
Total U.S. 
Labor  force
American  Indian  / 
Alaskan  Native284 0.5% 688 0.5% 972 0.5% 0.5% 1.1%
Asian 6,113 10.3% 4,174 2.8% 10,287 4.9% 4.9% 4.0% 
Black 8,196 13.8% 34,172 22.8% 42,368 20.2% 20.0% 10.6%
Hispanic 3,921 6.6% 13,110 8.7% 17,031 8.1% 7.7% 10.7%
White 40,799 68.8% 98,053 65.3% 138,852 66.3% 67.0% 73.6%
Total 59,313  150,197  209,510  
 
EMPLOYEE PROFILE AS OF 12/31/05 (BY GENDER)
 
Management Non-Management* TotalProfile as of 
12/31/04Profile of 
Total U.S. 
Labor  force
Female 24,352 41.1% 66,307 44.1% 90,659 43.3% 42.2% 46%
Male  34,961 58.9% 83,890 55.9% 118,851 56.7% 57.8% 54%
Total 59,313  150,197  209,510  
 
*  Associate figur es include both union and nonunion r epresented employees.  
(Does not include former MCI employees)
support of our ﬁber network deploy -
ment. Both wir eline and wir eless train -
ing pr ograms wer e recognized in 2005 
as one of Training  magazine’ s “100 
Best Companies” that excel at human-
capital development. 
COMPETING THROUGH DIVERSITY
Verizon operates in an incr eas-
ingly diverse marketplace. As a 
result, diversity is an integral part 
of our business strategy in all lines 
of business and functions—fr om 
workfor ce development and supplier 
relationships, to economic develop -
ment, marketing and philanthr opy.
We have made signiﬁcant pr ogress 
over the years in building a workfor ce 
that r elates to our customers, speaks their languages and r eﬂects their tastes 
and pr eferences. T oday minorities 
represent:
• 33% of our overall employee base;
• 31% of our management team; and
• 15% of our executive team.
Verizon has several initiatives to 
support our diversity strategy:
Diversity Performance Incentive. 
Tracks workfor ce composition, as well 
as hir es and pr omotions, in each busi -
ness unit and holds leaders account -
able thr ough a tie-in to incentive pay .
Strategic Development of 
High Potential Talent. Verizon 
identiﬁes and develops a 
diverse pool of high-potential 
leadership candidates thr ough “It’s my legs, not my brains.” That’ s Cheryl Mongell’ s view of the  
multiple scler osis (MS) that for ces her to r ely on crutches and will someday 
conﬁne her to a wheelchair . 
“I have chosen not to have MS deﬁne me,” said Mongell, vice pr esi-
dent—r egion operations, New England. With the challenges posed 
by a disabling disease, she said, “Attitude is everything.” 
That goes a long way in explaining why Mongell was among 10 people with 
disabilities nationwide who wer e selected as Employee of the Y ear by  
CAREERS & the disABLED  Magazine. 
In choosing Mongell as a r ole model, the magazine cited her personal and pr o-
fessional achievements, as well as the positive impact she has had on others. 
Mongell, who has over 25 years of service, now oversees nearly 5,000 
employees and manages operations and service delivery to mor e than 
6 million of our r esidential and business customers in New England. 
“When the opportunity for my curr ent job became available, I asked my boss 
if the company was okay with having someone in a senior management 
position who someday would be permanently bound to a wheelchair . That 
I’m her e tells you the answer , and it says a lot about V erizon,” Mongell said. 
Her inter est today is in working with the Easter Seals to pr omote the  
use of technology by people with disabilities to pr ovide them with  
more independence. 
“That meshes perfectly with V erizon’ s broadband vision,”  
Mongell said. “People with disabilities need technology to help them. 
So for me, ther e’s a str ong business connection, as well as a per -
sonal inter est. I want to see how we can bring the two together .”
COMPASS POINTS
Respect
Cheryl 
Mongell, V ice 
President— Region 
Operations, 
New England, 
talks with Splice 
Service Technician 
Tim Zaniboni 
at a garage in 
Somerville, Mass., 
during one of her 
frequent visits 
with employees 
throughout New 
England.career management, leadership 
development and talent r etention. 
Professional Organizations/Colleges 
and Universities. We strategically 
partner with pr ofessional or ganiza -
tions, colleges/universities and others 
to expand our outr each and to ensur e 
we ar e attracting a diverse workfor ce. 
To attract diverse applicants to the 
company , Verizon has developed 
relationships with Historically Black 
Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) 
and Hispanic Serving Institutions 
(HSIs), and works with diverse college 
and pr ofessional gr oups such as the 
National Society of Black Engineers 
(NSBE), the Society of Hispanic 
Professional Engineers (SHPE), and 
others. The company also uses inter n-
ship opportunities to tar get potential 
employees with diverse backgr ounds.
Diversity Councils. Lines of business 
have diversity councils to help build an 
inclusive cultur e to meet unique busi -
ness objectives. 
Mentoring. Mentoring is an impor -
tant part of the employee develop -
ment strategy . Formal and informal 
voluntary mentoring pr ograms allow 
experienced managers to work with 
employees looking for their next 
developmental opportunity . 
Employee Resource Groups. Verizon 
has 10 employee r esour ce gr oups 
which ar e employee initiated and 
company supported. With nearly 
12,000 members, these gr oups pr ovide 
a forum for networking, mentoring, 
professional development and training, 
as well as opportunities for community 
service and involvement. Each gr oup is 
supported by a senior executive.
EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES  
WITH DISABILITIES 
The term “disability” covers a wide 
range of physical challenges, fr om 
hearing and visual impairments to 
quadriplegia and temporary condi -
tions caused by accidents or ill -
ness. V erizon is committed to 
making full use of the talents of 
our employees with disabilities. 
In CAREERS & the disABLED 
magazine’ s 2005 annual survey , read-
ers called V erizon “one of the top 
private-sector employers for whom 
they would most like to work or believe 
27VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
27is progressive in hiring people with 
disabilities.” 
The magazine cited several 
examples of V erizon’ s commitment to 
employees with disabilities, including: 
• Working with the U.S. Depart -
ment of Labor to determine how 
to incr ease the number of people 
with disabilities in the workfor ce.
• Establishing a W orkfor ce Interven -
tion team, which helps employees 
with disabilities get the r esour ces and 
accommodations they need to do 
their jobs. Examples include: help -
ing an employee with vision impair -
ment to get special softwar e that 
can magnify text on a computer , or 
installing a ramp or automatic door 
for someone who uses a wheelchair .
• Sponsoring the employee r esour ce 
group, D.I.A.L. This gr oup pr omotes personal and pr ofessional gr owth for 
employees with common abilities and 
interests, while also educating others 
about issues and concer ns of people 
with disabilities.
EMPLOYEE OPINION SURVEY S
Our annual employee opinion surveys 
show that employees feel positive 
about V erizon and understand how 
their work supports V erizon’ s business 
direction and strategies. 
Employee participation in the 
2005 survey was at an all-time high. 
Nearly 79,000 wir eline employees 
(61 per cent) r esponded to the VZ 
Viewpoints survey . Over 28,000 wir e-
less employees (57 per cent) r esponded 
to the wir eless employee opinion 
survey . Both survey r esponse rates 
were higher than ever , with a com -
bined r esponse rate of 59 per cent.*Both the wir eline and wir e-
less surveys focused on busi -
ness strategies, our customer -ﬁrst 
commitment and our values. 
Key r esults included: 
Competitive Advantage. 84 per cent of 
employees said our pr oducts and ser -
vices pr ovide a competitive advantage 
in a demanding marketplace. 
Business Direction. 80 per cent said 
they clearly understand how their work 
supports V erizon’ s business dir ection 
and strategy .
Commitment and Values. 77 per cent 
said our values contribute dir ectly to 
the success of the business. 
Diversity. 82 per cent said V erizon is 
a company that fosters diversity and 
inclusion in the workplace. 
The survey r esults also showed 
opportunities for impr ovement. The 
business units use their individual 
survey r esults to identify and addr ess 
opportunities for impr ovement in the 
workplace envir onment. For example: 
• Verizon Partner Solutions, formerly 
Wholesale Markets, implemented the 
“Tell Your Story” W eb site initiative to 
promote employee engagement, inclu -
sion and r ecognition. Employees use 
the forum as an opportunity to shar e 
their enthusiasm and sense of ac -
complishment. Consequently , the work 
envir onment survey ratings impr oved 
by 5 per cent in 2005. 
• Responding to 2004 survey r esults, 
Information T echnology (IT) deployed 
the workshop “Managing Inclusion and 
Leveraging Multicultural Dif ferences” 
to promote employee cultur e, diversity , 
inclusion, collaboration and teamwork, 
and an impr oved work envir onment. 
2005 survey r esults impr oved by 4 per -
cent compar ed with the pr evious year .
• The Retail Markets Gr oup imple -
mented the “ride along” pr ogram to 
improve inclusion, collaboration and 
teamwork. The survey r esults for 2005 
improved by 5 per cent compar ed with 
the pr evious year .
Verizon is all about employees like Martha Mejia-Pr osper . 
The smile in Repr esentative Martha Mejia- Prosper ’s voice is part of the r ea-
son customers call to say how much they appr eciate the service she gives.
Customers say Martha Mejia- Prosper’ s doing a gr eat job. In fact, in 2004 
they said so 701 times. That’ s how many times customers called to say 
what wonderful service they received from Mejia-Pr osper , a representative in 
our Multilingual Sales and Solutions Center (MSSC) in the Br onx, N.Y . 
Mejia- Prosper , who serves Spanish-speaking customers in New England, 
said when she talks with customers, she has one goal in mind. “I want to 
treat them so good they never want to leave,” Mejia- Prosper  said. “Some -
thing I enjoy is when I have a very upset customer and I am 
able to r esolve the issue,” Mejia- Prosper  said. “Maybe 
they’ve called many times, inquiring about the same 
situation, which is the r eason for their frustration. At 
that point, I understand that they need someone  
who is willing to listen and help them, and I love to 
be that person. After I have given them a r esolu -
tion, they usually apologize if they yelled at me.  
It’s all in how they’r e treated.” 
COMPASS POINTS
Performance Ex cellence
*  Verizon and V erizon Wir eless ar e separate employ -
ers. Opinion survey r esults ar e being combined 
here for comparison purposes only .LIVIN G OUR VALUES
28VERIZON HEROES AWARD 
James Mays, a facilities technician in Bellma wr, 
N.J., helped to rescue three people who were 
overcome by carbon monoxide.  
He was working in a neighborhood when he 
noticed a woman in a nearby doorway had not 
moved for quite a while.  He went over to her and 
found she was disoriented.  As a result of coming 
to her aid,  he found two more women inside the 
house in need of assistance.  He helped get the 
women outside and called 911.  Two of the women 
were taken to a hospital and trea ted for carbon 
monoxide poisoning.  All sur vived.
RECOGNIZING EXCELLENCE
Verizon fosters a culture of recognition because we 
know tha t people who feel a pprecia ted and valued 
will continue to strive to give customers excellent 
performance.  The Verizon Excellence Awards 
(VEA), our highest emplo yee recognition program,  
recognizes emplo yees who provide excellent ser vice 
and grea t communica tions experiences,  drive 
improvements in our business performance,  and 
transform Verizon into the leader in communica tions 
technolog y, products and ser vices.  
Of the a pproxima tely 27,000 emplo yees nomina ted  
by their peers for VEA recognition during the 
2004/2005 c ycle, about 3,900 emplo yees were 
selected as winners.  This is less than 3 percent of 
the overall emplo yee popula tion, making recipients a 
unique group of leading performers.  DIVERSITY RECOGNITION FOR VERIZON
We have been recognized by a number of organiza tions for our diversity 
achievements.  Some of the highlights:
• BLACK ENTERPRISE  magazine named Verizon one of the 30 Best Companies 
for Diversity . The publica tion noted Verizon’ s commitment to diversity among senior 
mana gement,  board of directors and suppliers.  
• CAREERS & the disABLED  magazine named Verizon the Private-Sector  
Emplo yer of the Year for our commitment to recruiting,  hiring and advancing  
people with disabilities.
• ComputerW orld magazine,  citing our diversity initia tives as one factor , named 
Verizon Wireless one of the best places to work for IT Professionals.
• Emplo yee Assistance Society of North America presented Verizon with a 
Corpora te Award of Excellence for our innova tive emplo yee assistance program,  
VZ-LIFE (Life Initiatives for Emplo yees).  Verizon received the a ward for offering 
comprehensive work/life solutions to our diverse workforce.
• ESSENCE  magazine placed Verizon second for African- American women on its 
list of 35 Great Places to Work.
• Diversity Business.com honored Verizon with its “America’ s Top Organiza tions for 
Multicultural Opportunities”  award in March 2005,  and named Verizon Wireless to its 
list of Top 50 buyers of diversity products and ser vices.
• DiversityInc  magazine a gain named Verizon as one of the best companies for 
diversity ( No. 9 on the 2005 List of 50 Best Companies).  Verizon was also named to 
the ma gazine’ s 2005 list of top companies for supplier diversity .
• Hispanic  magazine named Verizon to its Corpora te 100 list for providing 
opportunities for Hispanics; as ha ving one of the Top 25 Diversity Recruitment 
Programs; and as ha ving one of the Top 25 Supplier Diversity Programs.  
• Hispanic Associa tion on Corpora te Responsibility ( HACR) ranked Verizon second 
on the HACR Corpora te Index.  The index grades the Fortune 100 companies on their 
commitment to the Hispanic community . 
• Hispanic Business  magazine named Verizon as one of the top ﬁve companies in 
its list of the 25 Best Companies for Hispanics to work for .
• Latin Business  magazine named Verizon to its Corpora te Diversity Honor Roll. 
• LATINA Style  magazine named Verizon to its special Top 13 list of the 50 Top 
Companies for Hispanic Women.
• Scientiﬁc American  magazine named Verizon to its ﬁrst list of the 55 top 
companies making a difference in the way people with disabilities live and work.
• United States Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce ( USPAACC) named 
Verizon “Corpora tion of the Year” in May 2005.
• Working Mother  magazine,  for the ﬁfth year in a ro w, named Verizon Wireless 
one of the 100 Best places to work for working mothers.VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
29 PROMOTING COMMUNITY GROWTH
ROBER T E. INGALLS , JR., Executive Vice President and Chief Mark eting Officer
“ OUR EFFORTS WILL EMPOWER 
CONSUMERS, TRANSFORM 
COMMUNITIES, AND ENCOURAGE 
INNOVATION AND ECONOMIC 
GROWTH ACROSS AMERICA  
FOR YEARS TO COME.”New Connections
Rosemary and Jef frey 
Rodriguez use V erizon’ s 
broadband service for 
school, for fun and to 
expand their world beyond 
their Br onx, N.Y ., home.
LIVIN G OUR VALUES30 TECHNOLOGY IS THE LIFEBLOOD of the 21st century economy . 
Today’ s customers demand networks, applications and 
products that put speed, mobility and contr ol in their 
hands. More broadly , local economies increasingly compete 
for jobs and capital in a global market, which makes access 
to advanced communications networks all the mor e crucial. 
Verizon’ s investment in the networks of the futur e is 
making our company mor e competitive and our customers 
more productive. It is also making the communities we 
serve mor e competitive by empowering citizens with  
the tools to compete, innovate, gr ow and meet the 
challenges of tomorr ow.VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
31*  Sour ce: Stephen B. Pociask, “Building a Nation -
wide Br oadband Network: Speeding Job Gr owth,” 
TeleNomic Resear ch, February 25, 2002.
New communications technologies 
have the potential to further trans -
form and str engthen our social fabric. 
Through telemedicine and electr onic 
health-car e records we can help r e-
duce the costs of health car e. Thr ough 
distance lear ning, we can impr ove 
and enhance education and extend 
its reach to mor e people. Thr ough 
expanded br oadband access, we can 
connect underserved communities to 
the global economy and pr ovide new 
opportunities for people with disabili -
ties. And thr ough our continued focus 
on innovation and investment, we can 
create jobs in the knowledge economy 
that will give our communities a ﬁrm 
foothold on the futur e.
Verizon is committed to being 
America’ s leading br oadband com -
pany . No company has committed 
more resour ces to deploy br oadband 
networks and services than V erizon. 
We addr ess the br oadband market 
with a variety of technologies, and 
we pr ovide a range of pr oducts with 
featur es, speeds and prices to suit vir -
tually every segment of the br oadband 
market (See Building Br oadband’ s 
Futur e, page 16).
 
STIMULATING LOC AL ECONO MIES
Since beginning our deployment of 
FTTP in late 2004, V erizon has added 
more than 8, 100 new jobs r elated to 
construction and installation of this 
new technology . The new jobs we 
create thr ough our investment in ﬁber 
have a far -reaching ripple ef fect on lo -
cal economies acr oss America:
• The 2, 400 new jobs we cr eated in 
2004 equaled mor e than $112 million 
in dir ect wages and salaries (excluding 
beneﬁts).
• The spillover , or indir ect ef fect, 
was even bigger . When you include in -
creased demand for household goods, 
services, automobiles and other 
consumer durables, our 2004 job cr e-
ation added $338 million of incr eased 
economic activity .
• For 2005, the total of dir ect and 
indirect economic ef fects of the 5, 700 
new jobs is appr oximately $800 million.
• Accor ding to leading economists, 
every new ﬁber -related job we cr eate 
leads to another four jobs being cr e-
ated in the economy;* thus, our ﬁber initiative in 2005 accounted for an 
estimated 23,000 new jobs.
Here’s how that “multiplier ef -
fect” plays out in one local economy: 
Providence, R.I. 
Verizon opened a Fiber Solutions 
Center in Pr ovidence in early 2005. The 
center employed appr oximately 150 
people in 2005 and will add up to 200 
more people over the next two to thr ee 
years. These jobs will add appr oxi-
mately $7 million to $ 16 million in wag -
es and income to the local economy . 
Adding in the 4-to- 1 multiplier ef fect, 
the total impact could be a nearly $50 
million incr ease in economic activity in 
Providence and nearby ar eas over the 
next two to thr ee years.
Our wir eless business has also 
been a signiﬁcant engine for job 
growth in the communities we serve. 
In 2005, V erizon Wir eless opened its 
ﬁrst bilingual T elesales Center in the 
Midwest, located in Chicago. 
The addition of the bilingual 
Telesales Center is part of V erizon 
Wireless’ continued ef fort to meet the 
needs of its Spanish-speaking custom -
ers and to support the Hispanic com -
munity thr ough economic investment 
and new job opportunities. A toll-fr ee 
bilingual telesales number (800-505-
8102) r outes calls dir ectly to a bilingual 
representative at the new T elesales 
Center . 
During 2005, V erizon Wir eless also 
created mor e than 500 new jobs in the 
New Y ork Metr o area to help the com -
pany meet the gr owing demand for its 
wireless voice and data pr oducts and 
services. Recruiting for several hun -
dred of those positions happened at 
a job fair held with the Br onx Bor ough 
President’ s ofﬁce and the Bronx Overall 
Economic Development Corporation.
STIMULATING SUPPLIER GROWTH
Verizon’ s broadband investment is also 
a catalyst for innovation and economic 
activity among the many suppliers who 
provide us with telecommunications 
equipment and services. 
We have worked closely with a 
number of suppliers to develop the 
hardwar e and softwar e to deploy our BRINGING BROADBAND BEYOND THE CITY
An innova tive alliance between Verizon Avenue,  Alvarion and 
Virginia Mountain Micro built a wireless,  high-speed Internet-
access network tha t allows qualifying homes and businesses  
in Grundy, Va., to connect to the Internet 
at speeds up to 1.5 megabits per 
second.  The pilot project also presents 
new opportunities for e-commerce,  
distance learning,  telemedicine,  
telework and other beneﬁts of living 
in a broadband community .
Verizon Avenue delivered broadband Internet access to Grundy 
from several wireless base sta tions do wnto wn. Verizon also 
offered its Verizon Online high-speed digital subscriber line 
(DSL) services over existing telephone lines.  The goal is to 
deplo y and market the wireless and DSL broadband ser vices 
in a coordina ted manner to maximize covera ge to Grundy and 
surrounding areas.
Alvarion provided wireless equipment and training for the 
project as a demonstra tion of the compan y’s continued support 
and commitment to this market.  Virginia Mountain Micro, a local 
compan y, provided installa tion and maintenance ser vices.LIVIN G OUR VALUES
32DELIVERING THE BRO ADBAND PROMISE
John Harlow , The Freedom Calls Founda tion
“At the Fr eedom Calls Foundation, we use br oadband to 
keep families in touch with loved ones deployed to the 
war zone 24 hours a day fr ee of char ge. W e are changing 
a centuries-old paradigm of family communication during 
wartime by enabling our military personnel to attend and 
participate in milestone family events like births, wed -
dings, First Communions and par ent teacher confer ences 
via video confer ence. 
Thousands of soldiers and marines utilize our services 
every day to be closer to their families while ﬁghting a war 
nine thousand miles away . We have enabled our soldiers 
and marines to keep their commitments to their families 
while keeping their commitment to their country . 
Family is important—particularly in wartime.”
VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
33
2003
2004
200516.0
14.0
12.0
10.0
8.0
6.0
4.0
2.0
0(IN BILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
Salaries and 
Wages
Capital 
Expenditur es
Dividends to 
Shar eholders
Interest Paid 
on Debt 
Instruments
Income and 
Other Taxes 
Paid, Net of 
Refunds*
Pension 
and Other 
Retirement 
Payments
*  Taxes paid in 2005 wer e higher than 2004 primarily due to a higher ef fective income tax rate in 2005 (30.3%) versus 2004 (28.2%). 
The ef fective tax rate was higher due to taxes on overseas ear nings r epatriated during the year under the pr ovisions of the American 
Jobs Cr eation Act of 2004, lower for eign-r elated tax beneﬁts and lower favorable deferr ed tax r econciliation adjustments.IMPACT O F VERIZON ON U.S. ECONO MY
•  Nearly $13 billion in salaries and wa ges 
 -  Represents nearly 1.5% of U.S. wages in trade,  transporta tion and utility industr y
•  Over $15 billion in ca pital expenditures (network,  equipment,  infrastructure)
 -  Comprises over 3% of U.S. capital expenditures in informa tion processing equipment and software
 -  Accounts for over 5% of U.S. business investment in computer and peripheral equipment and software 
•   $8 billion in federal,  state and other taxes,  net of refunds
  -  Represents nearly 0.3% of all taxes collected in the U.S. for calendar year 2005.  All taxes in the U.S.  
include all personal and corpora te income taxes,  sales and property taxes and taxes paid for social 
insurance programs (e.g.  Social Security and unemplo yment insurance)
•   $4.4 billion in dividends
   -  Represents nearly 1% of U.S. personal dividend Income 
•   $2.1 billion in net interest payments
 -   Represents nearly 0.5% of U.S. net interest and miscellaneous payments by domestic industries 
•  $4.7 billion in retiree beneﬁts (inc ludes pension,  health-care and life insurance beneﬁts)Verizon technicians 
roll out ﬁber every 
day for customers 
choosing the 
limitless power of 
Verizon FiOS ﬁber 
to the pr emises. SUPPLIER DIVERSITY AWARDS
• George Dowell, vice president  – supply chain ser vices,  received a special 
Chairman’ s Award from the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce ( USHCC) a t its 
2005 annual conference.  The award ackno wledges Dowell’s leadership on behalf of 
Verizon as chairperson of the USHCC Procurement Council.  Dowell has chaired the 
Procurement Council for the past four years and has led it in developing stra tegies 
that have succeeded in increasing business opportunities for Hispanic ﬁrms.  
• Verizon Wireless was named to the Diversity Business.com 2005 Div50,  
a list of the top 50 corpora te buyers of products and ser vices from women- and 
minority-o wned businesses in the United States. The list was voted on by more 
than 350,000 women- and minority-o wned businesses.
• The Women’ s Business Council- Southwest recently recognized Verizon during 
its Founder’ s Diamond Anniversar y celebra tion as one of the organiza tion’s 19 
founding corpora tions.LIVIN G OUR VALUES
34JOB GROWTH AT VERMEER MANU FACTURING COMPANY
Over the past two years,  Vermeer Manufacturing Compan y and Vermeer 
dealerships loca ted throughout the United States ha ve experienced a 40 percent 
growth in sales as a result of our ﬁber -to-the-premises ( FTTP ) projects.
Vermeer Manufacturing Compan y, based in Pella, Iowa, offers a wide range of 
compact horizontal directional drilling machines used to place underground ﬁ ber. 
“From 200 4 to 2005,  Vermeer doubled its production of compact directional 
drills”  says Dave Wisniewski,  senior director  – underground business segment of 
Vermeer , principally because of Verizon FTTP  projects.
To continue with its development of underground technologies for FTTP  growth, 
Vermeer has increased its workforce by 10 percent by hiring solution engineers  
and production emplo yees.
Vermeer dealerships ha ve also been affected by Verizon FTTP  projects.  Mark 
Krueger , Vermeer of Texas,  says tha t growth a t his dealership has been fueled 
by Verizon FTTP  projects.  Over the past two years Krueger a ttributes the sales of 
nearly 100 directional drilling machines,  50 vacuum exca vation trailers,  and other 
equipment inc luding trenchers,  Hammerhead® moles,  and la wn plo ws to Verizon 
FTTP  projects.  “Besides sales of equipment,  we ha ve added ser vice personnel to 
take care of the drills tha t are on these jobs and ha ve added a customer ser vice 
van tha t travels to these jobs to deliver parts, ” Krueger says.  ﬁber network. T ellabs and Motor ola 
provide the optical electr onics for the 
project. Motor ola also helped build 
the video capability of the network, 
providing head-end technology 
and digital set-tops. ADC, Cor ning 
Cable Systems, Fiber Optic Network 
Solutions, Pir elli Communications 
Cables and Systems North America, 
Preformed Line Pr oducts, Sumitomo 
Electric Lightwave and T yco 
Electr onics pr ovided the ﬁber -optic 
cabling and other outside plant equip -
ment. DYNIS helped pr ovide engineer -
ing and network installation services, 
and Mas Tec is one of our lar gest 
providers of outside plant construction 
services. Y ahoo! pr ovided a fully inte -
grated web portal to V erizon Online’ s 
FiOS and DSL subscribers.
PROMOTING SUPPLIER DIVERSITY 
Building a str ong base of diverse sup -
pliers is critical to our mission. Str ong 
supplier r elationships contribute to 
customer loyalty , stimulate economic 
development and tap into the innova -
tion and entr epreneurship we need to 
win in the marketplace. W e also have 
a number of pr ograms to ensur e that 
these pr ocurement opportunities ex -
tend to a diverse gr oup of suppliers.
Verizon’ s Supplier Diversity 
organization works to cr eate mutu -
ally beneﬁcial r elationships and to 
provide pr ocurement opportuni -
ties for businesses owned and 
contr olled by Minority , Women, 
Disabled, V ietnam-Era and Service-
Disabled V eterans (MWDVBEs). 
Our goal is to incr ease spending 
with MWDVBEs year over year . 
To bring that commitment to life, 
Verizon is a founding member of the 
Billion Dollar Roundtable, a coalition of 
12 U.S. companies that spend at least 
$1 billion each year with MWDVBEs. 
Verizon pur chased mor e than $2. 1 
billion in goods and services fr om 
these suppliers in 2005, a $392 million 
increase compar ed with 2004.
In 2006, we r estructur ed our 
sourcing operations into a single 
strategic sour cing or ganization, which 
will be r esponsible for pur chasing on 
behalf of our thr ee strategic busi -
ness units: V erizon Business, V erizon Wireless and V erizon T elecom. In 
addition to maximizing our pur chas -
ing power , this new or ganization will 
work to maintain and str engthen 
our supplier diversity pr ogram. 
BURRE LL COMMUNIC ATIONS  – PARTNERS IN MU LTICU LTURA L CONNECTIONS
One way Verizon supports the community is through our partnerships with min ority- and women-o wned 
and controlled businesses,  such as Burrell Communica tions.  Burrell is an African- American advertising 
agency tha t helps its c lients build brands tha t have long-standing rela tionships with their customers.  
Burrell has helped ensure Verizon messa ges are c lear and told through strong visual executions.  
Most recently Burrell assisted Verizon in successfully addressing our gro wing African- American market 
with the Verizon “Realize”  campaign deplo yed in our Philadelphia and Washington,  D.C., service areas.  
The Realize campaign,  which fea tures real stories of African Americans who use broadband to make their 
dreams come true,  has had extensive covera ge in the trade,  Internet,  newspa per and broadcast media.  
Jerri DeVard, senior vice president  – brand mana gement and marketing for Verizon,  has praised Burrell for 
its entrepreneurial spirit and crea tivity in developing new ideas for us.
Burrell Communica tions continues to provide valuable resources,  including target-market idea genera tion, 
planning and collabora tion with Verizon’ s marketing teams.VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
35“ WE HAVE MADE IT A PRIORITY 
TO OFFER CUSTOMERS 
ENVIRONMENTALLY SAFE 
ALTERNATIVES THAT MAKE IT 
EASY FOR THEM TO RECYCLE 
AND CONSERVE RESOURCES.” DENNY STRIGL,  President and C EO—Verizon Wireless PROTECTING THE ENVIRON MENT
36
LIVIN G OUR VALUES36Reducing Our W aste Line
Victor Ng, Norman Ng, and 
Derrick W ong of Fortune Metals, 
in Jersey City , N.J., ar e working 
with V erizon to r ecycle our 
ﬁber, copper and plastic, and to 
recondition materials for r euse 
whenever possible.
37ONE OF THE MANY SO CIAL BENEFITS of information technology is its 
potential to have a positive impact on the envir onment. T elework, 
teleconfer encing, distance lear ning and e-commer ce all help minimize 
travel, save ener gy and r educe pollution. By deploying br oadband 
networks, V erizon helps enable America to be accountable for 
improving the envir onment and conserving r esour ces.
We also believe in taking r esponsibility for managing the 
envir onmental ef fect of operating a global, 24/7 business. W e operate 
tens of thousands of vehicles, occupy millions of squar e feet of r eal 
estate, and consume a lar ge amount of ener gy to keep our networks 
running. Whether it’ s through conserving ener gy, applying r ecycling 
technologies, or ﬁnding innovative technological solutions  
to envir onmental challenges, V erizon is committed to being a 
respectful, r esponsible and positive inﬂuence on the envir onment  
in which we live and operate.VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
37CO2 EMISSIONS IN METRIC TONS
 2004 2005
 Gasoline  425,043 439,858
 Diesel   53,354 57,998
 Electricity  4,975,424 5,198,546
 Total 5,453,821 5,696,402
Total without conservation measur es 5,606,821 5,811,402LIVIN G OUR VALUES
38POLICY IN P LACE
Recognizing our widespr ead impact 
on communities acr oss the country 
and the world, V erizon has adopted 
a compr ehensive envir onmental and 
safety policy that expr essly char ges 
all our employees with r esponsible 
stewar dship of our natural r esour ces. 
Our policy r eads:
“Verizon companies shall con -
duct business in an envir onmen -
tally r esponsible manner and pr ovide 
employees with a safe and healthy 
workplace. All employees and others 
who conduct business on behalf of a 
Verizon Company must comply with 
all applicable Company pr ograms and 
federal, state and local laws r elating 
to protection of the envir onment or 
human safety and health. V erizon com -
panies shall implement and maintain 
systems and pr ograms with appr opri-
ate gover nance to meet this policy .”
Despite having mor e than 18,000 
owned and leased buildings and 
56,000 vehicles, V erizon r eceived only 
78 envir onmental incidents of noncom -
pliance fr om regulatory agencies in 
2005. W e take all noncompliances seri -
ously and actively investigate the r oot 
causes to implement corr ective mea -
sures to prevent reoccurr ence. Our ma-
jor envir onmental accomplishments of 
2005 fall under thr ee br oad headings:
ENERGY CONSERV ATION
We are growing our network to pr ovide 
new services, such as br oadband, that 
bring beneﬁts to consumers. Incr eased 
network capacity r esults in an incr ease 
in our ener gy use. W e have implement -
ed a number of pr ograms to incr ease 
our ener gy efﬁciency and to pr omote 
conservation. Our absolute incr ease 
in ener gy use is of fset by the fact that 
energy-conservation ef forts eliminated 
more than 115,000 metric tons of CO2 
emissions in 2005, and mor e than 
153,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions 
in 2004. In the absence of these pr o-
grams, our overall ener gy usage would 
have been much higher . 
IMPROVING THROUGH INNOV ATION
Verizon is a leader in using technol -
ogy to r educe ener gy costs, impr ove 
efﬁciency and minimize envir onmental 2005 ENVIRON MENTAL AWARDS
U.S. EPA WASTEWISE VERY LARGE BUSINESS PARTNER O F THE YEAR
The Environmental Protection Agency selected Verizon as the WasteWise Very Large Business 
“Partner of the Year” for our comprehensive waste-mana gement program tha t includes waste 
prevention,  reduction,  recycling and our purchase of rec ycled products.  The award cited 
Verizon’ s commitment to environmental responsibility . This is the eighth a ward we’ve received 
in the program’ s nine-year histor y. Verizon has more WasteWise Awards than an y other 
telecommunica tions compan y.
OUTST ANDING ACHIEVE MENT IN RECYC LING: BUSINESS CATEGOR Y
Montgomer y County , Md., recognized Verizon a t its Sixth Annual Recycling Awareness Week 
Awards Ceremon y. We were commended for surpassing the county’ s goal of 50 percent  
recycling by exceeding 70 percent rec ycling as a result of our comprehensive waste reduction 
and rec ycling program.  
WESTCHESTER COUNTY RECYC LING AWARDS 
Verizon Wireless teamed up with Westchester County , N.Y., to encoura ge residents to dispose 
of used cell phones in an environmentally friendly way and,  at the same time,  help victims of 
domestic violence.  Through Verizon Wireless’ HopeLine® program,  Westchester became the ﬁrst 
county in the na tion to offer the program to all municipalities within its border s. 
BEST WORKP LACES FOR COMMUTERS
Verizon was recognized by the EPA and the U.S. Department of Transporta tion as one of the “best 
workplaces for commuters”  for its programs in Boston; Newark,  N.J.; Westchester County , N.Y.; 
and Everett,  Wash. The Best Workplaces for Commuters program recognizes emplo yers tha t are 
leaders in offering superior commuter beneﬁts.
impacts. W e made some key strides in 
2005 in the ar ea of alter native electric -
ity generation technologies: 
Micro turbines. One example 
of a distributed generation pilot is 
micro turbine-based cogeneration. 
In two Califor nia central ofﬁces, 
Verizon will use micr o turbines ﬁr ed 
by natural gas to generate electricity . 
The demonstrations ar e scheduled 
to be completed in the ﬁrst quarter of 
2006 and will pr ovide appr oximately 
50 per cent of the electricity r equir ed Paul Belar d 
(foreground) with 
Jon Chestnut and 
Tom Donnelly , 
spearheaded the 
largest trial of 
alternative energy 
use in America at 
Verizon’ s Gar den 
City, N.Y ., switching 
center and ofﬁces 
(below).
VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
39in each central ofﬁce. Combined, 
the systems will r educe gr eenhouse-
gas emissions by appr oximately 
6.6 thousand tons per year . 
Hypalon roof. The Hypalon 
membrane-r ooﬁng system uses a 
highly r eﬂective surface and incr eased 
insulation to impr ove ener gy efﬁciency . 
Hypalon r oofs ar e EPA Ener gy Star 
approved and, when combined with 
increased insulation, r educe overall 
building heating and air conditioning 
requir ements compar ed to buildings 
with standar d rooﬁng materials. 
Verizon has installed mor e than 
300 Hypalon r oofs to date in Califor nia, 
Arizona, Hawaii, Nevada, Or egon, 
Washington and Texas. Our Real Estate 
team is studying the value of expand -
ing Hypalon r ooﬁng acr oss V erizon.
 Fuel cells. In 2005, we launched a 
major trial of an envir onmentally friend -
ly technology at our switching center 
and ofﬁce building in Gar den City , N.Y. 
The pr oject—the lar gest of its 
kind in the country—consists of 
seven fuel cells, each of which is 
capable of generating 200 kilowatts 
of electrical power per hour , enough 
to supply the ener gy needs of about 
400 single-family households. 
By using electricity generated 
by the fuel cells and r eclaiming the 
heat and water they pr oduce to 
help heat and cool the building, 
Verizon will eliminate annually ap -40,000
30,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
 2003  2004  2005VERIZON PAPER  
AND CARDBOARD  
RECYCLING 
(IN TONS)TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
EQUIPMENT AND ASSOCIATED 
MATERIALS RECYCLING 
(IN TONS)
 2003  2004  200570,000
60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
0
Note: The numbers include 
ofﬁce paper/car dboar d and 
paper generated as a by-
product of phone dir ectory 
production.
proximately 1 1.1 million pounds of 
CO2 that would have been emitted 
into the atmospher e by a fossil-fuel-
based power plant of similar size.
Verizon’ s Gar den City pr oject is 
unique because the existing com -
mercial power grid, the new fuel 
cells and existing V erizon backup 
power generators work together to 
meet any set of operational needs 
requir ed. They include electrical 
backup for commer cial power out -
ages, natural disasters and periods of 
peak commer cial power demands.
MANAGING RESOURCES 
EFFECTIVE LY
There are three components to 
recycling: separating and collecting 
recyclable material, using that material 
to manufactur e new pr oducts and 
creating a market for r ecycled-con -
tent pr oducts. While V erizon does not 
manufactur e products, we support this 
value chain at every level by r educ -
ing waste, r ecycling materials and 
purchasing r ecycled pr oducts. In 2005, 
Verizon’ s nationwide r ecycling and 
green-pur chasing pr ograms helped 
recycle over 98,000 tons of material, 
including over 35,000 tons of paper 
and car dboar d, and pur chase mor e 
than 177,000 tons of r ecycled content 
products worth mor e than $83 million. Following ar e some highlights of our 
recycling pr ograms:
Waste Minimization. We have a 
number of pr ograms in place to r educe 
or eliminate the use of paper .
Our customers can view and pay 
their phone bills online. T o date, cus -
tomers have paid mor e than 91 million 
bills online. Wir eline customers can 
register for this service at http://www .
verizon.com/paperfr eebilling. Our 
wireless customers can do the same 
by registering for paperless billing at 
http://www .verizonwir eless.com. 
Via our SuperPages W eb site 
(http://www .superpages.com), con -
sumers and businesses can access our  
directories online. 
Verizon of fers businesses the 
option of r eceiving dir ectories 
on CD. This change r esulted in 
Verizon’ s printing appr oximately 
248,000 fewer dir ectories in 2005, 
and our r educing paper use by 
almost 500 tons.
Wireless Phone Battery 
Recycling. Verizon Wir eless r etail 
stores ar e participating in the 
Rechar geable Battery Recycling 
Corporation’ s Char ge Up to 
Recycle! pr ogram for collecting 
spent r echar geable batteries. This 
program educates the public about 
the need to r ecycle batteries and 
provides collection containers at 
retail stor es wher e replacement 
batteries ar e sold. Customers can 
drop their used r echar geable batteries 
at any of our r etail locations nation -
wide. W e will ship the batteries dir ectly 
to the r ecycling facility for pr ocessing.
Between the HopeLine and Char ge 
Up to Recycle! pr ograms, V erizon 
Wireless r ecycled 77,855 pounds of 
batteries in 2004 and another 146,344 
pounds in 2005.
For mor e information about the 
Char ge Up to Recycle! pr ogram call 
1-800-8-BA TTER Y or visit http://www .
rbrc.com.
Telecommunications Equipment 
Recycling. Verizon operates r ecov -
ery facilities, located thr oughout the 
nation, to help dispose of vehicles, r e-
cover and r edeploy personal comput -
ers, and r emove network equipment.LIVIN G OUR VALUES
40
HOPELINE PROGRAM
 Number  of 
Phones   
CollectedNumber  of 
Phones   
RecycledNumber  of 
Phones  Donat -
ed to SheltersCash  Grants   
Donated  from 
HopeLine  
Funds
2003*  462,031 74,493 6,273 $163,003
2004 722,070 139,042 11,573 $790,026
2005 852,460 267,207 9,600 $748,647
*  Prior to 2003 HopeLine r eleased cumulative r esults; all data ar e now annualized.Recycling cellphones improves the environment and can change lives for the 
better , too. Verizon Wireless collects used wireless phones and equipment from 
any ser vice provider; these phones are rec ycled, refurbished and resold through 
the HopeLine program.  Since 2001,  HopeLine has rec ycled or refurbished more 
than 2.5 million phones and kept more than 200 tons of electronics waste and 
batteries out of landﬁlls.  
The proceeds of HopeLine go to support victims of domestic violence.  With 
the funds raised from the sale of the refurbished phones,  Verizon Wireless 
dona tes wireless phones and airtime to domestic-violence victims.  We have 
also dona ted more than $2  million in grants and other contributions to nonpro ﬁt 
domestic-violence shelters and prevention programs across the countr y, such 
as the Family Violence Prevention Fund, the National Coalition Against 
Domestic Violence and local community interest groups.
Used phones can be returned to an y Verizon Wireless retail store 
nationwide.  For more informa tion about HopeLine please visit http://www .
verizonwireless.com/hopeline.
 
COMPASS POINTS
Accounta bility
VERIZON WIRE LESS HOPELINE®For example, when an employee 
gets a new computer , the used 
equipment is r epair ed and cleaned, 
equipped with new softwar e and r ede-
ployed elsewher e in the company . In 
2005 this pr ogram saved V erizon mor e 
than $7.3 million while r edeploying 
about 12,000 desktop and laptop com -
puters, printers, monitors and r elated 
parts. PCs that ar e not r edeployable 
are sold to r ecyclers.
Verizon also recycled or redeployed 
over 65,000 tons of telecommunica -
tions equipment in 2005 thr ough the 
maintenance or upgrading of our 
network. 
Green Purchasing. Verizon helps 
close the r ecycling loop by buying r e-
cycled content pr oducts. Ofﬁce supply 
purchases totaled almost $2. 1 million 
for 1,500 pr oducts in 2005. Almost $1.2 
million or over 60 per cent contained 
recycled content. 
Following ar e some examples of 
green pur chases made in 2005:
• 169,000 tons of 40 per cent post-
consumer r ecycled paper for use in our 
directories;
• 195,000 pounds of ofﬁce paper 
with an average r ecycled content of 
over 26 per cent, and over 90 per cent 
had some post-consumer content;
• Business car ds and billing forms 
used 10 per cent post-consumer r e-
cycled paper;
• The national contract speciﬁcations 
for janitorial paper supplies r equir e 20 
percent to 45 per cent post-consumer 
recycled content;
• Remanufactur ed toner cartridges 
amounted to 5,600;
• More than 22,000 r ecycled vehicle 
batteries; and
• Appr oximately 12 million pounds  
of reclaimed soil for r euse in construc -
tion pr ojects.
Our aggr essive r ecycling pr ogram 
helps us r educe waste, support the 
recycled content market and minimize 
the impact of our operations on the en -
vironment. Our waste pr evention and 
recycling activities also help to r educe 
greenhouse-gas emissions.  So wha t does all of this really mean? Over the last  
few years,  between our energ y conser vation, waste 
prevention and rec ycling programs,  we ha ve reduced our 
greenhouse-gas emissions,  on a verage, by over 300,000 
metric tons of C O2 per year . This is equivalent to:
OVER 60,000 P ASSENGER 
CARS NO T DRIVEN FOR 
ONE YEAR; OR 
THE ANNUA L POWER 
CONSU MPTION O F 38,000 
HOUSEHO LDS; OR
CONSERVING OVER 34 
MILLION GA LLONS O F 
GASO LINE; OR
GROWING MORE 
THAN 7,500,000 TREE 
SEED LINGS FOR 10  
YEARS; OR
APPROXI MATELY 2,400 
ACRES O F FOREST 
PRESERVED FROM 
DEFOREST ATION.  *
*  Based on the U.S. Climate T echnology Cooperation W eb site, a pr oject of 
the Global Envir onment and T echnology Foundation in partnership with 
the U.S. Agency for Inter national Development and the U.S. Envir onmen -
tal Pr otection Agency (http://www .usctcgateway .net/tool).
 
VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
41“ WE SEE OUR ROLE AS ONE WHERE 
OUR ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY 
AND OTHER RESOURCES ARE 
USED TO EMPOWER COMMUNITIES 
COMMITTED TO HELPING PEOPLE 
SUCCEED IN THE DIGITAL AGE.”PATRICK GASTON, President—V erizon Foundation PARTNERING WITH COMMUNITIES
42LIVIN G OUR VALUES
42Getting Everyone Connected
Rosaline Pinnock demonstrates 
the power of br oadband to Gilbert 
A. Ford III while his family pursues 
purchasing DSL for their home.
Events such as the Black Family 
Reunion pr ovide an opportunity 
for V erizon to r each a br oad range 
of communities. 
43WITH MORE THAN 250,000  employees, a nationwide presence 
and signiﬁcant global r each, V erizon has the r esour ces, 
the scope, and—we believe—the r esponsibility to make a 
positive impact on the thousands of communities wher e 
our customers and employees live and work.
Through the V erizon Foundation we partner with local 
communities and nonpr oﬁt or ganizations to addr ess 
needs both domestically and inter nationally . We direct 
our resour ces towar d initiatives that demonstrate how 
technology touches lives, especially in the ar eas of literacy 
and pr eventing domestic violence.VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
43LIVIN G OUR VALUES
44Verizon is a leader in the use of 
communications technologies to 
transform communities and lives. 
That’ s why the V erizon Foundation’ s 
funding priorities include pr ograms that 
help communities, or ganizations and 
individuals become savvier in their use 
of computers, online r esour ces and 
wireless technologies.
Our ef forts in expanding the 
use of br oadband ar e evident in our 
awar d-winning V erizon Foundation 
Web site (http://www .verizon.com/
foundation), which employs online 
tools to manage all funding r equests 
from nonpr oﬁts, encouraging them 
to bolster their online capabilities 
and impr ove their ef fectiveness. 
Central to V erizon’ s commitment to 
community is the cr eativity , optimism, 
and dedication of V erizon employees 
and r etirees. Thr ough their volun -
teer ef forts for company-sponsor ed 
initiatives and their own causes, our 
employees impr ove their communities 
and people’ s lives.
IMPROVING LITERACY LEVE LS
Verizon contributed $13.6 million in 
2005 to assist the estimated 40 million 
Americans who struggle with low lit -
eracy skills. With our literacy partners, 
we also have developed a rich online 
resour ce, http://www .verizonr eads.net, 
which pr ovides valuable information, 
contacts and tools, and also accepts 
online donations.
We have engaged our millions of 
customers in the ﬁght to raise literacy 
levels thr ough our Check into Literacy 
program, which gives customers the 
option of donating a dollar fr om their 
phone bill by simply checking of f a box 
on their payment form.
TRAINING TEACHERS
One of the best ways to impr ove the 
literacy of futur e elementary school 
students is by pr oviding special train -
ing for the next generation of teach -
ers—people like Lisa Blink, a junior at 
Loras College in Dubuque, Iowa.
Blink is one of the students who is 
beneﬁting fr om a 2005 grant of mor e 
than $350,000 made to Loras College by the V erizon Foundation. The gift 
helped cr eate the Loras for Literacy 
program, a series of literacy initia -
tives that pr ovide special instruction 
for education majors and teachers to 
better equip them to build the basic 
literacy skills of childr en in second to 
fourth grade.
Blink, who signed on to become 
an inter n in the Loras for Literacy 
program last year , said she knew ther e 
was a pr oblem with low literacy skills 
in America, but she didn’ t know how it 
could be solved.
“I didn’ t know just how close to 
home it could hit,” she said. “I thought 
it was a big-city pr oblem, but it’ s right 
here in the Midwest.”
Blink said that thr ough the pr o-
gram, she’ s gaining an insight into 
what it means to work one-on-one with 
students who ar e struggling with r ead-
ing. “It’ s a dif ferent experience, and I 
get a behind-the-scenes look at what it 
takes to make things happen and help 
improve the literacy skills of childr en 
and adults.”
Gwen Countryman, assistant 
professor of education and dir ector 
of program development for Loras, 
said the Loras for Literacy pr ogram 
means the college can of fer “another 
level of depth to our students’ educa -
tion—something that wouldn’ t have 
been available without this grant fr om 
Verizon.”
READING AND SUCCEEDING
Like all par ents, Susan V asquez wants 
her four childr en to succeed. 
And while she might not know 
the statistics about low literacy rates 
among Latino youth, she’ s making sur e 
her childr en ar e not among them. The 
Vasquez childr en participate in an early 
literacy pr ogram called Lee y serás  
(Read and Y ou Will Be) funded, in part, 
by the V erizon Foundation. Other part -
ners ar e book publisher Scholastic and 
the National Council of La Raza. 
The bilingual curriculum is gr ound -
ed in Latino cultur e. It pr ovides family 
members, car e providers, educators 
and other community members with 
resour ces to help cr eate literacy-rich envir onments for Latino childr en in 
their homes and neighborhoods. The 
aim is to ensur e that all Latino childr en 
are ready for school.
Vasquez, who was bor n in 
Mexico City and raised in and ar ound 
Washington, D.C., was intr oduced 
to the pr ogram at CentroNía , a 
Washington, D.C., educational or ga-
nization for childr en and families. She 
said the pr ogram is “exactly what we 
and our childr en need.”
“With my busy schedule, some -
times it’ s difﬁcult to ﬁt in some  
reading time,” V asquez said. “But  
now we can perform Lee y serás  
activities anytime, anywher e.”
To build support for Lee y serás 
and pr ograms like it, the V erizon 
Foundation gave a $200,000 grant to 
fund the development of local leader -
ship institutes that will engage Latino 
leaders in business, education, gover n-
ment and other ar eas. These pr ograms 
will pr epare local Latino leaders to be -
come advocates for literacy initiatives. 
Verizon’ s Hispanic Support 
Organization (HSO), an employee 
resour ce gr oup, will play a major r ole in 
getting community leaders involved in 
VERIZON RECEIVES INAUGURA L QUILLS  
CORPORA TE LITERACY AWARD 
For its long-standing commitment to advancing 
literac y and encoura ging collabora tion among 
providers of literac y programs,  Verizon received 
the ﬁrst ever Quills Corpora te Literac y Award.
The Quills a wards honors organiza tions and individuals 
that promote reading and literac y in more than 15 
categories,  including Book of the Year, Rookie of 
the Year and Lifetime Achievement a wards.
Quills Literac y Founda tion Chairman Gerry Byrne cited 
Verizon’ s efforts to raise literac y levels in America through 
a national program—V erizon Reads—tha t supports a 
wide array of literac y programs and increases a wareness 
of the problem.  “Through its programs and its emplo yees,  
Verizon has been a uniquely enthusiastic and committed 
leader tha t truly celebra tes the written word and is making 
a difference, ” Byrne said.  “This is a well-deser ved a ward.”  A young student takes 
advantage of one of the 
Verizon technology centers 
in the Dominican Republic.Lee y serás  in Verizon-served territo -
ries. The 5,400 members will collabo -
rate with the partner or ganizations over 
the next year to design and develop 
the leadership institutes. 
VERIZON INTERNA TIONA L 
FOUND ATION
Verizon’ s special focus on literacy ex -
tends to our inter national philanthr opy. 
In 2001, the V erizon Inter national Foun -
dation and V erizon Dominicana began 
a partnership with Save the Childr en 
U.S. and Fudeco (Save the Childr en-
Dominican Republic) to develop a 
program to help childr en from remote 
and impoverished Dominican Republic 
communities develop computer skills. 
A $100,000 contribution in 2005 
brought the amount of V erizon’ s sup -
port for the initiative in the past ﬁve 
years to $534,000. The grants have 
funded the construction of four tech -
nology centers in communities near the 
Haitian bor der.
More than 5,000 students and 
adults have taken advantage of the 
three-month computer courses since 
the pr ogram began. 
Community acceptance of  
the pr oject has gar nered attention  
from members of the Dominican 
Republic’ s Ministry of Education,  
who say that the efﬁciency and ef fec-
tiveness of the V erizon centers make 
them models for futur e gover nment-
sponsor ed pr ograms.
BREAKING THE CYCLE
Our initiatives to help the victims 
of domestic violence ar e carried 
out thr ough HopeLine, the primary 
philanthr opic pr ogram of V erizon 
Wireless. In 2005, V erizon Wir eless 
collected mor e than 850,000 used 
cell phones thr ough its own stor es 
and thr ough community pr ograms. 
The phones, given to domestic-
violence victims by local agencies, 
enable those who may be thr eatened 
to reach help quickly in emer gency 
situations. Since 2001, V erizon has 
contributed mor e than $2 million to 
the pr evention of domestic violence.
VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
45LIVIN G OUR VALUES
46Verizon employees like Lisa 
Thomas have lear ned ther e 
is mor e to life than work by 
spending thousands of hours 
each year volunteering and 
sharing their talents and skills 
with their neighbors. VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
47MATCHING GIFTS TO 
NONPROFITS FROM  
VERIZON FOUNDATION 
(IN MILLIONS)FUNDS GIVEN/ 
RAISED 
BY VERIZON  
VOLUNTEERS 
(IN MILLIONS)
25
20
15
10
5
0
 2003  2004  2005**
 2003  2004  2005*25
20
15
10
5
0CASH GRANTS  
AWARDED TO  
NONPROFITS
(IN MILLIONS)
 
 2003  2004  2005***60
50
40
30
20
10
0LITERACY EFFORTS EARN A ‘STEVIE’
Verizon earned the 2005 American 
Business Award for Corpora te Social 
Responsibility for its signa ture na tional 
literac y program,  Verizon Reads.
Better kno wn as the “Stevies”  for  
the Greek word for “crown” 
(stephanos),  the American Business 
Awards honor grea t performances in 
the business world,  with winners in 
dozens of ca tegories.
Verizon Reads is a na tional program 
to increase community a wareness 
and to genera te additional funding 
and support for literac y initia tives tha t 
serve adults,  children and families.  
In 2005 Verizon Reads a warded 903 
grants totaling more than $1 3.6 million 
to such programs as the American 
Founda tion for the Blind and National 
Center for Family Literac y. In addition to HopeLine, the 
Verizon Foundation has worked to  
ﬁnd solutions to r esolve some of  
the ancillary pr oblems r elated to  
domestic violence.
For example, to help pr otect the 
crime’ s youngest victims—childr en—  
the V erizon Foundation supported a 
free par enting education pr ogram  
in Studio City , Calif.
The pr ogram, of fered by The 
Center for the Impr ovement of Child 
Caring (CICC), pr ovides guidebooks, 
such as “The Power of Positive 
Parenting” and video par enting pr o-
grams, such as “Spanking, Shaking, 
Hitting: What T o Do Instead” and 
“Yelling, Thr eatening, Putting Down: 
What T o Do Instead.”
Resear ch has shown these edu -
cational materials help par ents lear n 
effective, nonviolent ways to r elate to 
childr en. These materials ar e made 
available in both English and Spanish. 
The V erizon Foundation grant also 
provides CICC staf f with fr ee pr ofes-
sional training, including the opportu -
nity to attend a ﬁve-day workshop that 
prepares them to train others in par ent-
ing skills. Once the training is complete 
staff members ar e certiﬁed to deliver 
such skill-building pr ograms as CICC’ s Effective Black Par enting,  
Los Niños Bien Educados (W ell 
Behaved Childr en) and Conﬁdent 
Parenting. 
TREATMENT THROUGH 
TECHNO LOGY
Notiﬁed of an emer gency situation, 
but stuck in New Y ork City trafﬁc, Dr . 
Desmond Jor dan doesn’ t hesitate. The 
anesthesiologist takes a small tablet 
computer out of his bag and accesses 
a patient’ s record in r eal time.
He’s using a Mobile Medical 
Monitor called “m3” that pr ovides 
remote access and puts critical medi -
cal data in the palm of Jor dan’s hand 
anywher e, anytime. The small tablet 
computer links to the entir e hospital 
database and pr ovides the latest vital 
statistics fr om bedside monitors, deliv -
ering a compr ehensive and up-to-the-
minute view of the patient’ s health.
Jordan is among a select gr oup 
of physicians using m3, thanks to 
a collaboration between New Y ork 
Presbyterian Hospital and V erizon, 
with funding in part fr om the V erizon 
Foundation.
The Mobile Medical Monitor 
ensur es that clinicians have the cor -
rect information at the right time to 
*  Includes $10.2 million of matching gifts to support r elief ef forts in Southeast Asia and the U.S. Gulf Region. 
**  Includes $5. 1 million in employee donations to support r elief ef forts in Southeast Asia and the U.S. Gulf Region. 
***  Includes $400,000 in dir ect cash grants to support r elief ef forts in Southeast Asia and the U.S. Gulf Region.LIVIN G OUR VALUES
48 prescribe the best car e possible for 
each patient. Using m3, a clinician can 
also generate a car e plan automati -
cally comparing the patient with similar 
patients in the data base, thus of fering 
best-car e options and an opportunity 
for swifter r ecovery . Looking ahead, 
the m3 application will be r olled out on 
a wider scale with continued support 
from V erizon.
COMMUNITY CO MMITMENT 
The most ef fective r esour ce we have 
for carrying out our commitment to 
communities is our employees. The 
foundation’ s Verizon V olunteers pr o-
gram encourages employee volun -
teerism and charitable giving thr ough 
a program that matches employee 
donations of time and dollars with 
corporate contributions. As employees 
develop skills in their charitable work, 
our company builds bonds in our com -
munities and leadership talent within 
our workfor ce. V erizon V olunteers is 
one of the lar gest pr ograms of its kind 
in the country because our employees 
are passionate about sharing their 
technical skills and expertise in service 
to their communities. 
HOURS DONATED TO 
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 
BY EMPLOYEES
2005 565,000
2004 528,000
In 2005, employees volunteer ed 
565,000 hours in their communities 
and employees and the foundation 
provided $35.6 million to charitable 
and nonpr oﬁt or ganizations thr ough 
the foundation’ s employee volunteer -
ism pr ograms. The ways in which our 
employees contribute ar e as unique as 
our employees themselves. Her e are 
some examples: 
George Guthrie. A Verizon systems 
technician in Beltsville, Md., Geor ge 
Guthrie has spent about 5,000 hours 
volunteering in the last 1 1 years; that’ s 
more than nine hours a week. 
While he has spent many of 
those hours raising money for such 
organizations as the American 
Cancer Society and the Association for Retar ded Citizens, most of 
Guthrie’ s fundraising ef forts ar e 
dedicated to the Special Olympics. 
Guthrie said it is particularly 
important to raise money for the 
Special Olympics because contribu -
tions must cover all costs—trans -
portation, food, housing and admin -
istration. Ther e are no r egistration 
fees for the participating athletes. 
Co-workers who have joined 
Guthrie in his fundraising activities 
say his ener gy and enthusiasm have 
a “domino ef fect” on them. In 2005, 
Guthrie and other V erizon V olunteers 
raised mor e than $13,000 for the 
Special Olympics. 
“I get so emotional seeing the ath -
letes compete despite their disabilities. 
Their feelings ar e so genuine,” Guthrie 
said. “Because I see the dir ect impact 
I’m able to have on them, ther e’s im-
mediate gratiﬁcation.” 
The satisfaction he gets fr om his 
job and the support V erizon pr ovides 
for his volunteer activities cr eate an 
ideal situation, Guthrie said.
Rodney Johnson and Monique 
Gilliam. When V erizon employees 
Rodney Johnson and Monique Gilliam 
decided to become r eading coaches 
about ﬁve years ago, all they wanted 
to do was make a positive dif ference in 
a child’ s life. They had no idea r eading 
with a student for 35 minutes a week 
could actually impr ove literacy levels 
an average of 35 per cent and, in some 
cases, as much as 450 per cent.
Rodney and Monique became 
involved four years ago when V erizon 
recruited a small team of Kentucky-
based employees to work with the 
Partnership for Successful Schools. 
These V erizon volunteers would 
serve as the drivers behind a pilot 
program for Arlington, Ky ., elemen -
tary schools’ at-risk students in 
kinder garten thr ough thir d grade.
Since the pr ogram’ s inception, the 
One T o One: Practicing Reading With 
Students pr ogram has expanded to 
an additional 1 1 schools thr oughout 
the state, with mor e than 1 3 other 
corporations joining the initiative. The 
program’ s success has paved the way 
for the launch of a national literacy 
program in 2006.ROAD TO INDEPENDENCE PAVED 
WITH SELF-SUFFICIENCY 
Domestic violence has a profound 
effect on a woman’ s physical 
and mental well-being and work 
performance.  Economic self-
sufﬁcienc y is critical for sur vivors 
of domestic violence and can often 
mean the difference between 
avoiding future abuse or becoming 
trapped in the c ycle of violence.  
The YWCA of Greater Lawrence,  
Mass., offers women esca ping 
abusive situa tions a safe and 
supportive ha ven in Fina House.  The 
24-unit shelter helps these women 
develop job skills by offering a 
series of computer and technolog y 
workshops.  With a $20,000 grant 
from the Verizon Founda tion, 
residents also receive parenting 
support and learn such life skills 
as ho w to balance a checkbook 
and ho w to budget,  as well as good 
health and wellness practices.  
By supporting the YWCA’s Fina House 
program for self-sufﬁcienc y, and 
others like it,  the Verizon Founda tion 
is changing women’ s lives; helping 
women to raise their children in 
homes free of violence to break 
the pa ttern tha t can lead to future 
genera tions of abusers and victims.  VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
49120,000 dictionaries to thir d to ﬁfth 
graders acr oss the United States, as 
well as to libraries, after -school pr o-
grams and shelters.
Current federal policy places a 
strong emphasis on r eading and math, 
so any r esour ce that assists students 
in excelling in r eading is welcomed in 
schools and homes. And with school 
budgets being r educed and the num -
ber of low-income families rising, many 
childr en ar e without a dictionary in their 
homes and classr ooms. 
For mor e information about this 
program and the T elecomPioneers, 
please visit  
http://www .verizonpioneers.or g.
RESPONDING TO DISASTERS 
Verizon employees and the foundation 
responded swiftly and gener ously 
during the series of natural disasters 
that occurr ed ar ound the globe in 2004 
and 2005, beginning with the tsunami 
in Southeast Asia, Hurricanes Katrina 
and Rita in the Gulf Coast states and continuing thr ough the South Asia 
earthquake and Hurricane Stan in 
Central America.
Employee contributions in the 
aftermath of these tragic events 
totaled mor e than $15.7 million 
when combined with matching 
funds and dir ect cash grants fr om 
the V erizon Foundation Disaster 
Relief Incentive Pr ogram.
Among the r elief agencies that 
these donations supported wer e the 
American Red Cr oss, CARE, UNICEF , 
Mercy Corps, Save the Childr en, the 
Salvation Army and the NAACP . 
Besides raising funds for r elief 
agencies, V erizon’ s response also 
included of fering services, equipment, 
facilities and, at times, personnel.
Please r eview the special Hurricane 
Katrina support section on the next 
page to lear n how V erizon and our 
employees ar e helping the Gulf Coast 
region to r ebuild.
For mor e information about the 
Verizon Foundation, please visit http://
www .verizon.com/foundation. 
11% Other
12% T echnology
10% W orkfor ce Development
20% V olunteerism 14% Disaster Relief18% Literacy7% Scholarships6% Operating Expenses 2% Domestic V iolence A wareness2005 FOUND ATION KEY CONTRI BUTIONS
Literacy  $13,600,000
Domestic V iolence A wareness  1,400,000
Disaster Relief  10,500,000
Technology  8.900,000
Scholarship  5,700,000
Volunteerism/Employee Contribution  15,100,000
Workfor ce Development  7,200,000
Other  8,000,000
Operating Expenses  4,400,000
Total $74,800,000
All dollar ﬁgur es ar e rounded to the near est hundr ed thousandth.
Other r epresents: Arts and Cultur e, Beneﬁts and  
Events, Envir onment, and Health and Human ServicesRodney and Monique ar e still r ead-
ing coaches today , and they say the 
real beneﬁt of volunteering with One 
To One comes fr om watching a child 
develop a better sense of self.
“Just seeing the students’ eyes 
light up when you walk in the r oom lets 
you know you ar e making a r eal dif fer-
ence in their lives,” Johnson said. “It’ s 
not just about incr easing literacy rates, 
it’s about impr oving lives.”
 Alice H. Davis, pr oject manager—
One T o One, said, “The foundation’ s 
ﬁnancial support pr ovided the body of 
the pr ogram; the V erizon employees, 
like Rodney and Monique, ar e its soul.”
PIONEERING KNO WLEDGE
Childr en in 300 schools acr oss the 
country ar e discovering a world of 
knowledge fr om A to Z, thanks to the 
Verizon T elecomPioneers.
Made up of 130,000 active and 
retired employees in 17 chapters, 
the T elecomPioneers combined their 
resour ces and enthusiasm to distribute Help in Houston 
When Cheryl Hyams was 
evacuated fr om New 
Orleans to Houston, she 
was separated fr om loved 
ones. But with Eli Bailin’ s 
help at a V erizon Wir eless 
Emergency Calling Center at 
the Astrodome, she was able 
to reach r elatives for the ﬁrst 
time in ﬁve days and discover 
her family was alive and well. Photo courtesy NO AA
LIVIN G OUR VALUES
50VOLUNTEERIS M AND 
DONATIONS
• Through V erizon’ s 2-to- 1 
 matching gift pr ogram, our 
employees raised a total of mor e 
than $10.6 million in individual 
and corporate gifts to the Ameri -
can Red Cr oss, the Salvation 
Army and the NAACP—the most 
ever raised by V erizon for a natu -
ral disaster .
TO SEE VERIZON’S VALUES IN 
ACTION WE NEED ONLY LOOK AT 
HOW OUR EMPLOYEES RESPONDED 
IN THE AFTERMATH OF HURRICANE 
KATRINA, WHICH STRUCK THE GULF 
COAST IN AUGUST 2005. Verizon’ s response to Hurricane Katrina is a model of our appr oach to 
living our values and acting as a r esponsible corporate citizen.
• Some 12,000 V erizon and 
Verizon Wir eless employees set 
up and staf fed 24 call centers 
to support the “Shelter fr om the 
Storm” national telethon, which 
raised mor e than $30 million.
• Verizon Wir eless employees 
held clothing drives and of fered 
other assistance to their fellow 
employees af fected in the r egion.SERVICE RESTORA TION
• Verizon Wir eless worked 
tirelessly to r estor e network 
service in the r egion, bringing 
in engineers and technicians 
from ar ound the country . Within 
about two weeks of the hur -
ricane, we r estor ed service for 
more than 95 per cent of our 
geographic coverage in the ar ea. 
• Verizon T elecom deployed 
200 technicians and supervi -
sors to help the local tele -
communications pr ovider , 
BellSouth, r estor e service. EMERGENCY RE LIEF
VERIZON WIRELESS
• Provided mor e than 10,000 
wireless devices, including 
phones and PC car ds equipped 
with EV -DO high-speed data 
service, as well as fr ee wir eless 
service, to key or ganizations 
involved in disaster r elief and r e-
covery ef forts, including medical, 
transportation construction and 
law enfor cement agencies. Many 
of these devices wer e placed in 
the hands of evacuees to help 
them r econnect with family and 
friends via phone calls and online. 
LIVIN G OUR VALUES
50Katrina Convoy 
Verizon trucks fr om upstate 
New Y ork and Massachusetts 
formed a caravan along the 
highway near Harrisburg, 
Pa., on their way down to 
Louisiana and Mississippi. Answering the Call
Celina Headlee of Huntington 
Beach, Calif., was 1,000 miles 
away fr om New Orleans, but she 
was still able to help by answering 
phones at the Shelter fr om the 
Storm concert and telethon, which 
Verizon helped to sponsor . 
• Established calling centers at 
locations wher e large numbers 
of evacuees wer e located and 
provided fr ee phone service. 
All Verizon Wir eless locations in 
the ar ea pr ovided fr ee battery-
rechar ging stations, technical 
support and other services.
• Verizon Wir eless custom -
ers gener ously donated nearly 
$55,000 to the “TXT 2HELP” pro-
gram, enabling customers to use 
text messaging to donate money 
to the American Red Cr oss. EMERGENCY RE LIEF  
VERIZON TELECOM
• Established communications 
systems for emer gency facilities, 
such as an evacuee center at Otis 
Air For ce Base in Massachusetts, 
as well as sites in Pennsylvania 
and W est V irginia.
• Distributed 20,000 pr epaid 
calling car ds with a value of 
$150,000.
• Deployed pay-phone trailers 
and phone banks for use by 
evacuees acr oss 17 states and 
provided mor e than 27,000 fr ee 
all-distance calls at r elief centers 
and evacuee shelters.• Donated $1 for every DSL, 
FiOS and DIRECTV® sale made 
from Sept. 5 – 19 to buy mor e 
than 315,000 bottles of drinking 
water for use by FEMA in stricken 
areas.
• Re-engineer ed our 4 11 
Directory Assistance service 
to expedite caller access to 
relief agency numbers stor ed 
in a special database.
VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005
51Tower of Power
Verizon set up mobile 
communications centers 
throughout the Gulf Coast ar ea 
to help people get in touch 
with their families and friends.Cover
Prabir Das
Softwar e Engineer
Paul Sents
Customer Zone T echnician II
Jerry Sheehan
Indirect Sales District Manager—  
Verizon Wir eless
Yunfei Hoa
Senior Sales Engineer
Inside Fr ont Cover
Melissa Her nandez and Dar ell Bush
Field T echnicians
Page 2
Ivan Seidenber g
Chairman and CEO
Page 4
Maur een Br eault
Field T echnician
Page 7
Arthur Har dman
System Engineer
Page 12
John Chandler (standing) and  
Tom Donahue
System Engineers
Page 15
Paul Banco (for eground) and  
Russell Gor gen
System EngineersPage 20
Antawn Barb
Fiber Network Field T echnician
Page 24
Denise Hill
IT Manager
Page 27
Cheryl Mongell (left)
Vice Pr esident Region Operations,  
New England and 
Tim Zaniboni 
Splice Service T echnician 
Page 28
Martha Mejia-Pr osper
Repr esentative
Page 29
James Mays
Facilities T echnician
Page 35
Rick Montey
Local Manager—FiOS Operations
Page 39
Paul Belar d (for eground) and Jon Chestnut
Specialists, Real Estate Operations and
Tom Donnelly (backgr ound)
Supervisor , Real Estate Operations
Page 46
Lisa Thomas
Senior Staf f Consultant
Page 51
Celina Headlee
OperatorGreat employees make a gr eat company . Following is a list of the employees whose 
photos appear in this r eport. These employees r epresent the mor e than 250,000 
Verizon employees who put our customers ﬁrst and live our values every day . LIVIN G OUR VALUES
52
About  this Report
This r eport includes information on V erizon’ s economic, envir onmental and social per -
formance for the period 2003 thr ough 2005. 
The scope of the report covers all of Verizon’ s wireline, wireless and international opera -
tions. All the data r elate to V erizon’ s U.S.—  based operations unless otherwise noted. 
Since the MCI acquisition closed in early 2006, MCI information is not included in any 
of the metrics unless otherwise noted.
In addition to this printed r eport, we have a corporate r esponsibility W eb site: http://
www .verizon.com/r esponsibility , wher e you can download an electr onic copy of this 
report and lear n mor e about our corporate r esponsibility strategy and initiatives. Please 
visit our W eb site periodically to lear n mor e about our corporate r esponsibility strategy 
and initiatives and to e-mail your comments and suggestions.
About  the Paper  Used  for this Report
This r eport is printed on Mohawk Options, 100 per cent PC paper . This paper contains 100 per cent 
post-consumer r ecycled ﬁber and is manufactur ed with wind-generated electricity . It is manufactur ed 
in accor dance with a For est Stewar dship Council pilot pr ogram that certiﬁes pr oducts made with high 
percentages of post-consumer r eclaimed materials. The envir onmental beneﬁts of using Mohawk 
Options PC ar e outlined in the chart below . 
45.60
trees not cut down
131.67 LBS.
waterbor ne waste not cr eated
19,369.74 GA LS.
water/wastewater ﬂow saved
2,055.06 LBS.
solid waste not generated
4,016.34 LBS.
atmospheric emissions eliminated
26,248,596.36 B TUS
energy not consumed
567.66 LBS.
air emissions (CO2, SO2 and NOx) not generated 
IN OTHER WORDS,  THIS A MOUNT O F WIND ENERGY IS E QUIVALENT TO:
planting 38.43 tr ees
or
Not traveling 633.33 miles in an average automobileverizon.com/responsibility
© 2006 V erizon. All Rights Reserved.