CR’04
Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2004Making ConnectionsVerizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2004
A Dow 30 company, Verizon Communications Inc.
(NYSE:VZ) is one of the world’s leading providers of communications services. With a diverse 
work force of more than 208,000, Verizon has four business units: (1) Domestic Telecom 
serves customers based in 29 states with wireline telecommunications services, including 
broadband, nationwide long-distance and other services; (2) Verizon Wireless owns and 
operates the nation’s most reliable wireless network, serving 42.1 million voice and data 
customers across the United States; (3) Information Services operates directory publishing 
businesses and provides electronic commerce services; and (4) International includes 
wireline and wireless operations and investments, primarily in the Americas and Europe.…Improving Lives“Look Ma, no wires”!
Wi-Fi enabled devices, using signals very 
much like those in our cordless phones, are 
designed to transmit data at very high speeds.
Verizon Wi-Fi receives a signal from a device 
like a laptop and connects without wires to 
high-speed phone lines using base stations 
called, access points. Using the wireless signals, 
Wi-Fi connects to these access points, which 
then connect to high-speed phone lines. The 
high-speed lines connect back into our data 
network and voila, the Internet is in your hands 
whenever a Wi-Fi “HotSpot” is available.2003 Operating Revenues $67.8 billion
2003 Net Income, Before Special Items $7.3 billion
Projected 2004 Capital Expenditures ~$13 billion
Shareowners 2.7 million
Fortune 500 Rank  12th
Employees 208,240  
(103,000 union-represented)
U.S. Markets Served with Wireline Assets Two-thirds of top 100 
States with Wireline Presence 29+D.C.+Puerto Rico
Households in Wireline Markets 27 million
U.S. Access Lines 53.7 million
DSL Lines in Service 3.3 million
U.S. Markets Served with Wireless Assets 97 of top 100
States with Wireless Presence 49+D.C.+Puerto Rico
U.S. Wireless Customers 42.1 million
Nations with Verizon Presence 22
SuperPages.com 12 million unique visitors per monthFinancial Statistics
Operating Statistics
(as of 9/30/04)
Company proﬁle statistics are updated quarterly at http://newscenter.verizon.com/kit/vcorp/factsheet.vtml.
To review detailed information on our ﬁnancial performance, please visit http://investor.verizon.com.CR’04
2003 Operating Revenues $67.8 billion
2003 Net Income, Before Special Items $7.3 billion
Projected 2004 Capital Expenditures ~$13 billion
Shareowners 2.7 million
Fortune 500 Rank  12th
Employees 208,240 
(103,000 union-represented)
U.S. Markets Served with Wireline Assets Two-thirds of top 100 
States with Wireline Presence 29+D.C.+Puerto Rico
Households in Wireline Markets 27 million
U.S. Access Lines 53.7 million
DSL Lines in Service 3.3 million
U.S. Markets Served with Wireless Assets 97 of top 100
States with Wireless Presence 49+D.C.+Puerto Rico
U.S. Wireless Customers 42.1 million
Nations with Verizon Presence 22
SuperPages.com 12 million unique visitors per monthMaking Connections …Improving Communities
Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2004CR P1Verizon 
Company Proﬁ  le  ..................................................... Inside Front Cover
Message from Verizon’s Chairman and CEO  ..................................... 2 
Ethics and Governance  .................................................................... 4
Service and Innovation  .................................................................... 8
Empowering Employees  ................................................................. 18
Promoting Community Growth  ....................................................... 26
Protecting the Environment  ............................................................ 32
Partnering with Communities  ......................................................... 38Making Connections …Improving CommunitiesVerizon
Making Connections…
CR P2
By just about any measure, Verizon is one of the 
leading companies in the world. It’s safe to say 
that more than 100 million people connect using 
a Verizon network every day, whether at home, 
at work or on the go.Message from Verizon’s Chairman and CEO 
“Being responsible members of our communities makes us better at what we do.   environmental stewardship and corporate 
philanthropy. And we have looked ahead 
to see how broadband communications 
will transform health care, education, 
commerce, work patterns — indeed, the 
whole fabric of society — in ways  we 
think will rival in importance the impact 
of the Gutenberg printing press.
This report reviews our accomplishments 
and highlights new challenges and 
opportunities to improve our customers’ 
lives in the six areas that make up Verizon’s 
approach to corporate responsibility:
• Ethics and Governance
• Service and Innovation
• Empowering Employees 
• Promoting Community Growth
• Protecting the Environment
• Partnering with Communities
Our goal is not only to report our progress on 
a regular basis but also to initiate a dialogue, 
within Verizon and with our communities, 
about who we are, what we believe and 
where we’re going. BY JUST ABOUT ANY MEASURE,  
Verizon is one of the leading companies 
in the world. We employ more than 
208,000 people, invest upwards of 
$13 billion a year in technology, answer 
to 2.7 million shareowners and serve 
millions of customers in communities all 
over America and the world. It’s safe to 
say that more than 100 million people 
connect using a Verizon network every day, 
whether at home, at work or on the go.
Being a leader gives us an enormous 
opportunity — and responsibility — to have a 
positive impact on our communities.
We believe deeply in the power of 
communications to change people’s lives 
for the better. We are committed to bringing 
the benefits of our technology to as many 
places as we can, in a way that respects 
the rich diversity of our customers. But 
we also recognize that the expectations 
for being a responsible corporation are 
increasing. Stakeholders — from customers 
and investors to society at large — want 
to know that large corporations are 
accountable for their actions and transparent 
in reporting the economic, environmental 
and social impacts of their operations.  
This Corporate Responsibility Report  
demonstrates our commitment to 
accountability and transparency.
We have examined the many ways Verizon 
affects the world in which we operate. We 
have looked at how we stack up against 
best practices in such areas as corporate 
governance, human resource policies, We expect to grow and evolve in all these 
areas as our environment changes. But I am 
proud of the tremendous impact our people 
and our company have in our communities 
even today. We are building on a legacy 
of service that goes back more than a 
century. Our employees are continuing that 
commitment, serving millions of customers 
every day on the job and contributing their 
own time to the well-being of communities all 
over America and the world. Our investment 
in technology is helping individuals, 
businesses and entire communities connect, 
and we are creating new markets that will 
be catalysts for future growth and innovation 
across the economy. 
Being responsible members of our communi -
ties makes us better at what we do. And as 
we succeed, we will produce not only a good 
return for shareowners and a good living for 
our employees, but also something of lasting 
value for society.
Ivan Seidenberg, Chairman and CEO
CR P3…Improving Lives
Being a leader gives us an 
enormous opportunity — and 
responsibility — to have a positive 
impact on our communities.
  
And as we succeed, we will produce not only a good return for shareowners and a good 
living for our employees, but also something of lasting value for society .”
Ivan Seidenberg, Chairman and CEO“  Verizon is in business to serve customers and 
deliver something of value to society.   
Doing that, we believe, is the best way to create 
long-term value for shareowners.”    Ivan Seidenberg, Chairman and CEOVerizon
Making Connections…
CR P4
Ethics and GovernanceCR P5…Improving Lives
Our goal is to operate our 
business with the highest level 
of integrity and accountability… 
building on the trust we have 
earned over the years.
Ethical Business Practices
Verizon was one of the first large 
employers to create an ethics office 
headed by an executive responsible for 
compliance. Our comprehensive Code 
of Business Conduct has become a 
model for other companies. We train 
and certify our employees on their 
understanding of the code, and the 
code is available online for reference. 
Because the code cannot address 
every situation that might arise, we 
also operate a confidential VZ Ethics 
Line (800 856-1885 or 800 968-4586 
TTY and 800 488-7900 for Verizon 
Wireless) that employees, suppliers 
and the public can call 24 hours a day, 
seven days a week, to ask questions, 
seek clarification or report alleged 
misconduct or violations of our code. Our standards of conduct extend to our 
suppliers as well. We have published 
guidelines, called Building Mutual 
Trust, to ensure that all our suppliers 
understand Verizon’s expectations 
and standards for ethical business 
conduct. The guidelines cover such 
areas as health and safety, conflicts of 
interest, customer privacy, environmental 
protection and reporting misconduct. 
Verizon also works with other 
corporations to increase the focus on 
and commitment to ethical business 
practices. Our company was one of 
the founding members and is currently 
a sponsoring partner of the Ethics 
Officer Association (http://www.eoa.
org), which now has more than 950 
corporate members around the globe. VERIZON’S CORE VALUES  of integrity 
and respect are a fundamental part of our 
culture, in how we interact not only with 
one another but also with customers, 
investors and the public at large.  
With 2.7 million shareowners, we are one 
of the largest publicly-traded companies 
in the world. So we understand that our 
good intentions must be reinforced with 
comprehensive systems and controls that 
ensure the transparency of our financial 
reporting and hold us accountable to the 
expectations of our stakeholders.  
Our goal is to operate our business 
with the highest level of integrity and 
accountability and to continue to build on 
the trust we have earned over the years.
Board Governance
Our board of directors is charged 
with the general oversight of Verizon’s 
officers and management to ensure 
that they perform in the long-term 
best interests of our shareholders. 
Verizon has a strong, active and 
independent board composed of 
directors with the professional experience 
and expertise to oversee as well as 
challenge management. The board’s 
role and guiding principles — including 
policies regarding board independence, 
business relationships and committee 
structures — are summarized in our 
Corporate Governance Guidelines. CR P6Verizon
Making Connections…
Verizon has also initiated a dialogue on 
best practices in business ethics through 
our sponsorship of the Verizon Visiting 
Professorship in Business Ethics and 
Information Technology at the Bentley 
College Center for Business Ethics in 
Waltham, Massachusetts (http://ecampus.
bentley.edu/dept/cbe/events/lecture_
verizon.html). We sponsor an annual 
weeklong conference at the center, at 
which undergraduate and graduate 
students and representatives from 
corporations and other organizations 
focus on how businesses can 
develop strong ethical cultures. 
Financial Reporting
Investors can be confident that our 
financial results accurately and fairly 
present the financial condition of the 
company. Verizon follows all generally 
accepted accounting principles, 
and we adhere to a rigorous internal 
process that involves a comprehensive 
system of checks and balances. 
For additional details on Verizon’s 
governance processes, please visit  
our Investor Relations website at  
http://www.investor.verizon.com.
we are one of the largest publicly-traded companies      in the world.With 2.7  million 
shareowners,  Verizon was one of the first large 
employers to create an ethics 
office headed by an executive 
responsible for compliance. 
Our comprehensive Code of 
Business Conduct has become 
a model for other companies. CR P7…Improving Lives
we are one of the largest publicly-traded companies      in the world.With 2.7  million 
shareowners, Verizon follows 
all generally 
accepted 
accounting 
principles, and 
we adhere 
to a rigorous 
internal process 
that involves a 
comprehensive 
system of checks 
and balances.CR P7…Improving Lives
CR CR P7…Improving LivesVerizon
Making Connections…
CR P8
“ We believe we have a central role to play  
in energizing the consumer marketplace, 
stimulating innovation and improving the  
quality of life for our customers.   
Our role is to deliver the transformational  
power of high-speed network connectivity to 
customers, as well as products and services 
that tap the intelligence of our network.”  
 Ivan Seidenberg, Chairman and CEOService and InnovationCR P9…Improving Lives
Verizon touches more customers 
in a day than many companies do 
in a year. We serve more than 42 
million wireless customers, 27 million 
wireline households, 2.4 million 
business customers and thousands 
of schools, libraries, universities 
and nonprofits in markets all over 
the United States and the world. 
But technology and competition are 
continually elevating the bar, giving customers more choices and creating 
higher expectations that challenge 
us to find better, more innovative 
ways to deliver top-quality service 
and to delight our customers.  
We focus on the fundamentals of 
customer satisfaction: a quality network, 
reliable service, a great value and a 
partner customers can trust. And we are 
constantly learning from our customers 
and evolving to serve them better. We are investing more than any other 
U.S. company to bring the benefits 
of broadband to individuals. We are 
developing innovative products that 
help customers use the power of our 
networks to improve their lives. And 
we are reaching out to make advanced 
communications technology more 
accessible to all segments of our diverse 
customer population.CR P10Verizon
Making Connections…
Customer Satisfaction
Wireline Services
We track customer perception of our 
service, using an independent market 
research firm to conduct monthly surveys 
of 40,000 customers who have recently 
interacted with our wireline business. Our 
composite score on overall customer 
satisfaction has averaged in the range of 
90 percent to 92 percent or better for each 
of the past three years.  
Among the largest group of customers 
surveyed — consumers who recently 
purchased a new line or service from 
Verizon — about 95 percent currently 
respond that they are “satisfied or better.” 
A key reason for our high level of customer 
satisfaction is the security and reliability 
of our network. Our wireline business 
carries more than 1.5 billion telephone calls 
and trillions of bits of data on an average 
business day. Despite that staggering 
volume, our network provides uninterrupted 
service 99.99 percent of the time.
Even with these strong service results, 
we know customers demand more. While 
customer perception of our performance 
has improved (see American Customer 
Satisfaction Index results on page 11), we 
are not satisfied with our service levels. 
We have taken specific steps to improve 
service, including the following:
•  Investing about $6.8 billion in 2003 and 
again in 2004 to deploy some of the most 
advanced, innovative and dependable 
technology available to maintain and enhance the reliability of our network. 
Our investment includes deployment of 
fiber-to-the-premises (FTTP) technology 
that enables us to replace copper cable 
to customers’ homes and businesses 
with more reliable fiber-optic cable.  
•  Providing our employees with ongoing 
training in everything from customer 
service delivery to advanced technology. 
In 2003 alone, we spent more than 
$40 million to provide technicians and 
customer service representatives with 
some 3.3 million hours of training.
•  Restructuring our business to integrate 
installation, repair and network operations 
into a single organization focused on 
customer service.
Wireless Services
Verizon Wireless operates the nation’s 
most reliable wireless network and has 
invested more than $5 billion annually 
to maintain its network nationwide and 
expand network capabilities for services 
such as broadband. The company’s “most 
reliable network” claim is based on studies 
completed by company and independent 
testers, who conduct more than 300,000 
trial calls monthly on the Verizon Wireless 
network and other wireless carriers’ networks while traveling more than 
100,000 miles in specially-equipped 
company test vehicles. 
Emergency Preparedness
Network reliability, security and 
emergency preparedness are core 
considerations that guide Verizon’s 
network design, engineering, construction 
and maintenance programs. 
We maintain the necessary backup 
equipment and technology to keep our 
networks humming during the worst 
disasters. And every Verizon business 
unit is required to have emergency 
operation plans that cover conditions 
ranging from local emergencies to 
widespread disasters. These plans are 
developed with the National Coordinating 
Center for Telecommunications, which 
is the point of contact for national 
security and emergency preparedness 
for the federal government.
Our company took great pride in helping 
America get back on its feet after 9/11 by 
restoring the New York Stock Exchange, 
one of the most sophisticated networks 
in the world, within a week. In the post-
9/11 world, secure and dependable CR P11…Improving Lives
Verizon Ranks High on
American Customer 
Satisfaction Index  
The American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) released in June 2004 
showed Verizon’s wireline operation moving up a notch into a second-
place tie among telecommunications providers and ahead of the cable 
industry as a whole. 
Our score of 73 out of 100 indicates that we continue to provide high-
quality service and is two points higher than the industry average of 71. 
Verizon Wireless, which had more than 40 million customers at the time, 
topped the rankings of all U.S. wireless carriers in the ﬁ  rst-ever ACSI 
report on the wireless industry.communication services are even 
more critical from both a customer and 
national security standpoint. We have 
demonstrated again and again our ability to 
keep customers connected during times of 
natural or manmade crisis, especially first 
responders and government authorities. 
In 2004, as Hurricanes Charley, Frances, 
Ivan and Jeanne devastated Florida and 
the Gulf Coast, we deployed technicians 
and equipment from across the country to 
ensure continued operation of our wireline 
and wireless networks for disaster recovery 
officials and thousands of residents. 
We donated more than 1,000 wireless 
phones and other equipment to federal, 
state and local emergency responders 
and set up Verizon Wireless Emergency 
Communications Centers to enable victims 
with no phone service to make free calls 
to loved ones, insurance companies and 
disaster relief agencies. 
We also donated more than 1.5 million 
minutes of free wireless airtime to victims of 
the hurricanes. 
Whether they are connected to the power 
of our advanced wireline network or our 
advanced wireless network, customers can 
count on their calls going through, even 
during times of emergency. Nearly 1 million customers have told us that 
they prefer to talk to someone who can 
speak their language. So we do, whether 
the language is Mandarin, Cantonese, 
Korean, Spanish, Russian or Vietnamese.CR P12Verizon
Making Connections…
Serving Diverse Communities
Our marketing efforts reflect our diverse 
customers. Nearly 1 million customers have 
told us that they prefer to talk to someone 
who can speak their language. So we 
do. Whether the language is Mandarin, 
Cantonese, Korean, Spanish, Russian or 
Vietnamese, employees at our Multilingual 
Centers help customers across the 
country. Some 1,300 employees provide 
technical assistance and handle service, 
billing and repair requests in a customer’s 
preferred language. Approximately 800,000 
customers in New York and California 
receive their bills in Spanish, and we plan 
to take this service nationwide by year-end. Verizon also plays an active role in our 
diverse communities. We participate in 
festivals like Lunar New Year and celebrate 
Hispanic Heritage, Black History and Gay 
Pride months. We also interact in other 
ways, such as producing the award-
winning La Voz de La Plaza , a customer 
newsletter in Spanish that profiles notable 
Hispanics and provides readers with 
resources and ideas to help them succeed. 
Spanish-English Directories and Website 
Verizon is the nation’s leading publisher 
of Hispanic directories. This year we will 
publish 59 Spanish-English versions of our 
SuperPages directories and reach nearly 
10 million Hispanics — 30 percent of the 
Hispanic population in the United States. We also offer a Spanish-language version 
of SuperPages.com, our online directory 
service. SuperPages.com en Español 
(http://espanol.superpages.com) is the 
most comprehensive Spanish-language 
directory service available today. Users 
can search for people and businesses 
nationwide, access Spanish-language 
maps and driving instructions, and look 
up weather forecasts and other local 
information for more than 100 U.S. cities.
Protecting Customer Privacy
The privacy of customer information is of 
paramount concern for us. We were one 
of the first corporations to adopt privacy 
principles and create a chief privacy 
officer (CPO). The CPO is responsible for 
developing and ensuring compliance with 
our privacy principles, as well as ensuring 
compliance with new privacy laws and 
regulations and identifying emerging 
privacy trends.
Our privacy principles are based on 
four core premises: (1) customers must 
be provided with notice of how their 
information is being managed; 
(2) customers must be provided with a 
choice as to whether or not they want 
their information disclosed; (3) customers 
must be allowed access to information 
Verizon has collected about them to 
ensure the accuracy of that information; 
and (4) Verizon must undertake reasonable 
security measures to ensure that customer 
information is managed in a way that 
prevents unlawful access or disclosure.  CR P13…Improving Lives
Verizon has moved quickly to adapt our 
privacy protections to the Internet age. 
Our policies prohibit any employee, agent 
or contractor from knowingly using any 
form of spyware on the company’s behalf. 
We are one of the first major corporations 
to adopt stringent guidelines regarding the 
use of adware. These tiny programs use 
“pop-ups” on computer screens (which 
many people find intrusive) and can track information about consumers without their 
knowledge. The guidelines require that any 
offers we make to consumers to download 
material clearly state whether adware is 
included, that user instructions be clear 
and obvious, and that the instructions 
include steps to uninstall the software. 
These requirements apply to our agents, 
contractors and employees.  
Verizon offers customers information on 
installing spam filters, blocking pop-up 
ads and protecting family and personal information on Verizon Online’s Safety and 
Security page at http://broadbandbeat.
verizon.net/safety_security. 
Statements of Verizon’s privacy 
policies — including our Internet Privacy 
Policy, Privacy for Telephone Company 
Customers and Do Not Call Policy — can be 
found at http://www.verizon.com/privacy.  
From Worst to First
Two well-known surveys by VeriTest and 
J. D. Power and Associates ranked Verizon Online’s 
e-mail service dead last in 2002 — and deservedly 
so, according to Jeff Skinner, director of networking 
services. “Our e-mail was terrible,” he said. 
Problems plagued the service. Customers were 
inundated with spam, the service was frequently 
down and sometimes e-mail was not delivered for 
several hours. Not surprisingly, turnover of both 
DSL and dial-up customers was increasing. 
Today, outages are rare, all messages are 
deposited in customers’ mailboxes within 
ﬁ  ve minutes (the industry benchmark), 
and spam has been greatly reduced. 
The result? Verizon Online’s e-mail service ranked 
number one on both the VeriTest and 
J. D. Power and Associates scorecards for 2003. 
A team of 20 employees turned the e-mail system 
around. To “see” inside the complex Verizon 
Online e-mail system, the team built its own 
monitoring system, placing monitoring devices 
at more than 1,000 locations where customers’ 
telephone lines connect to Verizon Online’s 
network. The team called the system SEER, a 
tongue-in-cheek title meaning fortune teller. 
Technicians now receive a steady stream of data 
about the e-mail system’s performance and correct 
problems before customers feel the effects.CR P14Verizon
Making Connections…
We provide employees 
with ongoing training 
in everything from 
customer service delivery 
to advanced technology. Verizon has earned numerous honors 
for its commitment to improving the 
lives and advancing the rights of 
people with disabilities, including 
the Disability Rights Advocates’ 
prestigious 2004 Eagle Award and the 
American Association of People with 
Disabilities’ 2003 Justice for All Award. 
Verizon was recognized for its 
leadership in providing communications 
access, commitment to universal 
design product development and 
extraordinary contributions to the 
political and economic empowerment 
of children and adults with disabilities.Empowering People 
with DisabilitiesCR P15…Improving Lives
Making Ourselves Accessible
Approximately 5 million of our customers 
have disabilities that can prevent them 
from taking advantage of our services. 
To reach out to customers with special 
needs, Verizon operates two Centers for 
Customers with Disabilities, one on the 
East Coast in Marlboro, Massachusetts 
and a new center on the West Coast 
in Oxnard, California. At these centers, 
specially-trained service representatives 
work with customers to determine 
how our products and services can 
be adapted for their needs. 
Our solutions include amplified telephones, 
teletypewriters, exemptions from 
directory assistance charges, discounts 
for customers who use text telephones 
and phone bills in large print or Braille. 
Customers can call either center toll-free 
at 800 974-6006; this number also offers 
direct text telephone (TTY) access. 
Verizon publishes an online newsletter 
called Forward Access  that provides 
updates on technology for people 
with disabilities, government policies 
on accessibility, information on the 
use of special telephone equipment 
and links to helpful websites, such 
as that of the American Association 
for People with Disabilities. 
More information about Verizon’s portfolio 
of products and services for customers 
with disabilities is available at 
http://www.verizon.com/disabilities. 
Verizon Wireless recently introduced a new wireless phone — the 
LG VX4500 — that features the latest speech recognition 
technology. The phone offers the following features that make 
it more accessible to customers who are visually impaired:
•  Digit dialing — you say the number and the phone dials it for you.
•  Dial by name — you say a name and the 
phone dials the person’s number. 
•  Voice-mail indicator with speech — the phone 
tells you if you have a voice message. 
•  Caller ID with speech — the phone announces 
the name or number of the calling party. 
•  Vibrating ringers.
•  Raised surfaces on the Send and End keys and on the 
“5” key to make the phone easier to navigate.  
Additional features are planned for the near 
future. They include the following:
•  Audio readout of the battery level and signal strength. 
•  Audio readout of the top level of feature menus.  
For more information about the LG VX4500 phone, please visit http://
www.verizonwireless.com. Select About Us, and then Accessibility.Leading the Way on 
Wireless Phones for 
Customers with DisabilitiesCR P16Verizon
Making Connections…
Innovative Products
In addition to providing quality service, 
Verizon is introducing innovative 
products that enable customers to 
harness the power of new broadband 
communications technology.  
FiOSSM (FYE-ose)
In the summer of 2004, Verizon began 
rolling out our groundbreaking fiber-to-
the-premises (FTTP) network, with the 
first deployment in the Dallas suburb of 
Keller, Texas. FTTP technology uses fiber-
optics instead of copper wire as the direct 
connection to homes and businesses, 
delivering high-speed Internet access at 
speeds ranging up to 30 Mbps. Verizon 
FiOS — the new suite of services offered 
over this network — includes a broad array 
of voice and data applications. 
The advanced technology behind 
FiOS opens the high-speed lanes both 
downstream and upstream, creating 
a whole new level of usability for 
applications such as video chat and 
conferencing, digital movie downloads 
and interactive multiplayer games. The 
company plans a FiOS video offering 
to compete with cable TV in 2005. 
Additional deployments of FTTP are 
under way in California, Delaware, 
Florida, Maryland, Massachusetts, 
New York, Pennsylvania and Virginia, 
with plans to pass 1 million homes and 
businesses by the end of 2004. For 
more information regarding our FTTP 
plans and FiOS service, please visit 
http://newscenter.verizon.com/kit/fiber. VoiceWing
This year we unveiled VoiceWing, a voice-
over-Internet-protocol (VoIP) broadband 
phone service that is available to digital 
subscriber line (DSL) and cable-modem 
broadband users across America. For a 
low flat rate, VoiceWing allows consumers 
to make unlimited local and long-distance 
phone calls within the United States and 
certain territories. Because the service is Internet-based and 
not tied to any geographic calling area, 
customers can choose their area code 
from a list covering 168 area codes in 36 
states and the District of Columbia, making 
them accessible to friends and family via 
a local call. VoiceWing subscribers can 
make calls over any broadband Internet 
connection and can manage their calls 
from any computer with Internet access. 
VoiceWing is available to customers 
anywhere in the continental United States; 
it can be purchased at http://www.verizon.
com/voicewing or by calling 800 270-5369. 
The advanced technology 
behind FiOS opens the high-
speed lanes both downstream 
and upstream.
Fiber creates a whole new level 
of usability for applications such 
as video chat and conferencing, 
digital movie downloads and 
interactive multiplayer games.CR P17…Improving LivesVerizon
Making Connections…
CR P18
Empowering Employees
“ Our employees play a key role in Verizon’s 
transformation into the next-generation  
broadband company. We expect a lot from  
our employees, who are the face of Verizon  
to our millions of customers.”  
 Marc Reed, EVP-Corporate Human ResourcesCR P19…Improving Lives
“ To continue to attract and retain the  
high-performing employees we need to 
succeed, Verizon offers a positive work 
environment as well as competitive 
salaries and beneﬁts that provide great 
value to employees and their families.”  
 Marc Reed, EVP-Corporate Human Resources TO BE SUCCESSFUL,  Verizon 
depends on the skills, values and 
commitment of our employees. Every 
time they interact with customers, they 
embody the Verizon brand. They are our 
eyes and ears in the marketplace, our 
customers’ guides through the thicket of 
technology and the personification of our 
company’s values in their communities. 
We provide competitive wages 
and progressive health and benefit 
packages, invest millions of dollars in 
training and development and foster 
a work environment that stimulates 
learning and employee development 
and helps employees manage their 
personal and business lives. 
Compensation and Benefits
Verizon employees are eligible for 
salary and benefits that are among 
the best in corporate America. Our 
compensation philosophy is designed 
to attract and retain a high-quality work 
force and to reward employees for 
individual and corporate performance 
through base pay, merit increases, 
bonuses and long-range incentives. 
Our benefits package offers employees 
valuable health, welfare and disability 
benefits, and generous paid time off. 
Verizon and our predecessors have offered 
domestic partner benefits since 1996. 
The guiding principle of our domestic 
partner benefit program is to treat eligible 
domestic partners as much like spouses 
as possible within the relevant laws and 
regulations. Eligible domestic partners may participate in medical, dental and vision 
plans and in health care reimbursement 
accounts. Additionally, Verizon’s pension 
plans have been amended to allow 
the designation of a beneficiary in the 
event of death prior to retirement, 
making a survivor benefit available to 
an employee’s domestic partner.
Employee Development
To win in the marketplace, we need 
to attract top talent. We seek the best 
people (those with diverse experience, 
perspectives, knowledge and 
backgrounds) and continue to provide 
the training they need to develop new or 
stronger skills, advance in the company 
and achieve their goals, while contributing 
to Verizon’s success.Over the past three years, Verizon has 
invested more than $500 million in 
employee development. This investment 
represents approximately 12 million 
hours of company-provided training, as 
well as support for higher education in 
the form of payment for tuition and fees 
at accredited colleges and universities 
across the country. 
Verizon’s commitment to employee 
development includes an 
extensive network of educational 
partnerships with leading universities 
that offer special programs in 
telecommunications and traditional 
business and management fields. CR P20Verizon
Making Connections…
Our own online learning systems 
— NetLearn and InternetLearn — make 
training and development opportunities 
convenient and accessible to employees. 
These online resources offer more than 2,000  
courses that enable employees to acquire 
new skills or strengthen existing ones. 
In addition to the many programs that are 
available to all employees, we also offer 
specific educational programs for our 
associates. They include the following:
•  The Career Services Program, which 
offers out-of-hours classroom-based 
training, career and educational 
counseling, a lending library and onsite access to a trained advocate who 
can provide detailed information on 
educational opportunities within Verizon. 
•  The Next Step Program, a two-
year degree program delivered by a 
consortium of community colleges in 
New York and New England. 
•  The Corporate College Program, which 
offers both two- and four-year degree 
programs, with classes delivered at 
Verizon locations.
•  The Nova Southeastern University 
program, which offers both two- 
and four-year degrees in business 
delivered at Verizon locations. Finally, the company sponsors an 
educational loan program that provides 
all employees with ready access to the 
funding they need to educate their children. 
Work-Life Management
VZ-LIFE (Life Initiatives for Employees) is a 
comprehensive suite of solutions available 
online, over the phone or in person to help 
employees manage their work and personal 
lives and to provide support in times of 
personal and family crisis. On average, 
3,000 Verizon employees contact VZ-LIFE 
each month, and the VZ-LIFE website 
Supporting Verizon 
Reservists and Their Families
Under our Emergency Military Leave Policy, we pay the difference 
between employees’ base pay and their government base pay for up 
to 36 months from the time they are called to active duty. Reservists 
and their families also continue to receive medical, dental, vision, 
group life insurance and concession telephone services, and get credit 
toward their service and pension for the duration of their leave. 
Verizon’s support of military reservists earned the company the 
Employer Support of the Guard and Reserves 2003 “Homefront” 
Award. The award recognized Verizon for its leadership in supporting 
employees who are serving their country in the National Guard 
and Reserves and for providing for the families of these people 
while they are mobilized. Verizon was one of only four companies 
honored for its commitment to stand behind employees who 
leave their jobs, communities and families to defend America. 
We proudly support the several hundred 
Verizon employees currently serving our 
country in the active duty military, including 
Johnny Peña, Karl Conboy, Lerone 
Ault, John Sgro, and brothers John and 
Jeb Heaney (left), and George Riggins 
pictured with his son George (right).receives nearly 40,000 hits each month. 
The following is a partial list of programs 
available through VZ-LIFE:
•  An Employee Assistance Program 
to help employees resolve work, 
family and personal challenges.
•  Child care and elder care resources 
and referral services.
•  Wellness education and online 
health information.
•  Workplace and domestic violence 
education and prevention programs.
•  An adoption assistance program.
•  A variety of programs to assist 
with the costs of child care.
•  A wide range of flexible work 
arrangements, including flextime, 
emergency part-time status, job 
sharing and teleworking.
Diversity
Verizon firmly believes that embracing 
and cultivating diversity in our corporate 
culture is both the right business 
strategy and the right thing to do.
We are a recognized leader in work-
force diversity. Minority employees 
represent one-third of Verizon’s work 
force and hold more than 15 percent 
of senior management positions. 
Our definition of diversity includes the 
whole range of human differences: age, 
ethnicity, education, sexual orientation, 
work style, race, gender and more. 
CR P21…Improving Lives
Here is an example of 
how VZ-LIFE works:
An employee named “Nell” is caring for her husband, who is 
battling leukemia.
Nell also is the primary caregiver for her 88-year-old aunt, who 
is in good physical condition but is beginning to exhibit the 
symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease. Nell is concerned about her 
aunt living alone, but space in her own home is limited. 
Nell calls VZ-LIFE because she feels that the stress of her dual-
caregiver responsibilities is beginning to interfere with her work. 
The counselor connects her with an elder-care specialist, who 
arranges an in-home evaluation of her family’s needs. Nell 
agrees with the specialist’s recommendation for a home-care 
agency, and VZ-LIFE makes the arrangements. 
The counselor also directs Nell to the Mayo Clinic Health 
Information section on the VZ-LIFE website. There she ﬁ  nds 
information on her husband’s and her aunt’s conditions and an 
interactive program that shows her how to take better care of 
her own health during times of stress.
Nell and the VZ-LIFE counselor agree that she does not 
need to meet with a counselor at present, but she receives 
educational materials to support her in her difﬁ  cult role as a 
caregiver, as well as a list of “Care for the Caregiver” groups 
in her hometown. The 
counselor says she will 
stay in touch with Nell over 
the next six months to 
provide ongoing support.
Over time, we have made diversity 
an integral part of our business, 
from recruiting employees to 
work force development, supplier 
relationships, economic development, 
marketing and philanthropy.  
Creating an Inclusive Business Culture
We develop a diverse work force 
with the same discipline and sense 
of purpose that we apply to other 
critical business objectives.
Our executives are held accountable for 
the diversity within their organizations. 
They are given measurable goals 
and are compensated, in part, on 
the basis of their success in meeting 
those goals. We recognize the need 
to increase our diversity at all levels, 
especially in our senior leadership ranks. 
Our diversity councils develop and 
implement plans to make that happen. 
One way we ensure that all employees 
are prepared for career advancement is 
through our established mentoring and 
leadership development programs, such as 
the Verizon Development and Leadership 
Initiative (DLI). This program helps 
participants identify professional goals and network with Verizon executives, while 
helping the company identify and develop a 
diverse pool of high-potential candidates.
Employee Resource Groups
Our employee-run affinity groups bring 
individuals of common interests and 
backgrounds together while benefiting 
Verizon through their special insights and 
the relationships they have with people in 
their communities. With the corporation’s 
Employee Profile as of 9/30/2004 (By Gender)     
Female Male
Management 28,099 (42.38%) 38,205 (57.62%)
Associate 61,986 (45.51%) 74,208 (54.49%)
Total 90,085 (44.49%) 112,413 (55.51%)Employee Profile as of 9/30/2004 (Ethnic Diversity) 
American Indian Asian African American Hispanic White Total
Management 303 (0.46%) 5,698 (8.59%) 9,177 (13.84%) 4,359 (6.57%) 46,767 (70.53%) 66,304
Associate* 612 (0.45%) 3,985 (2.93%) 31,204 (22.91%) 10,895 (7.99%) 89,498 (65.71%) 136,194
Total 915 (0.45%) 9,683 (4.78%) 40,381 (19.94%) 15,254 (7.53%) 136,265 (67.29%) 202,498**
    
*    Associate ﬁ  gures include both union-represented and nonunion employees 
**  Includes employees from Verizon entities based in the continental United States and Hawaii only  CR P22Verizon
Making Connections…
Awards and Recognition
MAY 2004  Verizon Wireless 
Named 2004 Workplace Model of 
Excellence 
by Leading National Maternal and 
Child Health Coalition
The National Healthy Mothers, Healthy 
Babies Coalition, the nation’s leading 
maternal and child health coalition, 
selected Verizon Wireless as a 
Workplace Model of Excellence
APRIL 2004  Verizon Named One of 
Top Four Companies for Diversity in 
Magazine Survey
DiversityInc  ranked Verizon among the 
best for the fourth straight year. 
We were recognized for:
•  Supplier diversity
•  Recruitment and retention
•  Top employer for African American, 
Latino, Asian, Gay, Lesbian, 
Bisexual, and Transgender 
individualsVerizon Excellence Awards
The mission of the VEA program is to 
honor and reward Verizon employees 
for their extraordinary contributions and 
achievements in serving our customers, 
communities, shareowners and 
colleagues. In 2003, 3,800 individual 
and team nominations encompassing 
18,544 employees were submitted 
for VEAs. Altogether, 101 individuals 
and 142 teams (comprising 1,529 
employees) were selected by employee 
committees to receive awards.
During March — VEA Month — the 
extraordinary efforts of these winners are celebrated at events across Verizon, both 
within and outside the United States. 
Winners receive a cash award.
Heroes Award
Verizon employees have a tradition of 
meritorious service to customers and the 
public. There are numerous examples, 
such as the employee who stops on a 
dark, rainy highway to drag a passenger 
from an overturned car seconds before it 
bursts into flames or the employee out for 
a quiet family dinner at a local restaurant 
who draws on skill, training and instinct to 
save a choking child. 
CR P23…Improving Lives
support, Employee Resource Groups 
promote professional and personal 
growth through networking, mentoring, 
seminars and conferences. In turn, the 
groups support our multicultural marketing 
efforts and other diversity objectives by 
advising management in advertising, 
branding, strategic planning, recruitment, 
sourcing, employee development, external 
partnerships and diversity awareness. 
Currently, more than 12,000 employees 
are affiliated with the following Employee 
Resource Groups: 
•  Asian Pacific Employees for eXcellence 
•  Consortium of Information and Telecom-
munications Executives (African-Ameri-
can employees)
•  Disabilities Issues Awareness Leaders
•  Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender 
Employees
•  Hispanic Support Organization
•  National Jewish Cultural Resource Group
•  Native American People of Verizon
•  South-Asian Professionals Inspiring 
Cultural Enrichment
•  Veterans Advisory Board of Verizon
•  Women’s Association of Verizon 
Employees
Employee Rewards and Recognition
We have two prestigious awards that 
recognize exemplary employees: the 
Verizon Excellence Award (VEA) and the 
Verizon Heroes Award.“ When diversity is part of 
a company’s culture, as 
it is at Verizon, everyone 
benefits — customers, 
suppliers and employees.”
Ivan Seidenberg, Chairman and CEOCR P24Verizon
Making Connections…
The Heroes Award honors employees 
who demonstrate extraordinary courage, 
skill, judgment and resourcefulness 
in acts of heroism and unusual merit 
in service to the public. The award 
recognizes Verizon’s devotion to the 
ideal of public service, both as a provider 
of critical communication services and 
as a responsible corporate citizen. 
Franklin Williams, a ﬁ  eld technician in Brooklyn, New 
York, had just ﬁ  nished a repair job one day last March 
when he smelled smoke and saw a woman running 
from a nearby building and screaming for help.
Hearing the cries of people still in the building, Williams 
rushed over with his ladder, climbed to a second-
ﬂ  oor window and pried it open with a screwdriver. 
Black smoke poured out, but he heard no one. He 
pried open another window, and someone thrust an 
infant out to him. The mother was inside but could 
not climb through the small bathroom window. 
With the baby in his arms, Williams climbed up to a 
third window, pried it open and was met with choking 
smoke, ﬂ  ames and a group of panicked occupants. He climbed down the ladder and held it and the baby 
while coaching three adults and three children to safety. 
After the rescue, the ﬁ  re department arrived to 
battle the ﬁ  re. 
Williams then called his manager, James Christie, 
who wondered why he had been at his repair 
job for more than two hours. Williams simply 
said there had been a ﬁ  re in the area.
It was only after a customer called Christie to 
commend Williams’ heroic actions that Williams 
acknowledged his role as rescuer, shrugging it off 
as “just being in the right place at the right time.” HEROES AWARD
Franklin Williams: Right Man in the Right PlaceAll employees and retirees are eligible for 
the award, as are nonemployees who 
perform heroic deeds or services directly 
related to the communications network 
owned and operated by Verizon. Cash 
awards range from $250 to $10,000. 
Health and Safety
For more than a century, safety has been a 
top priority for Verizon and our predecessor 
companies. We take measures to ensure that all employees, both management 
and associates, receive the proper 
training and equipment to perform their 
jobs safely. 
The chart on the next page depicts 
our corporate injury/illness and 
lost work day performance.   
While our safety results have improved, 
we are committed to continuing to 
improve our performance. Our Safety 
Management Team regularly reviews 
work operations and develops practices 
and procedures that institutionalize 
strengths and address opportunities for 
improvement. In addition, our lines of 
business develop and implement Safety 
Action Plans focused on improving safe 
work performance and reducing the 
incidence of employee injury and illness. 
The lines of business regularly conduct 
site reviews and implement appropriate 
process improvements to sustain an 
injury-free work environment.  CR P25…Improving Lives
Our lines of business regularly conduct 
site reviews and implement appropriate 
process improvements to sustain an 
injury-free work environment. 
5.5
5.0
4.5
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
 2001 2002 2003 2004+Making Connections…Improving Lives
Injury and Illness Data
Verizon (wireline, Verizon Information Services and domestic based international employees)
VERIZON OSHA TOTAL LWD RATEVERIZON OSHA TOTAL 
RECORDABLE RATE
+Through September 2004  
Note: The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) T otal Recordable Rate reﬂ  ects the number of injuries/illnesses experienced per 100 
employees. The Total Lost Work Day (LWD) rate reﬂ  ects the number of injury/illness cases per 100 employees that result in time off the job.Verizon has deep  roots as  a local company.  We are 
a leading employer, a major taxpayer and a large 
purchaser of goods and services.  
Verizon has one of the largest capital investment 
programs in corporate America. Between 2000 and 
2003, we invested $55 billion in infrastructure – more 
capital than any other telecom company in America. Promoting Community GrowthVerizon
Making Connections…
CR P26CR P27…Improving Lives
WE BELIEVE THAT BROADBAND  and 
wireless technologies change customers’ 
lives for the better. And as we deploy 
these advanced technologies throughout 
our networks, we will deliver the benefits 
of the broadband era to a wide swath 
of society, ushering in a new age of 
technology-driven growth, innovation and 
life-enhancing services.
Broadband Deployment
Our networks are our principal instruments 
for contributing to society. For millions 
of customers every day, a Verizon 
network — wired or wireless — is the 
gateway to communication, and our 
fundamental mission is to make that 
connection as powerful and reliable as 
possible. To that end, our company 
has a long history of integrating life-
enhancing new technologies into our 
network infrastructure. From the digital 
transformation of the 1980s and 1990s 
to the broadband transformation of 
$5.2
billion   
in retiree benefits
Provides our 
retirees with the 
means to maintain 
their quality of 
life through their 
retirement yearsOver 
$13
billion  
in salaries and 
wages
Represents nearly 
2 percent of all U.S. 
wages in the trade, 
transportation and 
utility industryNearly 
$12
billion  
 in capital 
expenditures 
(network, 
equipment and 
infrastructure)
Represents almost 
3 percent of U.S. 
capital expenditures 
in the information 
processing 
equipment and 
software sector $1 .4
billion  
in federal, state 
and other taxes 
net of refunds
Represents over 
2 percent of U.S. 
state and federal 
income, property 
and sales taxes$4.2
billion  
in dividends
Represents 1 
percent of U.S. 
personal dividend 
income $2.6
billion  
in net interest 
payments
Represents nearly 
0.5 percent of 
U.S. net interest 
and miscellaneous 
payments by 
domestic industries Impact of Verizon on the U.S. Economy during 2003 Our networks are our 
principal instruments for 
contributing to society. 
Verizon has a long 
history of integrating 
life-enhancing new 
technologies into our 
network infrastructure. CR P28Verizon
Making Connections…
today, innovation in communications 
has made businesses more productive, 
stimulated entrepreneurial activity, opened 
up new educational opportunities and 
generally changed the way individuals 
communicate, learn and play.
Verizon has been an integral part of this 
revolution. We have deployed digital 
technologies throughout our networks, 
qualifying 49 million lines for digital 
subscriber line (DSL) services with 
speeds up to 3 Mbps. We currently have 
3.3 million DSL customers in locations 
across the United States, ranging from 
inner city to rural communities. We are now 
transforming our networks again to provide 
even faster broadband services that meet 
the demands of the Internet-age customer. 
In wireless, we are the first company in 
the nation to deliver a true broadband 
wide area network with our deployment 
of BroadbandAccess, which is based 
on evolution-data optimized technology 
(EV-DO). BroadbandAccess provides 
wireless data service at average speeds 
of 300–500 Kbps, making such features 
as Internet browsing, data downloads 
and e-mail viable services for customers 
on the go. Initially deployed in San Diego 
and Washington, D.C., BroadbandAccess 
will be available in one-third of our 
markets by the end of 2004 and in 
additional markets throughout 2005.
In our wired network, we have initiated 
deployment of Internet Protocol (IP)–
compatible switches that can handle 
voice, data and video transmissions Remote Indian Tribe Gets 
Connected to the World  
The information superhighway has come to the 20 families 
who live on the Sauk-Suiattle Indian reservation* in the 
remote Cascade Mountains, thanks to an initiative to bring 
broadband technology and its beneﬁ  ts to Indian tribes in rural 
and remote areas. 
Each family has a new computer with wi-ﬁ   (wireless ﬁ  delity) 
high-speed Internet access under the initiative, developed 
by the Afﬁ  liated Tribes of Northwest Indians–Economic 
Development Corporation (ATNI–EDC), the Bill and Melinda 
Gates Foundation and Verizon Avenue, a subsidiary of Verizon. 
ATNI–EDC is a nonproﬁ  t organization that helps Indian tribes use 
telecommunications and information technology to stimulate 
economic development on the reservations. 
The families also received computer training and have access 
to a private network that will enable them to share information 
about grant applications, health and local news. 
“These new computers and the high-speed Internet access open 
a world of opportunities to the tribe that we didn’t have before,” 
said Chief Jason L. Joseph. “Education is key to a better life 
for our families, and having broadband gives us the power to 
take advantage of distance learning and hundreds of colleges 
and universities that offer online degrees. We’re grateful to our 
technology partners who made this possible.” 
*  Residents in the Sauk-Suiattle Indian Reservation are the surviving descendents of the original 
peoples who lived in the region of Sauk Prairie, near the present-day town of Darrington, Washington. 
The current tribe membership is around 200 individuals, some of whom live near the reservation. 
“ Education is key to a better life for our 
families, and having broadband gives us 
the power to take advantage of distance 
learning and hundreds of colleges and 
universities that offer online degrees. 
We’re grateful to our technology partners 
who made this possible.”
Chief Jason L. JosephCR P29…Improving Lives
simultaneously — the largest such 
deployment in the industry. We also are 
the first telecom company to make a major 
commitment to deploying fiber-optic cable 
to customers’ premises through our FiOS 
service. FiOS will deliver up to 30 Mbps 
speeds to homes and small businesses. 
While this exciting initiative is just 
beginning, our target is to reach 1 million 
homes by the end of 2004 and to double 
that pace in 2005.
This two-way broadband power will lead 
to truly transformational applications 
that will revolutionize commerce, 
improve quality of life and usher in a As we deploy advanced 
technologies throughout our 
networks, we will deliver the 
benefits of the broadband era to 
a wide swath of society, ushering 
in a new age of technology-
driven growth, innovation and 
life-enhancing services.CR P30Verizon
Making Connections…
new era of innovative services, such 
as video instant messaging, anywhere 
education, Web services and information 
management for small businesses, 
telemedicine and virtual town meetings.Our networks will be the foundation 
for thousands of new applications and 
devices, some provided by us, but many 
coming from entrepreneurs and users who 
will tap the power of these technologies in 
ways we can’t even imagine today.Supplier Diversity
Building a strong base of diverse 
suppliers is critical to Verizon’s success 
in a competitive marketplace. These 
relationships contribute to customer loyalty, 
stimulate economic growth in our markets 
and enable us to tap into a rich vein of 
innovation and entrepreneurship.
Each year we establish objectives for 
greater spending with Minority, Women, 
Persons with Disabilities and Veteren-
owned Business Enterprises (MWDVBEs). 
Even as our total corporate spending 
in 2003 declined by 17 percent over 
2002, the total percentage of MWDVBE 
spending increased to 7 percent from 6.6 
percent. We purchased more than $1.7 
billion dollars in goods and services from 
MWDVBEs in 2003, and we increased our 
supplier diversity in a variety of ways: 
•  We expanded our reliance on MWDVBE 
financial services firms, which now 
manage more than $1 billion in pension 
and Verizon Foundation assets. 
•  We required prime suppliers to use 
minority subcontractors to fulfill their 
contract obligations. 
•  Almost all major requests for proposals 
included MWDVBE objectives. 
•  We asked more than 7,000 MWDVBE 
suppliers to update their firms’ capability 
profile and certification information in 
our online supplier registration program 
to ensure their continued eligibility for 
contracts.Diamond P Enterprises
Verizon has partnered with many of our major equipment 
manufacturers to develop opportunities for minority suppliers 
while improving quality and reducing costs. More than 100 
prime suppliers participate in our second-tier program. 
One example is our partnership with cable manufacturer Superior 
Telecommunications in the development of a Hispanic-owned 
ﬁ  rm, Diamond P Enterprises, in Brownwood, Texas. Diamond P 
Enterprises provides wire cutting and 
packaging services for approximately 
206 million feet annually of the 
aerial service wire, buried service 
wire and station wire that Superior 
Telecommunications supplies to Verizon. 
Diamond P strategically located its 
facilities adjacent to the Superior 
Telecommunications plant in 
Brownwood. This has enabled 
Superior Telecommunications to 
outsource both cable and wire 
cutting as well as its packaging 
operation to Diamond P while freeing 
up needed factory space for manufacturing. Verizon’s purchases 
from Diamond P now exceed $35 million annually.
We purchased more than
$1 .7 billion
in goods and services from 
diverse suppliers in 2003. 
CR P31…Improving Lives
•  We co-sponsored and participated in 
46 events designed to generate greater 
opportunity for MWDVBEs at the local, 
regional and national levels.  
We are concerned, however, that among 
our diverse suppliers the percentage of 
African-American and Hispanic vendors is 
in a downward trend. 
There has been some upturn in those 
numbers this year, but we recognize that 
we can do more to improve our supplier 
diversity performance. Accordingly, we 
launched a pilot program to work with 
advocacy groups to identify and prescreen 
minority vendors and are working with 
our existing suppliers to develop new 
opportunities. We also actively encourage 
our diverse suppliers to use technology 
and technology applications such as e-
commerce, electronic data interchange 
(EDI) and electronic bids to be better 
positioned for Verizon contracts. 
And we continue to improve the design 
and usability of our online registration 
program (http://www.verizon.com/
supplierdiversity), so that MWDVBE 
suppliers can register online to be 
considered in our requests for proposals.Verizon Avenue and 
One Economy Team 
Up to Bring High-Speed 
Internet Access to 
Low-Income Families  
Verizon Avenue, a subsidiary of Verizon, and national 
nonproﬁ  t One Economy Corporation, signed an agreement 
to work together to put affordable high-speed Internet 
access into the homes of many low-income Americans. 
One Economy will target developers of affordable housing 
to integrate broadband access into multifamily properties 
throughout Verizon’s service area of 29 states and the 
District of Columbia. Verizon Avenue will work with One 
Economy and with developers to build infrastructure and 
ﬁ  nd low-cost Internet access solutions. One Economy 
and Verizon initially will focus their efforts on new 
affordable housing projects of at least 100 units. 
“Our partnership with Verizon not only delivers a complete 
Internet access solution to an untapped, underserved market, 
but it also brings together the telecom and affordable housing 
industries as never before,” said Rey Ramsey, CEO of One 
Economy Corporation. “Low-income families have shown 
that they’re willing to invest in and use technology if given 
access. Verizon’s willingness to explore new territory enables 
us to supply that access in a quantity and at a price that’s 
truly affordable for families living in low-income housing.”
“Finally, there can be a wholesale narrowing of the technology 
gap between the haves and the have-nots,” Ramsey 
continued. “This unprecedented access throws open the door 
for underserved people to help their families, their kids and 
themselves, in areas ranging from education to health care.” Verizon
Making Connections…
CR P32
Protecting the Environment 
“Our potential impact on the environment — for good or ill — is in 
some ways an emblem of our potential to have a positive or negative 
impact on society as a whole. That’s why corporate responsibility is 
more than just a slogan for Verizon — it’s part of who we are.” 
Ivan Seidenberg, Chairman and CEO YOU DON’T NECESSARILY THINK  
about telecommunications as a business 
with a big environmental impact. But we 
do. We operate one of the largest private 
fleets in the United States, with nearly 
53,000 vehicles. We occupy more than 
16,000 owned and leased buildings in 
virtually every state of the union — 118 
million square feet of building space, more 
than practically any other company in the 
United States. We publish approximately 
141 million directories and print millions of 
paper bills a month. And because our voice 
and data services are a vital resource on 
which the economy increasingly runs, our 
operations continue as needed 24 hours a 
day, seven days a week.
With such a presence, we feel an environ-
mental responsibility to our customers and 
our communities. Corporate Environmental Policy
Our principal environmental protection 
objectives are to reduce our carbon dioxide 
emissions and increase our recycling rates. 
Verizon’s commitment to these and other 
environmental concerns is spelled out 
in a corporate policy statement, issued 
by our CEO and supported by senior 
management. The following are the major 
tenets of the policy:
•  Developing and implementing practices 
that demonstrate environmental 
protection and conservation of natural 
resources; and 
•  Undertaking voluntary initiatives that 
exceed applicable laws and regulations 
where appropriate.
Our complete policy statement is available 
at  http://www22.verizon.com/pages/
environment.  
Verizon backs up this policy with a 
comprehensive management system 
governing all corporate activity that 
might affect the environment. This 
system includes reviews of key factors 
related to our environmental impact by a 
senior-level corporate governance body 
and the Audit and Finance Committee 
of the Board of Directors. We also 
commission independent auditing of 
the management system itself.Services and applications 
such as teleworking, 
videoconferencing, distance 
learning and e-commerce 
allow customers to exchange 
information and ideas without 
actually traveling — saving 
energy and reducing pollution. Conversely, our technology enables 
others to behave in an environmentally 
responsible way. Services and applications 
such as teleworking, videoconferencing, 
distance learning and e-commerce allow 
customers to exchange information and 
ideas without actually traveling  — saving 
energy and reducing pollution. Today, 
customers can use our wired and wireless 
services to make the distribution of goods 
more efficient; help reduce energy use in 
factories, offices and homes; and take 
advantage of telemedicine and distance 
learning. 
As we deploy even faster, more pervasive 
broadband networks in the future, we 
will provide our customers with an even 
broader array of options that will enable 
them to minimize the impact of their 
activities on the environment. CR P33…Improving LivesCR P34Verizon
Making Connections…
Team Energy
Our real estate group created Team 
Energy in 1999 to engage a group 
of employees across the company in 
promoting environmentally-responsible 
and cost-effective energy use. Team 
Energy seeks ways to improve the 
energy efficiency of Verizon buildings 
by researching and using alternative 
energy sources. Currently, Team Energy 
is investigating fuel cell and microturbine 
technologies to determine whether they 
are viable alternatives to traditional sources 
of commercial power. In addition, Team 
Energy created the Energy Champion 
Program, which encourages employees 
to find creative approaches to energy 
conservation in their own work locations. 
Even as our network has grown over 
the past three years, Team Energy has 
succeeded in reducing Verizon’s energy 
consumption and greenhouse gas 
emissions, as the graph on the right shows.
As a result of Team Energy’s dedicated 
efforts, Verizon earned Energy Star 
certifications from the Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) and the 
Department of Energy (DOE) for eight 
office buildings, and it received the 
2002 Energy Star Award for Corporate 
Commitment from these agencies. No 
other company in the telecommunications 
industry has earned as many Energy 
Star certifications as Verizon.Recycling and Waste Reduction
Verizon’s recycling and waste reduction 
program focuses on recycling marketable 
materials, minimizing waste and using 
quality products made with recycled 
material. One of the largest components of 
our recycling program is the management 
of equipment that we retire as we maintain 
and upgrade our network (see chart on the 
next page). We repair whatever equipment 
can be fixed, reuse what we can in our networks, sell that which is marketable 
elsewhere and pass the rest on to recyclers 
for conversion into raw materials for 
use in manufacturing new products. 
We also have an ongoing program to 
recycle office paper which has had 
excellent results.  In 2003, we recycled 
more than 25,000 tons of paper, saving 
$1.25 million in waste removal costs.  
Making Connections…Improving Lives
Making Connections…Improving Lives
CO2 Emissions in Tons
2001
2002
2003
Gasoline Diesel Electricity Total5,000,000
4,500,000
4,000,000
3,500,000
3,000,000
2,500,000
2,000,000
1,500,000
1,000,000
500,000
0Making Connections…Improving Lives
CR P35…Improving Lives
Rechargeable Battery Collection
Customers who come across old 
rechargeable wireless phone batteries 
around the house can drop them off at their 
local Verizon Wireless Communications 
store as part of the company’s support of 
Charge Up to Recycle! 
The recycling program collects spent 
batteries and reclaims usable material such 
as nickel and cadmium; recovered nickel 
and iron are used in the production of 
stainless steel, while cadmium is used to 
make new portable rechargeable batteries. For more information about Charge Up to 
Recycle!, visit http://www.rbrc.com. 
Environmental Remediation
We work hard to minimize the impact 
of our operations on the environment, 
and work equally hard to devote the 
appropriate resources when environmental 
remediation is required. For example, 
we have a large inventory of fuel storage 
tanks that provide emergency power to 
our network during commercial power 
interruptions. We have an ambitious 
program to monitor the integrity of the 
storage tanks and repair leaks and clean 
up contamination associated with the tanks 
whenever it occurs. 
Office Paper in Tons30,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
0
2002 2003Making Connections…Improving Lives
Verizon Office Paper Recycling
GTE, a Verizon subsidiary, entered into 
environmental indemnity agreements when 
it sold various manufacturing businesses. 
GTE has been consistently meeting those 
obligations. 
A site which was a focus of GTE’s 
attention this year is a facility in Hicksville, 
New York, where a former GTE business 
manufactured nuclear fuel rods for the 
federal government during the 1950s 
and 1960s. GTE continues to work with 
the government to address residual 
contamination on the site.   
More than
6,200,000 
residential customers receive their monthly 
bills online and can pay them electronically.
60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
0Telecommunications Recycling
Making Connections…Improving LivesTelecommunications Material in Tons
2002 2003
Note: The 2003 telecommunications recycling 
rate dropped for a variety of reasons, including 
a reduction in capital and expense budgets.CR P36Verizon
Making Connections…
Paperless Billing
In addition to recycling the paper 
we use, we work hard to reduce the 
amount of paper we generate. For 
example, the wireline group now offers 
paper-free billing services. More than 
6.2 million residential and 260,000 
small business customers receive their 
monthly bills online and can pay them 
electronically, a convenience for them 
that also reduces paper use and waste. 
Customers are invited to go to http://www.
verizon.com/paperfreebilling to register for 
this service. 
In addition, Verizon Wireless has rolled out 
online billing. By registering for paperless 
billing via My Account at http://www.
verizonwireless.com/, customers can elect 
to view and pay bills online. The wireless 
billing enhancements reduce paper use by 
about 40 percent and save more than 3.6 
million kilowatt hours of electricity and more 
than 165,000 pounds of ink each year. 
Verizon Directories
Verizon Information Services (VIS), our 
yellow pages business unit, minimizes the 
environmental impact of our directories by:
•  Using paper with a minimum of 40 
percent recycled content;•  Using suppressed surnames in many 
directories, where the last name is not 
printed on every line, thereby reducing 
the size of our directories;
•  Distributing CD-ROM versions of 
directories to large business customers in 
selected areas across the United States;
•  Recycling old phone books and waste 
paper from the printing process;
•  Publishing local recycling information 
in primary telephone directories 
in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic 
states and in Oregon; andIn 2002 Verizon received 
the Energy Star Award for 
Corporate Commitment from 
the Environmental Protection 
Agency and the Department 
of Energy. 
No other company in the 
telecommunications industry 
has earned as many Energy 
Star certifications as Verizon.
More than
260,000 
small business customers 
receive their monthly bills online 
and can pay them electronically.•  Offering paperless electronic directory 
alternatives via SuperPages.com and 
SuperPages On the Go. 
Finally, we print our annual report on 
nonglossy recycled paper and make 
it and our proxy materials available 
electronically. Currently, more than 60,000 
shareowners receive annual report 
and proxy materials electronically.
For more information about Verizon’s 
environmental commitment and the many 
awards it has received, please visit http://
www22.verizon.com/pages/environment.  CR P37…Improving Lives
Number of Phones 
CollectedNumber of Phones 
Donated to 
Domestic Violence 
OrganizationsContributions to 
Domestic Violence 
and Other Advocacy 
Organizations*Number of Phones 
Recycled
2003 900,000 6,273 $3,712,566 893,727
2002 500,000 1,464 $1,455,880 498,536
HopeLine Program
Verizon Wireless encourages customers who are upgrading their wireless phones to participate 
in its exclusive HopeLine phone-recycling program. The national HopeLine program distributes 
previously owned wireless phones to victims of domestic violence, supports nonproﬁ  t domestic 
violence prevention advocacy groups and provides an environmentally safe way to recycle 
phones. Donations are accepted at all 1,200-plus Verizon Wireless Communications stores across 
the country and during special events co-hosted by professional and college sports teams.
The above data indicate our progress over the past two years.
For additional information, customers can visit http://www.verizonwireless.com/hopeline.   
*  Includes philanthropic and grassroots organizations such as Make-A-Wish Foundation, Leukemia and Lymphoma Society (Ohio), Food Outreach, Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, 
Early Education Center, Salvation Army and Boy Scouts of America.Verizon
Making Connections…
CR P38
Partnering with Communities 
“ We seek partners who have leadership 
presence in their respective communities, 
who leverage technology and provide 
innovative solutions that address 
community needs.” 
Patrick Gaston, President, Verizon Foundation CR P39…Improving Lives
We are committed to using 
our technical, financial and 
human resources to help 
create powerful networks.
2003    $75,000,000 
2002 $75,000,000
2001 + $70,000,000AS A COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY,  
Verizon’s business is built on a simple, 
powerful premise: The more people 
who are connected to a network, the 
more valuable the network is to those 
who use it. The same is true of human 
networks. An individual with passion 
and commitment can make a difference 
in a community, but a network of such 
people — connected by information 
and communications technology to the 
larger global community — multiplies 
those individual efforts into a much 
more powerful collective force.
We are committed to using our technical, 
financial and human resources to help 
create these kinds of powerful networks 
for progress. In our philanthropic 
giving, we use these resources to 
help bring the benefits of technology 
to communities, empowering them 
to address key social issues.  
We foster relationships and invest 
in partnerships that address social 
and economic needs in America’s 
diverse communities. We partner with + Does not include company and employee response 
to September 11, 2001Overall Verizon Foundation Budgetorganizations that use technology to 
develop innovative literacy, education, 
health care and work-force development 
programs. And we encourage our 
employees and our customers to make a 
difference by donating their time, money 
and talents to nonprofit agencies to help 
build stronger, sustainable communities.
Our approach goes beyond the traditional 
definition of philanthropy. Our online 
grassroots programs put the tools for 
action in the hands of people who can 
make a difference at the local level. 
Together, we are building a lasting 
foundation and are making sure people 
have the fundamental skills — particularly 
literacy and the ability to use 
technology — to succeed in the digital era.
Verizon Foundation
The Verizon Foundation oversees Verizon’s 
philanthropic activities. The foundation is 
one of the 15 largest corporate foundations 
in the United States, with an annual 
budget of almost $75 million and more 
than 21,000 grants awarded to nonprofit 
organizations in 2003. CR P40Verizon
Making Connections…
Verizon is committed to 
investing in the development 
of a skilled, technologically 
literate and diverse work force.CR P41…Improving Lives
learn to use computer applications to 
improve organizational effectiveness. 
Through our in-kind program, we donate 
computers each year to community-based 
organizations throughout the country. 
Examples of support in this area include 
partnerships with Generations United and 
the United States Hispanic Chamber of 
Commerce Foundation.
We’ve also developed an online 
“Technology Resource Guide” that lists 
resources available to nonprofits that are 
seeking to improve their technology skills. 
The guide also provides an analysis tool 
on how to integrate new technologies into 
nonprofit operations.
Verizon Foundation Takes 
Philanthropic Pulse in 
Corporate Online Survey
In 2004 the Verizon Foundation launched the Verizon Corporate 
Philanthropy Pulse, an online tool that gathers public opinion 
on philanthropic issues. Called an “innovative breakthrough” 
by the Council on Foundations,* this survey tool helps assess 
the issues and needs of our diverse communities and allows 
us to share timely information with philanthropic organizations, 
the general public and employees. The foundation posts 
a different survey every few months on a topic associated 
with philanthropic trends and community issues. 
* The Council on Foundations is a membership organization of more than 2,000 grant-making 
foundations and giving programs.
Matching Gifts to Nonprofits from 
Verizon Foundation
2003 $15,300,000
2002 $12,500,000
2001 + $10,700,000The foundation focuses on demonstrating 
the value of wireline and wireless 
technologies by helping nonprofits develop 
online capabilities that increase their 
effectiveness, promote computer skills and 
deliver such benefits as Internet-based 
education and health services.  
Empowering Communities 
through Technology
The Verizon Foundation is putting 
information and communications 
technology to work for communities 
by supporting nonprofit organizations’ 
initiatives that bring broadband-age 
technology to underserved neighborhoods 
and populations. We provide access to 
the Internet, help organizations design 
and set up their networks and help people 
+ Does not include company and employee response to 
September 11, 2001CR P42Verizon
Making Connections…
Consistent with our corporate position as a 
broadband pioneer, the Verizon Foundation 
is a recognized leader in making its 
programs and resources available online.
As one of the largest private employers in 
the United States, Verizon is committed to 
investing in the development of a skilled, 
technologically literate and diverse work 
force. The Verizon Foundation supports 
this commitment through programs that 
offer career planning and preparation 
for high school students, scholarship 
opportunities for students traditionally 
underrepresented in colleges and 
universities, and access to training and 
employment networks for the unemployed 
and underemployed. 
For more information on the Verizon 
Foundation and its programs, please visit our website at http://www.verizon.com/
foundation. The information is available in 
both English and Spanish.
Improving Literacy Levels 
across America   
Improving literacy levels in the United 
States has always been a top priority 
for Verizon. Through a combination 
of corporate philanthropy, employee 
participation, celebrity volunteers, 
partnerships with literacy organizations 
and contributions from our customers, 
our goal is to improve literacy levels 
in America and position ourselves 
as America’s literacy champion.
Literacy — in particular, e-literacy (computer 
skills and the ability to use information 
and communications technology) — is a primary building block of communications, 
necessary for individuals to unlock the 
power and full potential of the broadband 
communities that Verizon is building. Now 
more than ever, Verizon’s commitment 
to literacy is critical to the communities it 
serves. Broadband products and services 
are valuable tools to help organizations 
increase literacy and e-literacy levels in the 
communities they serve.
Verizon’s signature program is Verizon 
Reads. Its mission is to encourage 
collaboration among literacy organizations, 
increase public awareness of low literacy 
levels and generate funds and support 
for local and national literacy programs. 
Under the Verizon Reads umbrella, Verizon 
annually contributes about $17 million 
toward literacy programs nationwide. 
Some of these programs are listed in 
the next section. To learn more, please 
visit http://www.verizonreads.net.
Literacy Partners
Verizon Reads helps almost 40 million 
individuals by working with organizations 
across the country that create and deliver 
local and national literacy programs. The 
following are some of these organizations:
•  The American Library Association 
•  Communities in Schools 
•  First Book
•  The International Reading Association
•  The League of United Latin American 
Citizens (LULAC)
•  Literacy USA (formerly NAULC)Verizon Receives 
National Society of 
Black Engineers Award
The National Society of Black Engineers honored Verizon with its 
2004 Golden Torch Award for Corporate Community Service. The 
award recognizes companies that demonstrate a commitment 
to economic development, technology advancement and 
advocacy for the African-American community. The group’s 
national chairman said, “Verizon and its employees stand 
out because they don’t just provide ﬁ  nancial support, they 
get involved. Their corporatewide approach to diversity 
results in positive, tangible support in our communities.” 
The Verizon Foundation has invested more than $58 million in the 
African-American community since 2000, focusing on literacy, 
technology solutions, work-force development and employee 
volunteerism. In 2003, the foundation gave $14.7 million to 
nonproﬁ  t organizations serving the African-American community. 
These grants support programs to help bridge the digital divide, 
encourage entrepreneurship, foster literacy and education 
initiatives, and increase the representation of minorities in 
engineering, science and other technical professions.CR P43…Improving Lives
•  The National Center for Family Literacy
•  The National Coalition for Literacy
•  The National Institute for Literacy 
•  ProLiteracy Worldwide
•  Reach Out and Read  
•  Reading Is Fundamental   
•  Reading Recovery   
Verizon Literacy Network
This online resource links the nation’s 
leading literacy organizations to the 
public via the Internet. By providing a 
comprehensive, easily accessible, Web-
based database of thousands of literacy organizations, the Literacy Network 
facilitates volunteerism, information and 
resource gathering, and coalition building. 
By making these resources available on 
the Internet, the Literacy Network extends 
the reach of local organizations and helps 
stretch scarce resources. The following are 
two components of the network:
•  America’s Literacy Directory.  A service 
that enables potential volunteers 
or those in need to locate literacy 
providers in their community or across 
the country. Visitors can search by 
organization type, state or ZIP code.
Literacy, and e-literacy in 
particular, is a primary building 
block of communications.•  Verizon Literacy Campus . This online 
program addresses a critical need 
by helping literacy organizations 
expand or enhance their base of 
instructors, volunteers and community-
based advocates. The campus 
provides potential volunteers with 
a comprehensive view of literacy 
and the diverse opportunities in the 
field, including tutoring, training and 
mentoring. The campus also provides 
free online courses that literacy 
volunteers and program staff can use 
to increase their proficiency in working 
in or with literacy organizations. CR P44Verizon
Making Connections…
Check Into Literacy
This innovative program enables our 
customers to donate $1 a month to 
literacy causes by simply checking a box 
on their telephone bills or calling their local 
customer service center. The donations 
go to Verizon Reads, which distributes 
the funds to national and local literacy 
organizations. Check Into Literacy is 
available in 27 states and the District of 
Columbia, and has raised more than $3 
million for literacy nationwide.
Verizon Literacy Champions
Literacy Champions are celebrity 
volunteers who work with Verizon Reads to 
raise awareness and resources for literacy 
initiatives. These celebrities — including 
professional athletes, movie and TV actors 
and recording artists — promote literacy 
through book drives, sporting events 
and other community activities, with the 
proceeds benefiting local and national 
literacy organizations. Nearly 40 celebrities 
have volunteered as literacy champions.
Season’s Readings
Verizon employees 
offer their time and 
talents to literacy during 
the holiday season 
through the Season’s 
Readings program. 
Every December, 
we encourage our 
employees and retirees 
to donate books and 
reading time to children 
and adults in their 
communities. In three Verizon Helps First Book 
Create Online Book Bank 
During a celebration-of-reading event at the U.S. Department 
of Education, Verizon and First Book distributed books 
donated by Disney Publishing to literacy groups serving the 
Washington, D.C. area. First Book is a national nonproﬁ  t 
agency and a Verizon literacy partner, dedicated to providing 
new books to children from low-income families. 
Verizon’s $200,000 grant and support created an online 
presence for the First Book National Book Bank, at http://www.
nationalbookbank.org, enabling more people to learn about the 
program and volunteer, more organizations to register to receive 
books and more publishers to donate books to children in need.  
The Washington event marked the beginning of a planned 
distribution of more than 100,000 books to children in Maryland, 
New Jersey, Virginia, North Carolina, the District of Columbia, 
Delaware and West Virginia. Members of the company’s 
employee resource group CITE (Consortium of Information 
and Telecommunications Executives) worked with First Book 
representatives to sort, package and deliver the books. Verizon 
assisted the distribution effort by housing 
the books at a local warehouse. In 
conjunction with the Washington event, 
Grammy award-winning jazz musician 
and Verizon Literacy Champion Al Jarreau 
read to 30 children from the Project 
Northstar: Homeless Children’s Tutorial 
Project, which provides educational 
and emotional support to homeless 
children through one-on-one tutoring. 
To learn more about Verizon’s literacy 
program, or to see footage of the event, 
go to http://www.verizonreads.net.
CR P45…Improving Lives
years, Verizon’s employees, retirees and 
partners have donated more than 778,000 
books and pledged more than 110,000 
hours of reading time to their communities.  
During the 2004 holiday season, Verizon 
Reads partnered with Barnes & Noble 
Booksellers for a joint literacy campaign 
under the banner “A Million Books 
for a Million Children.” The campaign 
was featured in more than 800 Barnes 
& Noble bookstores and at a special 
Verizon Reads online site. Verizon 
employees, Barnes & Noble employees 
and the public were invited to purchase 
books for donation to the campaign. 
To date, more than 1,500 organizations 
have benefited from the annual Season’s 
Readings campaign, and we expect 
more than 2,500 organizations to benefit 
through the Barnes & Noble partnership . Verizon SuperPages Enlighten Me   
Available on http://www.superpages.
com, this online literacy and education 
site is designed to stimulate intellectual 
exploration among children and provide 
parents, caregivers and teachers a robust 
educational resource that promotes the 
value of literacy and reading for children 
while they enjoy creative learning. 
Foundation Honored by Wilmer 
Shields Rich Awards
The Verizon Foundation website (http://www.verizon.com/foundation) 
earned a Silver Award for excellence in communications in the 2004 
Wilmer Shields Rich awards program. The program is sponsored by the 
Council on Foundations and the Communications Network, a nonproﬁ  t 
organization that promotes strategic communications as an essential 
part of successful philanthropy. The website also won the Silver 
Award in 2003 and received top honors in 2001 with the Gold Award.   
Wilmer Shields Rich, executive director of the National Council 
on Community Foundations (now the Council on Foundations) 
from 1957 to 1968, was an early champion of public accountability 
for charitable foundations in both their resources and activities. 
The awards program named for her originated in 1984.
Hours Donated to Nonprofit 
Organizations by Employees
2003 595,000 *
2002 522,000 *
2001 + 790,000 *
+ Does not include company and employee response to 
September 11, 2001
* Figures are based on employee participation in volunteer 
incentive program.
Funds Given/Raised by 
Verizon Volunteers
2003 $20,700,000
2002 $15,300,000
2001 + $12,000,000
+ Does not include company and employee response to 
September 11, 2001Enlighten Me features activities that 
promote learning in the classroom and 
at home, including tips for incorporating 
literacy and technology into family life, 
reading recommendations, information 
about literacy programs, classroom 
curricula for teachers, tips to help children 
get involved in their communities and fun 
and provocative activities and lessons that 
develop children’s skills in questioning, 
reasoning, listening, responding, 
abstraction, invention and civic literacy. 
Serving Our Communities through 
Employee Volunteerism  
Because Verizon employees have a long-
standing tradition of volunteerism and 
community service, employee volunteerism 
is a priority in Verizon’s overall corporate 
responsibility efforts. We recognize that 
our employees have many talents and 
interests, and we encourage them to 
volunteer their time and resources to help 
make the world a better place.
In 2001, we launched Verizon Volunteers, 
one of the largest corporate matching 
gift and employee volunteer programs in 
the world. The program is designed to maximize the power of Verizon employees 
and retirees to benefit communities 
by providing incentives for employee 
donations of time, talent and money. 
An employee chooses the nonprofit 
organizations he or she wishes to support, 
and the Verizon Foundation makes a 
contribution to the organization based 
on the employee’s volunteer hours and 
monetary contributions.  
Verizon Volunteers marshals the 
commitment and talent of our employees 
and retirees into an enormous force for 
change in communities: In 2003 the 
contributions amounted to almost 600,000 
volunteer hours and $34.6 million in 
employee donations and matching gifts to 
charitable and nonprofit organizations in 
all 50 states, the District of Columbia and 
several countries around the world.
Verizon TelecomPioneers
The TelecomPioneers is the world’s 
largest industry-related volunteer 
organization. Founded in 1911, the 
TelecomPioneers includes dozens of 
chapters operating in the United States, 
Canada and Mexico. The nearly 750,000 
members of the Pioneers are employees 
and retirees of telecommunications 
companies. Verizon sponsors more than 
130,000 of these members (the Verizon 
TelecomPioneers), who are organized into 
17 chapters across the United States. 
During the past 12 months, Verizon 
TelecomPioneers have volunteered 2.6 
million hours in their communities.  Education and literacy are the Pioneers’ 
primary concerns. The centerpiece of 
the TelecomPioneers reading program 
is “A Book About ME.” The books are 
personalized readers for kindergarten 
through second grade students. Through 
this program, TelecomPioneers have played 
a significant role in improving the self-
concept and self-esteem of almost 600,000 
students across the United States and 
Canada and have increased student interest 
in reading. The program has also helped 
parents become more involved in their 
children’s development.  For more information about the 
TelecomPioneers, please visit 
http://www.telecompioneers.org.
Extending Our Reach Internationally
Verizon’s international presence extends to 
more than 22 countries around the globe, 
with strategic focus on the Americas. The 
Americas and the Caribbean regions are 
vital parts of Verizon’s existing operations, 
combining the strength of telecom 
operators that include the following: 
•  Verizon Dominicana – the leading local,  
long-distance and wireless telephone 
service provider in the Dominican 
Republic. 
National Coalition for 
Literacy Honors Verizon
The National Coalition for Literacy (NCL) honored Verizon in 2004 with 
its Literacy Leadership Award. The award recognizes individuals or 
organizations that have made extraordinary contributions to improving 
literacy in the United States. Recipients of the award have demonstrated 
a deep and sustained individual or corporate commitment by supporting 
literacy continuously on the local, state and national levels. 
“The National Coalition for Literacy is extraordinarily pleased to honor 
Verizon for its outstanding support to advance adult literacy,” said 
Dale Lipschultz, president of NCL’s Board of Directors. “[Verizon’s] 
leadership has truly strengthened literacy in America and has been a 
constant source of inspiration and 
encouragement.” Verizon won in part 
because of innovative programs such 
as the Literacy Network, Literacy 
Champions and Check Into Literacy.CR P46Verizon
Making Connections…
•  Puerto Rico Telephone – the largest 
provider of telecommunications services 
in Puerto Rico.
•  CANTV – a national full-service 
telecommunications provider in 
Venezuela. 
Working through these companies, 
Verizon’s International Foundation 
spends about $1 million per year to 
support educational initiatives, stimulate 
economic growth and promote work-force 
development. Additionally, the foundation 
provides financial assistance, directly and 
by matching employee donations, when 
natural disasters such as hurricanes and 
earthquakes strike the countries where 
we have a presence, as well as in other 
locations around the globe.
Verizon’s special focus on literacy extends 
to its international philanthropy. In the 
Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and 
Venezuela, we work with governments 
and literacy organizations to provide 
communities with teachers, computers, 
learning materials and, in some cases, even 
the buildings to house these resources. 
For more information on Verizon’s 
international activities, please visit 
http://www.verizon.com/international.
CR P47…Improving Lives
Verizon Provides 
$1 .2 Million to Fund 
Literacy and Technology 
Centers in Puerto Rico
To help improve literacy and reduce school dropout rates in 
Puerto Rico, the Verizon International Foundation provided a 
$1.2 million grant to establish literacy and technology centers 
at 10 public schools ranked low in academic achievement. 
ASPIRA, Inc. de Puerto Rico, a nonproﬁ  t organization devoted 
to education and leadership development in Puerto Rico and 
the United States, will establish and oversee the centers. 
“The schools were selected because they need the support of 
a comprehensive computer and literacy program to improve 
academic performance and prevent at-risk students from 
dropping out,” said Hilda V. Maldonado, executive director 
for ASPIRA. According to Puerto Rico’s Department of 
Education, nearly half of all students drop out of school before 
reaching the 12th grade, up by 6.1 percent since 1999. 
“Higher literacy rates mean stronger communities, economic 
growth and a skilled work force,” said Daniel Petri, president, 
Verizon International. “Verizon is committed to supporting 
programs that use technology to improve education.”   
The new facilities, known as Verizon-ASPIRA Literacy and 
Technology Centers, are located at one school in each of 
Puerto Rico’s 10 school regions. Verizon’s grant paid for 
new computers at each center, software and hardware, and 
the salaries of an administrative coordinator and tutors in 
computer science, mathematics, English and Spanish.
   
  
Verizon 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report
Photo Credits
Above is a list of the employees whose photos appear in this report. These individuals represent 
all Verizon employees — who work to make a difference for our customers and communities.CR P48Verizon
Making Connections…
COVER
FOLD OUT
INSIDE COVER
PAGE 2
PAGE 9
PAGE 10
PAGE 11PAGE 12
PAGE 13
PAGE 14
PAGE 17
PAGE 18
PAGE 20
PAGE 22
PAGE 23
PAGE 24
PAGE 26
PAGE 32
PAGE 38
PAGE 39
PAGE 45
INSIDE BACK 
COVER
Deborah LaBoo
Analyst-Legal Support
Administration
Joseph P . McGrath 
Manager-Sales Support 
Verizon Direct Sales
Travis Paup 
Cable Splicing Technician
National Operations –  
Potomac, Customer 
Operations, BMET
Anthony Lalande 
Consultant 
Consumer Sales
Nichelle Adams
Cable Splicing Technician
National Operations –  
Potomac, Customer 
Operations, BMET
George W. Riggins
Director  – Network 
Engineering 
Planning and Capacity 
Management
Eun Young Cho
Representative
Consumer Sales-
Multilingual Center
 
Ivan Seidenberg
Chairman and CEO
Verizon Communications
Travis Paup 
Cable Splicing Technician
National Operations 
– Potomac, Customer 
Operations, BMET,
Craig Meisel 
Cable Splicing Technician
National Operations 
– Potomac, Customer 
Operations, BMET
Heather Stultz 
Senior Sales 
Representative
Verizon Wireless
Julie Lavey 
Services Technician
NSG OperationsDamon Siu 
Representative
Consumer Sales –  
Multilingual Center, and
Virginia Chan
Representative
Consumer Sales –  
Multilingual Center, and 
Kristy Huang 
Representative
Consumer Sales –  
Multilingual Center
Gabe Garza 
Network Specialist -
Network Operations
Customer Service Delivery
Robert Francher
Manager - Network 
Operations 
Customer Service Delivery
James Kevin Lee
Manager  – Network 
Operations 
Customer Service Delivery
Joseph P . McGrath
Manager  – Sales Support
Verizon Direct Sales
Jeffrey Pledger  
(pictured with guide dog 
Vincenzo) 
Specialist  – Web 
Technology 
Telecom Process 
Assurance
Julie Lavey 
Services Technician
NSG Operations
Jimmy Jackson
Regional Safety Manager
Safety Management
Jim Koch 
Cable Splicing Technician
National Operations –  
Potomac, Customer 
Operations, BMET 
Sandi Hall 
Consultant 
Consumer Sales
George W. Riggins
Director  – Network 
Engineering 
Planning and Capacity 
ManagementJohnny Peña
Field Technician
Verizon New York, Inc.,
Karl Conboy 
Field Technician
Verizon New York, Inc.,
Lerone Ault 
Field Technician
Verizon New York, Inc.,
John Sgro 
Senior Staff Consultant
Verizon New York, Inc.,
John Heaney
Field Technician
Verizon New York, Inc., 
Jeb Heaney 
Field Technician
Verizon New York, Inc.
George W. Riggins
Director  – Network 
Engineering 
Planning and Capacity 
Management
 
Eugene Williams
Dirirector  – Network 
Engineering
Network Planning & 
Engineering, NJ
Dinah Lau 
Representative 
Consumer Sales –  
Multilingual Center
Franklin Williams
Field Technician
NSG Operations, 
Customer Operations, 
West Brooklyn
Craig Meisel 
Cable Splicing Technician
National Operations –  
Potomac, Customer 
Operations, BMET
Suzanne Shaw
Manager-Product 
Management/Product 
Development 
LiveSource Product 
ManagementRenee Hicks 
Verizon Retiree and 
Telecom Pioneers 
Volunteer
Kim Wiklund 
Senior Staff Consultant  – 
Regulatory 
State Regulatory,
Gillian Williams
Network Engineer –  
Network Engineering
Northeast Regional 
Engineering,
Charles Wise
Maintenance 
Administrator 
National Operations, 
Customer Response –  
Potomac, VRRC,
Renee Hicks 
Verizon Retiree and 
Telecom Pioneers 
Volunteer ,
Retha Woodberry
Maintenance 
Administrator 
National Operations, 
Customer Response –  
Potomac, VRRC,
Debra Speed
Senior Staff Consultant  – 
Pa Programs
Public & Community 
Affairs,
Deborah LaBoo
Analyst-Legal Support
Administration
Renee Hicks 
Verizon Retiree and 
Telecom Pioneers 
Voluntee r 
Nichelle Adams
Cable Splicing Technician
National Operations –  
Potomac, Customer 
Operations, BMETPAGE 20  
About This Report
 
This report includes information on Verizon’s activities in the areas of economic, environmental and social responsibility. 
The scope of the report covers all of Verizon’s wireline, wireless and international operations. However, the majority of the 
data relates to Verizon’s U.S.– based operations. 
While we have a strong legacy of corporate citizenship, this is the ﬁrst Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report. Over the 
next year, we intend to build on the corporate responsibility platform outlined in this report. We will continue to deploy 
new broadband networks, introduce new services and educate our customers about how our services can connect 
them to their communities and improve their lives. To improve our effectiveness, we will further integrate corporate 
responsibility considerations into decision-making processes and develop corporate responsibility goals to guide our 
performance. We look forward to reporting our progress toward these goals in future reports.
In addition to this printed report, we have created a corporate responsibility website:  http://www.verizon.com/
responsibility. An electronic copy of this report is available via our website. Please visit our website periodically to learn 
more about our corporate responsibility strategy and initiatives, and to e-mail your comments and suggestions.
This report is printed on FSC certiﬁed Mohawk Options, 100% PC White paper. This paper contains 
100% post-consumer recycled ﬁber and is manufactured with wind-generated electricity.  It 
is manufactured in accordance with a Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) pilot program that 
certiﬁes products made with high percentages of post-consumer reclaimed materials.verizon.com/responsibility
© 2004. Verizon. All Rights Reserved