2015 
Corporate 
Responsibility 
SupplementPresident’s letter
Social innovationThe Internet of ThingsEnvironmentProduct responsibilitySupply chainEmployee experienceGovernanceGRI Index24283346535779822015  
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Supplement
Ta b l e
of contents2 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
The power of our technology gives us a 
big responsibility and a big opportunity.  Because our technology can solve critical needs and drive social change, we make 
it our business to use our assets to make 
the world a better place for us, and for future generations. Across all that we do, we work to benefit the communities we serve, starting by being transparent in our business practices, operating with 
integrity while upholding the highest 
ethical standards in all our relationships, and doing everything we can to make the world greener.
Students at Vista Innovation and Design Academy 
in Vista, Calif., are acquiring technology skills needed to succeed in the jobs of the future.
Rose Stuckey Kirk  
Chief Corporate Responsibility Officer & President, Verizon Foundation
President’s 
letter
But we know we must do more than that. 
We must use our resources and expertise to create innovative solutions that help the most vulnerable in our society. 
That’s why our focus is on education. 
We’re investing the majority of our time and energy in education programs that create brighter futures for marginalized youth. We appreciate their great potential to change the world, and we can only 
imagine the breakthroughs they’ll be able 
to make when they have the right tools and opportunities. 
In the pages that follow, you’ll read 
about the work we’ve done to create opportunities for students who lack resources. We’ve reached more than 100,000 so far, and we’re just getting 
started. In the coming years, we’ll reach 
even more communities, equip even  more classrooms with vital technology and help even more children unleash  their true potential.
Also in this report, you’ll see our approach 
to corporate citizenship in our Corporate 
Responsibility Framework. You’ll also 
learn how the power of our technology is driving innovation through what’s known as the Internet of Things. This work includes empowering chronic disease patients with digital tools that help them live healthier lives, as well as creating solutions for our customers to reduce 
their carbon footprint while we’re hard at 
work reducing our own. And, you’ll see the diligence and discipline in measuring our impact every step along the way so that we can continue to refine our efforts to yield meaningful results. You’ll see 
that our work is having a positive impact. 
Every day, in many exciting ways, we are delivering on the promise of the digital world: a brighter future for everyone.3 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Our Corporate Responsibility Framework
Social-impact 
modelLeverage innovative technology to address societal challenges
Benefits to business Create license to operate and freedom to enter new markets
Targeted stakeholder engagement across all focus areas
 
Human rights
Address human rights risks 
associated with information and 
communications technology (ICT) 
products and services 
Supply chain
Address supply chain  
risks that could negatively 
impact VerizonSustainability/  
environment
Address stakeholder 
expectations with respect to 
environmental citizenshipProduct 
responsibility
Address stakeholder 
expectations with respect 
to product responsibilityBenefit to 
society
Solutions that improve 
people’s lives4 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Social 
innovation5 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/educationSocial  
innovation —  
education
When the best 
technologies 
of today  
are available 
to more 
architects  
of tomorrow, 
the future  
gets brighter —  
one student  
at a time.
6 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/educationEvery day, all of us become more digitally connected.
That’s great. The future of technology in America is important to us. 
Our vision is to deliver on the promise of the digital world. It’s why we get up in the morning. 
We’re engineers building the tools to share the world we want to 
live in. The problem is that not everyone has access to these tools, 
and the repercussions are serious. 
We need a new generation of creators and builders if we want to 
live in the future we’re imagining. That’s why we’re investing our engineering expertise and resources to bring technology and 
innovative learning to communities that might not otherwise have 
the opportunity to explore their full potential. 
Verizon believes that with technology and education, anyone can  
do great things for the world. The underserved communities we  
have worked with have already shown us the power of opportunity 
and access. 
Engineers find a way to fix a problem in a way that lasts. Inspiring 
the future makers and opening their eyes to endless possibilities is how we truly can deliver the promise of a digital world. Te c h 
proficiency is the new literacy. 7 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/educationThe issue  
Lack of access to technology leaves  
too many youths unprepared for future STEM jobs.
We are addressing two factors that,  
when combined, threaten to leave the U.S. 
without enough qualified people to fill the huge and growing demand for workers in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields.
First, millions of school-age children in 
America do not have high-speed Internet service at home, and lower-income and 
minority students are far less likely than 
affluent kids to have it.
<25%
Less than 25 percent 
of students enter STEM 
majors in college
Of the 25 percent that  
enter STEM majors,  
38 percent do not graduate 
with a STEM degree38% 
Our solution 
Deliver technology-based experiential 
learning to increase student engagement and interest in STEM 
We have created signature programs 
in partnership with leading educational 
nonprofits to benefit underserved students in communities across America. These programs give students greater access to technology and opportunities to learn skills such as coding and app development, as well as design thinking, 
collaboration and entrepreneurship.Second, young people are not pursuing 
STEM fields as often as they did in the past. While the education system currently sees enough talent in math and science to 
fill the need for traditional STEM workers, 
less than 25 percent of students are choosing STEM majors in college, and of those that do, 38 percent do not graduate with a STEM degree.
What’s more, women and minorities are 
going into STEM fields even less often 
than young people in general.
At the same time, demand for STEM 
workers is growing fast. STEM employment has grown three times faster than non-STEM employment over the past 10 years — and it’s expected to nearly double non-STEM employment by 
2018. STEM jobs pay better than non-
STEM jobs, with the average salary being 26 percent higher in the STEM field.8 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/education2015 Results
VILS students are improving in areas that pave the way to 
STEM careers. According to their teachers: 
37%
of students were 
better at problem- solving
25%
of students asked more questions 
about STEM careersVerizon Innovative  
Learning Schools
When we started working in underserved schools in 
2012, we recognized that if we could train teachers on how to use smartphones and tablets in the classroom, we could help them change the way they teach and the 
way students learn. That’s how our Verizon Innovative 
Learning Schools (VILS) program began. We worked in partnership with the International Society for Technology in Education (ISTE) to provide teachers professional development on how to effectively integrate technology in the classroom. We started with 12 schools in the 
2012–2013 school year, and added 12 schools the next 
school year. The results of this program have been consistently positive: In year one, students in the VILS program performed better on standardized tests than those in comparison schools by roughly nine percentage points; in year two, VILS students performed better by roughly three percentage points. 
And, they’re more interested in STEM than non-VILS students.
49%
45%76%
71%
Interested in science Interested in math
VILS 
studentsStudents in comparison schools VILS studentsStudents in comparison schools9 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/education66%   
of educators said they collaborated more 
with peers to incorporate mobile technology into their teaching54%   
of educators said they provided students more opportunities to work on projectsExtending  
our reach
Since the fall of 2014, we’ve made the professional 
development that we built in the VILS program widely available to educators across the country through the  
Verizon Mobile Learning Academy. The free, moderated, 
10-week online learning program, delivered in partnership  
with ISTE, offers continuing education units from 
Johns Hopkins University Center for Technology Education.
2015 Results
We exceeded our goal to train educators at 100 schools.Expanding  
the program 
We added eight middle schools to the VILS program in the fall of 2014, and working in partnership with the nonprofit Digital Promise, we provided tablets with two-year data plans to every student and teacher within them. 
In addition, we implemented training to enable meaningful 
learning opportunities in and out of school that leverage mobile technology to prepare students for college and STEM careers. After a successful pilot, we expanded this program to 13 more middle schools in the fall of 2015. 
of participating VILS students 
are eligible to receive free or reduced-cost lunch.
65%10 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/educationVerizon Innovative  
App Challenge
In early 2015, we announced the winners of the third 
Verizon Innovative App Challenge, our nationwide contest for middle- and high-school students. This unique hands-on learning program challenges students to create 
real-world solutions using technology. In the process, 
students learn STEM skills and coding, problem-solving and collaboration — and get a taste of entrepreneurship. 
Ninety student teams were named Best in State, 
24 were named Best in Region and eight were named Best in Nation. National winners received $20,000 for their schools, tablets for every team member 
and the opportunity to work with experts from the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology Media Lab to turn their winning concepts into working apps. 
In the fall of 2015, we launched the fourth App Challenge, 
and we will announce the winners in early 2016. So that even more students get the opportunity to work with technology to create solutions, all the members of Best 
in State teams in 2016 will receive tablets. And, we’ll get 
the public in on the fun by voting for a Fan Favorite from among the Best in State winners. 
Young female entrepreneurs  
do well by doing good
When six girls at Resaca Middle School in Los Fresnos, Texas, noticed how difficult it was for their blind friend to find his way around the school campus, they had an idea. They entered that idea — an app called Hello Navi that 
would help the visually impaired navigate independently 
on school campuses — into the Verizon Innovative App Challenge. Not only did they win $20,000 for their school as a 2014 Best in Nation team, but they also earned a tidy sum for themselves when they sold their app to Visus Technology. This year, Visus purchased Hello Navi 
to broaden and complement its suite of applications 
that will integrate wearable technology into mobile health products.Since 2012:
24,565  
students have 
participated in the App Challenge24   
apps have been developed and placed on a mobile 
app marketplaceThe apps have been 
downloaded at least 
23,500  timesof App Challenge winners were female49%
of winners are likely to pursue STEM careers88%
said the App Challenge confirmed their interest in a STEM career47%2015 Results
Students who participated in the App Challenge showed 
increased interest in technology and tech careers.
11 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/educationMorgan State University
Kentucky State UniversityNorth Carolina A&T
Jackson State UniversityHistorically black colleges and universities (HBCUs)
Minority Male 
Makers
In the summer of 2015, we launched a program 
designed to demonstrate how technology and entrepreneurship education can help young minority men achieve success in school and in 
the jobs of tomorrow. Minority Male Makers, a 
two-year program created in partnership with four historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs), started with summer immersion classes on campus and continued with ongoing mentoring throughout the school year. 
At each HBCU, minority middle-school boys  
learned 3-D Design and printing, coding,  
robotics and entrepreneurship. Mentors were identified and trained by the National CARES Mentoring Movement.2015 Results
Boys in the Minority Male Makers program showed increased interest in STEM.
showed increased interest 
in STEM subjects75%
showed increased interest in STEM careers69%12 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/educationInnovative  
design thinking
To connect more underserved students with coding 
and app development skills, and to introduce them  to entrepreneurship, we teamed up with Arizona  State University on a program for underserved high 
schools. Teachers in the program were provided  
with professional development focused on design thinking, innovation and STEM skill-building. Students were paired with local small businesses to build innovative business solutions and apps to help  the companies attract customers.
A pilot program was launched in the fall of 2014 
serving 355 students and 11 educators in four schools. 
Based on the pilot’s success, four schools were added in the fall of 2015.2014 – 2015 Results
During the pilot phase that ended in 2015:
apps and business plans  
were created 100
of participating students performed better in their subjects overall58%
Based on the 
pilot’s success, 
four schools 
were added in 
the fall of 2015.13 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/educationOur progress
We are building a movement to ignite 
every student’s entrepreneurial spirit, delivering the promise that the digital world holds for them — the promise of a 
brighter future. And we’re meeting and 
exceeding our goals. 
Here is what we said we would do, and the 
progress we made in 2015.
Verizon Innovative 
Learning Schools
Goal: Add 12 underserved middle schools 
to our program 
Progress: We added 13 underserved 
middle schools to the VILS program in 
2015, providing nearly 9,000 students and 
teachers with a tablet and two years of Internet access:
• Washtenaw International Middle 
Academy and Ypsilanti Community Middle School in Ypsilanti, Mich.
• McNair Middle School in College Park, Ga., and Holcomb Bridge Middle School 
in Alpharetta, Ga.
• Edmonds Middle School and Lyman C. 
Hunt Middle School in Burlington, Vt.
• Kalama Intermediate School in Makawao, Hawaii, and Lokelani Intermediate School in Kihei, Hawaii
• Crossroads Middle School, Pathways Middle School and Meridian Middle School in Meridian, Idaho
• Carter Middle School in Strawberry Plains, Tenn., and Bearden Middle School in Knoxville, Tenn.Goal: Publish impact reports from 2014 cohort
Progress: We published impact reports 
from the 2014 cohort and shared results 
with each district.
Goal: Launch a website to share mobile-
technology-implementation best practices with teachers across the country
Progress: Educator-storytellers in the 
VILS schools document best practices and post them on an ongoing basis to the program website.Verizon Mobile 
Learning Academy
Goal: Train teachers in more than  
100 schools on effective mobile-technology implementation
Progress: We exceeded our goal, training 
677 educators across 105 school teams.
14 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/educationSTEM initiatives
Goal: Launch an Introduction to Computer 
Science course in more than 100 U.S. underserved middle schools
Progress: In partnership with Project Lead 
The Way, we launched an Introduction 
to Computer Science course in 152 underserved middle schools, exceeding our goal.
Goal: Expand our STEM initiatives to reach 
under-represented populations such as 
minority males, Native Americans and girls
Progress: We launched a program in 
partnership with four historically black 
colleges and universities that served minority middle-school boys. 
Working with the Bureau of Indian 
Education (BIE) and the Department of Interior (DOI), we launched a program to close the learning gap in the Native American community. More than 740 
Native American students at eight Bureau 
of Indian Education dormitories, where students live while attending public school away from their reservations, are being provided free high-speed wireless service. In addition, we partnered with Boys & Girls Clubs of Indian Country to provide digital 
programming to increase the students’ 
STEM and cultural competency, and with Microsoft to provide tablets.
We also provided middle-school and high-
school girls hands-on coding experience in a year-long program in partnership with Black Girls Code, and continued support 
for a summer immersion program for  
high-school girls in partnership with  Girls Who Code.Verizon Innovative  
App Challenge
Goal: Train 24 regional and national winning teams in the App Challenge to code and publish their app concepts
Progress: We trained 24 teams. Eight 
Best in Nation winners received in-person 
training from experts at the MIT Media Lab to code their apps and upload them to mobile app marketplaces. Sixteen Best in Region teams were provided with resources to help them code and develop their apps.
Goal: Launch the 2015–2016 Verizon 
Innovative App Challenge
Progress: The 2015–2016 App Challenge 
was open for submissions from  August 4, 2015 through November 24, 2015. More than 1,200 app concepts  were submitted, nearly a 10 percent increase over the previous year’s totals.
15 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/education
Minority Male Makers 
Goal: Expand the Minority Male Makers 
program to include eight additional university partners, reaching 800 students
STEM initiatives
Goal: Continue to provide middle-school and high-school students with coding, 3-D 
Design, and entrepreneurial skills training 
in over 300 schools and out-of-school programs
Goal: Pilot hands-on experiential learning 
programs in community locations, such as Verizon retail stores and mobile buses
Goal: Provide the opportunity for 70 high-
school students to intern with VerizonWhat’s next
In 2016, we will reach more schools and students in underserved communities. We’ll provide even more opportunities for students to engage in innovative, 
hands-on learning opportunities with 
technology, both inside and outside of  the classroom. Verizon Innovative 
Learning Schools
Goal: Continue to expand the VILS 
program, adding 25 schools by  September 2016
Verizon Innovative  
App Challenge
Goal: Launch the fifth annual Verizon Innovative App Challenge
16 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/educationReach
Teacher practices changed Student performance improved Student behaviors changed2015 performance dashboard
201544*201432201324201212Verizon Innovative Learning Schools (VILS) 
In 2015, we added 13 schools through our partnership 
with Digital Promise, bringing us to 44* schools:
Outcomes for cohorts 1 and 2
50%of teachers said  
they gave more  
individualized support
46%of teachers said their 
classes were doing more hands-on workAcross four cohorts during the school year that  
began in 2015, there were:
 44  
participating schools
22,070
participating students
1,457
participating teachers65%
of participating VILS students are eligible to receive free orreduced-cost lunch
43%exhibited more  
sophisticated projects  
or products
36%received higher  
scores on classroom assessments
37%improved overall academically37%showed more engagement with  
their subjects
56%showed more proficiency with technology
42%were completing work more promptly* Originally, there were 45 schools. One is no longer participating. 
9,486 participating students 178 participating teachers 23* schools
*  Originally, there were 24 schools. One is no longer participating.17 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/educationVerizon Mobile Learning Academy
App Challenge 
Minority Male MakersOverall STEM88%
Programming56%Science-related ﬁeld71%
Engineering50%
Math50%
Interest in STEM subjects75%
Interest in STEM careers69%% increaseInterest in STEMReach
677
educators44,436
students105
school teams
Percentages of students likely to pursue 
careers in ...7,500
participating students
49% 
of the winners  
were female
8
apps developed
910
downloads of  
winning apps60%
of winners were more interested in computer programming than before they participated
4
HBCUs directed  
programs473
middle-school boys participated582
products developed
100% of participating students demonstrated increased mobile technology proficiency.18 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/healthcareSocial  
innovation —  
healthcare
Chronic 
conditions like 
obesity, high 
blood pressure and diabetes 
are among 
America’s biggest 
healthcare 
challenges.19 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/healthcareThe issue 
As of 2012, about half of American adults, 
roughly 117 million people, had one or more chronic health conditions. And these conditions are costly. The total 
estimated cost of diagnosed diabetes in 
the U.S. in 2012, for example, was $245 billion. Over a quarter of the cost was due to decreased productivity — costs associated with people being absent from or less productive at work or not being 
able to work at all because of diabetes.
For some patients who lack access to 
quality healthcare, chronic conditions can be devastating. It’s these people whose lives can be transformed through the use of technology to provide better access to remote providers, and to give them resources for managing their own health 
and care that’s tailored just for them.
Our solution 
Using mobile 
technology  
to improve health
In 2015, we launched new programs 
and made good progress with existing programs that use mobile technology to improve the health of people who can’t 
always get the healthcare support they 
need. Some are lower-income people struggling with chronic diseases, some are older people isolated due to language or cultural barriers, some live in rural and hard-to-reach areas, and some 
are teenagers living in unstable home 
environments. Through partnerships with community groups, nonprofit healthcare providers and other groups, we’re delivering technology and education to empower these men, women and children to take control of their health.
In one new program, we’re helping 
patients with diabetes in partnership with Baptist Health Foundation in Little 
Rock, Ark. We’ve provided 104 lower-
income, predominantly African-American participants with smartphones connected to devices that track blood sugar. Baptist Health Foundation remotely monitors the participants’ results and follows up when 
readings are out of range. Participants 
also get reminders and disease-specific education support on a regular basis. The program has made a big difference in the lives of some participants. 
Take James Payne, for example. “I just 
didn’t want to face life,” James said, 
thinking back two years, shortly after his 
diagnosis with Type 2 diabetes. “I was by 
We’re delivering  
technology and  
education to  
empower men,  
women and children  
to take control of  
their health.20 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/healthcaremyself with nobody to talk to.” As part 
of the program from Verizon and Baptist Health, James attended group meetings twice a month that taught individuals to 
better manage their diabetes. Through 
these educational sessions, James learned how to take care of himself at home using all the new technologies furnished to him through the program at no cost. He used his new smartphone 
with a diabetes-management app, blood 
pressure cuffs, monitoring devices, scales and a Fitbit to watch his sugar levels, blood pressure and weight every day. And having the support of a group made a dramatic impact on how James views life with diabetes. “You can have diabetes and 
lead a full life,” he said.
In another program, we’re helping elderly 
patients manage dangerously high blood pressure. The patients are Cambodian immigrants who speak very little English. Working with The Children’s Clinic in Long Beach, Calif., we provided 48 patients with tablets equipped with health management software, and created a demonstration 
video in their native Khmer language on 
how to properly take their blood pressure. About halfway through the program, 83 percent of participants have increased adherence to their care plans, 75 percent are able to use technology to manage their 
blood pressure, and 87 percent actually 
have reduced their blood pressure.
In remote, rural areas, and particularly in 
developing countries, chronic conditions can be left untreated. When a case of strep throat, which might otherwise be managed simply with antibiotics, goes untreated, it can turn into Rheumatic 
Heart Disease (RHD). That’s what we’re 
working to prevent in Brazil, with a program we started two years ago with the Washington, D.C.–based Children’s National Medical Center. We supplied tablet devices, Open Video technology, and Terremark Cloud capabilities to local healthcare workers who screen 
children for RHD. Any abnormal results 
are uploaded to the cloud for further assessment by cardiologists at Children’s National in D.C. and the Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais in Brazil. In 2015, we educated 10,205 people 
and screened 6,843 children in Minas 
Gerais, Brazil. Of those screened, 374 children were found to be RHD-positive and are now connected to critical care. Because the pilot showed promise, we expanded it into rural areas of Australia in partnership with South Australian Health 
& Medical Research Institute and with 
Children’s National joining as a consultant. The program is expected to launch in early 2016.In 2015, we screened
6,843 
children in  
Minas Gerais, Brazil.21 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/healthcareChildren’s Health Fund 
Teens without stable homes in San 
Francisco received help in getting active, eating better, controlling asthma and quitting smoking through our 
partnership with the Children’s Health 
Fund. The program used text messages to encourage healthier behavior. One teen — we’ll call her “Pamela” to protect her privacy — is a great example. A petite brunette with pink painted fingernails, 
Pamela looks like a typical 17-year-old, 
her phone an ever-present accessory. But unlike most teens, for Pamela, the smartphone is much more than a luxury item. It is in many ways a lifeline to support and stability, two things that have never been a constant in her life. She 
moved from Daly City to San Bruno, Calif., 
when she was 10 years old. She’s now in 11th grade. Her home, rather than being a place of refuge, is a chaotic environment with an absent mother and little in the way of parental comfort or guidance. 
On the other end of Pamela’s digital lifeline 
is a team of professionals who have spent 
hours listening to her, learning about her life, and helping her learn how to survive. Three times a week she has a text conversation with health professionals at the Teen Health Van, a children’s health services clinic on wheels that serves 
at-risk and homeless youth in the San 
Francisco Bay area. In addition to getting free, comprehensive healthcare from the van, Pamela also participates in a new, pioneering texting program from Verizon. The program sends patients empowering tips and information about health topics of their choice through an interactive texting game. Through these games, Pamela is learning about digestive health. Use of these simple texting games is already 
having an effect. “Your body talks to you, 
and you can choose to listen or not,” said Pamela, who likes the practicality of the information she gets from the program. She said the app is easy to use and has helped her make changes in her life, like improving her relationships with others 
and giving her tools that make it easier  
to talk about her problems.
22 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/healthcareOur progress  
Last year, we said we would expand our 
work in healthcare to help tackle heart disease, diabetes, obesity and respiratory 
conditions in underserved communities. 
Following are the goals we set for 2015 and the progress we’ve made toward achieving them.
Goal: Continue our commitment 
to children’s health through three partnerships that use technology to help underserved children manage their health: 
an obesity program in Miami, an asthma-
management program in Boston, and an asthma, obesity, nutrition and smoking-cessation program in San FranciscoProgress: We continue to support children’s health by providing youth with 
technology, training, access to medical 
professionals and other resources to help them lead a better life.
• In Miami, in partnership with Children’s 
Health Fund, we launched an obesity-intervention program that uses mobile devices to grant low-income children 
access to dietitians and other medical-
subspecialty providers. Ninety-one percent of participating patients kept at least half of their telehealth appointments.
• In San Francisco, also in partnership with Children’s Health Fund, we 
continued to support an obesity, 
asthma, nutrition and smoking-cessation program geared toward vulnerable adolescents. • And in Boston, our partner Boston Children’s Hospital completed the 
planning and creation of an app that  
will allow patients, their parents and school nurses to remotely input data  on asthma symptoms and care, and deliver essential information to providers to improve preparedness  
for in-person visits.
Goal: Conduct two programs addressing 
the high rates of diabetes in multicultural populations: a program in Arkansas targeting low-income African-Americans, and a program in Texas targeting low-income Hispanics. Both of these populations are disproportionately 
impacted by diabetes.
Three partnerships 
that use technology to help underserved children manage their health:
Asthma-management 
program in Boston
Asthma, obesity and smoking-cessation program in San FranciscoObesity program  in Miami23 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/healthcare
Progress: We launched two programs in 
2015, in partnership with Joslin Diabetes Center in Texas and Baptist Health Foundation in Arkansas. In the Latino 
rural community of Edinburg, Texas, with 
Joslin Diabetes Center’s Latino Diabetes Initiative (LDI) and Doctors Hospital at Renaissance (DHR), we are providing  48 Latino diabetes patients with telehealth services, including video consultations, 
text reminders, remote education and 
nutritional counseling via smartphones and tablets. Patients’ activity levels, blood sugar and dietary habits are being tracked with Fitbits and other technologies. In Little Rock, Ark., we’re working with   Baptist Health Foundation to help  104 adults, most of whom are African- American, use smartphones and connected monitoring devices to  
better manage their diabetes.
Goal: Support the ability of seniors to 
remain in their own homes by rolling out three additional programs targeting older adults. These programs demonstrate the use of technology by senior populations to digitally manage disease and ultimately 
“age in place.” 
Progress: We launched three programs 
helping older adults to use technology to better manage their health and ultimately “age in place.”• Our Digital Aging Mastery Program, launched in February 2015 in partnership with the National Council on Aging (NCOA), is showing that older adults’ 
use of mobile technology can improve 
their quality of life and help them age in place. We provided a diverse group of 226 older adults with tablets that have an older-adult-friendly interface, curated content, age-appropriate training, and 
ongoing peer support provided at senior 
centers. So far, program participants have nearly tripled their technology use, and they are doing more lifelong learning and engaging more socially than before starting the program.24 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/healthcare• In partnership with Morristown Medical 
Center, we launched a program in November that provides remote monitoring of congestive-heart-failure 
patients through a topical patch and 
mobile app technology and tablets. Live monitoring allows medical teams to identify patients who have worsening conditions and make immediate adjustments to treatment, avoiding 
medical complications and hospital 
readmissions.
• In partnership with Duke University, we launched an mHealth program for patients with Peripheral Artery Diseases.  Patients are provided with smartphones and remote monitoring (of their exercise, blood pressure and sugar 
levels) as well as educational content 
they can access through smartphones.Goal: Address the disparity in 
healthcare for rural populations by launching a program serving low-income diabetic populations in rural Georgia
Progress: In partnership with the 
National Rural Health Association 
(NRHA), we launched a program in July 2015 that provides patients with resources and technology to self-manage their diabetes. Local community health workers in Murray County and Whitfield County, Ga., are tracking 121 
participants’ blood sugar levels and 
physical activity.
What’s next
Goals for 2016
We will continue partnerships that help older adults, youth and underserved populations better manage their medical conditions through technology.
We will continue to track and report on 
program outcomes, demonstrating  how technology can positively impact patients’ healthcare.
25 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/healthcareThe Children’s Clinic
Providing older Cambodian patients who have hypertension with 
tablets, health-monitoring equipment
Children’s Health Fund
Using secure texting and telemedicine to improve health behaviors for at-risk youthChildren’s National Medical Center 
Using technology and the cloud to educate and screen children in remote rural areas of Brazil for rheumatic heart disease (RHD)2015 performance dashboard
10,205children educated 
80%children demonstrated increased knowledge
6,843children screened 
374children tested  
positive for RHD75%
of participating patients understood how to use  
the provided technology  
to manage their disease
83%
of participating patients showed increased adherence to their care plans
San Francisco Miami
Patients kept at least half their 
telehealth appointments
Patients using the app/
Fitbit 3X a week91%
61%48 patients  
participating
1,309 patients  
participating87%
of participating patients showed reduced blood pressure
100%
of those enrolled in the healthy eating  
and exercise program80%
of those enrolled in the asthma program100%
of those enrolled in the smoking-cessation programPatients still enrolled after  
3 ½ months:26 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/hopelineSocial  
innovation —   
domestic  
violence  
prevention
Help for 
domestic 
violence 
survivors27 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/hopelineOur impactCollected nearly  
700,000  
mobile phones in 2015Donated nearly  
$7 million  
in cash grants to nonprofits 
that support domestic violence–
prevention initiatives in 2015
Donated more than   
14,000   
mobile phones with voice and text-
messaging service for use by victims and survivors in 2015Since 2001, more than  
12 million   
mobile phones have been collected
T aking action 
against 
domestic 
violence
We have a long-standing commitment 
to helping those affected by domestic violence, a national problem that deeply affects our communities. 
We are working to make our assets —   
our network and technology, as well  
as our people —  part of the solution.
Survivors of domestic violence typically can’t use their old mobile devices once they’ve left their abusers. Verizon’s HopeLine program helps them by collecting mobile devices, batteries, 
chargers and accessories that are no 
longer used but still in good condition,  and turning them into valuable resources for nonprofit organizations and agencies that support domestic violence  victims and survivors nationwide.This year, we continued to collect and donate phones through the HopeLine Program and to support domestic violence–prevention organizations and agencies with cash grants. During October, in honor of Domestic Violence 
Awareness Month, Verizon — through its 
HopeLine program — donated $1 to the National Domestic Violence Hotline for every purple accessory purchased (up to $100,000). We also supported the Joyful Heart Foundation with a $100,000 
donation as part of our promotion of the 
new HTC bundle at WalMart.
One of our goals is to raise awareness 
about domestic violence issues, and in 2015, we had help from several powerful spokespeople. Pittsburgh Steelers cornerback William Gay brought his own story to our campaign, recounting how 
his own mother was killed by an abusive 
partner. “That’s why I love sports so dearly, because it helped me go in the right direction and gave me the platform I have today to share my mother’s story,” he told People magazine in April 2015. “I want 
people out there to know that someone in the NFL has been that child who lost their mother and is willing to do anything to end domestic violence.” The actress Uzo Aduba, from Orange Is the New Black, 
and pop star Christina Aguilera, who was affected by domestic violence as a child, were also spokespeople for the program. 
What’s next
Children who witness domestic violence can suffer lifelong negative consequences, including learning challenges. In 2016, we will pilot efforts 
aimed at connecting these kids with 
early-intervention programs to foster increased hope and improved academic performance, and to create a pathway toward a brighter future. 28 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainabilityThe Internet 
of Things29 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainabilityThe Internet 
of Things 
creates 
even more opportunities. 
In California, a vineyard uses sensor  
data and analytics to conserve water  
and energy and monitor crop growth, 
resulting in increased and consistently 
predictable crop yields. Across the country 
in New Jersey, skin patches track an elderly man’s blood pressure, sending alerts to his doctor when his health appears to be worsening. And in North Carolina, city managers are able to cut 
energy use dramatically by integrating 
real-time data on power demand with conservation education. 
These are examples of how the Internet 
of Things (IoT) is revolutionizing the way people live and work, integrating wireless connectivity with cloud and data analytics to deliver practical solutions to everyday 
problems. Verizon has taken the lead in exploring this technology’s capabilities 
to address societal challenges, and in 
the process facilitating smarter, more 
sustainable communities. Our new IoT platform, ThingSpace, creates an environment for innovation, allowing developers to create applications, customers to manage devices, partners to market their services, and Verizon to 
launch integrated vertical solutions.
IoT is more than an exciting business 
opportunity. New technologies will give consumers, communities and companies the tools to consume resources more wisely, educate students more effectively, and keep people safer, healthier and more 
productive in a digitally integrated age. 
We believe IoT technology is an important element in meeting the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal #11: Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.
Global eSustainability 
Initiative (GeSI)
Realizing the potential of the IoT will 
require collaboration and ideas from many different sources. Verizon is proud to be part of the Global eSustainability 
Initiative (GeSI), an organization that 
brings together the resources of companies and nongovernmental organizations to understand the role that Internet communications and broadband technology can play in fostering a low-
carbon, more sustainable global economy.
The UN’s Sustainable  
Development Goal #11: 
Make cities inclusive, 
safe, resilient and  
sustainableSMART er 2030 report: 
demonstrating 
the value of IoT to 
sustainability and business
In June 2015, GeSI released a report, 
SMARTer 2030 , that quantifies the 
tremendous impact that Internet communications technology can  
have on the environment and the 
economy, including:
• Enabling a 20 percent reduction of 
global CO₂e emissions by 2030
• Connecting 2.5 billion more people to the “knowledge economy” by 2030
• Giving 1.6 billion more people access  to healthcare
• Providing 500 million people with 
education through e-learning tools
• Boosting agricultural yields by  
30 percent, via smart agriculture 30 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainabilityWhat is an IoT solution?
Data processed and transmitted 
by a connected deviceData passed over networks Information stored in the cloudSense Transport Store
Insights extracted and presented Alerts sent to people, systems or devices to take actionData exchanged with other systems, monetized and 
enriched with third-party dataAnalyze Share Control
In 2015, Verizon completed a three-year partnership with Pecan Street Inc., a nonprofit 
research and development organization headquartered at the University of Texas at Austin. Together, we connected 140 low-income apartments in Austin with home energy-management solutions. We found that when participants received increased access 
to technology, via tablets and access to a mobile app that monitored energy use, they 
consumed less energy. This suggests that under reasonable circumstances — that is, when temperatures are moderate — renters who have access to technology and appropriate training will modify their behavior to reduce consumption.
31 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainabilityVerizon offers 
products that  
leverage the IoT .
Innovation and collaboration among 
companies like Verizon and governmental agencies, community organizations and nonprofits will make the economy more 
efficient, and we are already working on a 
number of these exciting initiatives.
Smart Grid: Verizon Grid Wide , launched 
in the summer of 2015, is a 4G LTE–
enabled, cloud-hosted platform that 
combines smart metering, demand 
response, meter data management, and distribution monitoring and control in an all-in-one solution.Vehicles : 
• hum by Verizon is a smart car platform that can be quickly and easily installed in most cars after purchase.  
• Networkfleet , our wireless telematics 
product, gives fleet managers GPS and engine-performance information on each of their cars and trucks, helping them plan more efficient routes, improve maintenance and foresee mechanical breakdowns — saving time, mileage  
and fuel.
Smart Cities : Verizon’s Smart Cities 
technology can make whole cities more 
efficient through data-driven management of energy and water use, traffic flow, parking capacity and outdoor lighting.
Click here for more information on 
Verizon’s IoT solutions.
We’re making  
an impact.
This year, we engaged the well-respected nonprofit Carbon Trust to review the model we use to calculate the carbon- reduction value that Verizon products and 
services deliver to our customers. 
The Carbon Trust updated some key 
assumptions in our model to be consistent with the SMARTer2030 report as well as other recent research. The result 
is that — despite an increase in the 
number of Verizon products enabling our customers to reduce their carbon footprints — the total carbon savings for 2015 are significantly less compared to what we reported last year.
The major changes in assumptions we 
made this year include: 
Telecommuting•  Reduced total number of 
telecommuters (people working from home) and average number of days worked from home based on new U.S. Department of Labor statistics
Telematics
•  Reduced the assumptions on fuel 
savings from vehicle telematics 
based on our customers’ real-world experience with our Networkfleet product32 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainabilityTotal gross 2015 CO ₂e avoidance  
enabled by Verizon
4.7M — 7.3M% of total U.S. annual  
carbon emissions
0.09% — 0.14%Summary of 2015 CO₂e reductions enabled by 
Verizon solutions
Benefit  
category Solution Metric2015 CO₂e avoided 
(metric tons)
Travel 
substitutionTelecommuting # of miles  
reduced
(avoided 
gallons of gas 
consumed)Minimum Maximum
3.45M 5.15M
Transportation
 Telematics  
(Networkfleet, 
Trimble, others)# of miles reduced(avoided gallons of gas consumed)Minimum Maximum
0.52M 0.95M
Buildings
 Intelligent 
building management# of kWhs reducedMinimum Maximum
0.0026M 0.010M
Power grid
 Smart meters 
and demand response# of kWhs reduced  
(reduced T&D losses, lower peak demand and energy efficiency)Minimum Maximum
0.78M 1.19M
The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is equivalent to taking more than
1 million cars  
off the road.Intelligent Building Management
•  Assumptions did not change for  
this category.
Smart Meters and Demand Response
•  Assumptions for demand response did 
not change. 
•  Decreased percentage savings of household energy from the use  of smart meters, as well as the  method for counting the number  of smart meters
This year, we gained a better 
understanding of how our customers 
use our IoT services to deploy smart 
meter technology. Even though the number of active meters on our network increased by more than 1 million units in 2015, the ratio used to calculate the carbon savings was reduced, resulting in a significant 
decrease in total carbon avoided.
The table shows the results in comparison 
to the U.S. carbon footprint.
Overall, our IoT products and services are 
delivering increasing carbon-reduction value to our customers. We are committed to updating the model we use to calculate the value to be in line with the most recent 
research, and to report our progress in a 
transparent way.33 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http://www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainabilityEnvironment34 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
Sustainable 
solutions 
for Verizon 
and our customers 
A small business uses data to manage 
its fleet of trucks more efficiently, cutting fuel costs and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. A customer replaces an aging 
set-top box with one that is more energy-
efficient, saving money and reducing his environmental footprint. A group of Verizon coworkers organizes a drive to recycle used phones, computers and  other technology products, providing 
people throughout the office with a more 
sustainable e-waste disposal option. At every level of Verizon — from our broadest strategies to the way we operate our business, to our products and services,  to the way we live and work as individuals — we seek to minimize 
environmental impact.
We have made 
two important 
commitments 
to CDP and We Mean Business:
To report climate change 
information in 
mainstream reports as a 
fiduciary dutyTo engage 
responsibly in 
climate policyA new public 
commitment to climate 
change mitigation
This year, Verizon signed the American 
Business Act on Climate Pledge , joining 
153 other companies that have signed on to support clean energy, reduce waste 
and reduce environmental footprints. 
We also committed to CDP and  
We Mean Business, a coalition of organizations working with thousands of the world’s most influential businesses 
and investors, to publicly show our 
support for a low-carbon economy. A connected world is a more sustainable world. Information and communications technology (ICT) is essential to reducing global carbon emissions. The GeSI Mobile 
Carbon Impact report found that mobile 
technology is already reducing global carbon emissions by 180 million tons  per year and that this reduction will  grow threefold over the next five years  to about 500 million tons annually.
We continue to challenge ourselves  
to become more energy- and carbon-
efficient even as we grow. Verizon  has pledged to reduce our carbon intensity — the amount of carbon our business emits divided by the number  of terabytes of data we transport over  our networks — by 50 percent over  
our 2009 baseline by 2020.35 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
Emission profile (CO2e metric tons) CO2e per terabyte reduction over 
the 2009 baseline
341,188 
5,452,013 145,894 
Vehicle fuelsElectricity and other indirect sources
Building and other fuels  6%
2%
92%2009
Baseline2010
18%
29% 31%40% 40%
50%2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
Goal
Emissions reductions
More than 90 percent of Verizon’s 
carbon emissions comes from the electricity we use to power our networks. These networks are growing fast, and 
that’s good; they create powerful new 
opportunities to connect people and use resources more efficiently.
Our challenge, however, is to continue 
to grow while making our networks more carbon-efficient, and ultimately to de-couple carbon from our growth. 
Since 2009, we have reduced our 
carbon intensity by roughly 40 percent. We’ve done this through data center improvements, copper-to-fiber migrations, green energy investments, building improvements and changes in fleet operations.
One way we reduce emissions is by 
making our cooling systems more 
efficient with economizers. Economizers bring outside air into the HVAC systems when it is cooler outside than inside; this reduces the amount of time that the cooling system’s compressor has to operate and decreases energy use. In 
2015, we installed 6,780 new economizers, 
bringing the total in use to 17,387 units. By using economizers, Verizon has reduced electrical consumption by an estimated 112 million kilowatt-hours and CO₂e emissions by 77,000 metric tons.Ernst & Young provided independent external assurance on our 2014 Scope 1, 2 and 3 (exclusively corporate travel) greenhouse gas emissions and carbon intensity.  
Its assurance report can be read here .  
For more information, please refer to our 
GHG Emissions Reporting Standards.
We are currently undergoing independent 
external assurance on our 2015 Scope 1, 2 and 3 (exclusively corporate travel) greenhouse gas emissions and carbon 
intensity and will report the results in 
our 2016 CDP Investor Response and corporate responsibility website when they become available later this year.36 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
Emissions by Scope (CO₂e metric tons)
0 1,000,000 2,000,000 3,000,000 4,000,000 5,000,000 6,000,000201420132012 512,804 
 5,342,766 
 54,172 
 438,414 
 5,047,406 
 57,213 
 487,082 
 5,452,013 
 43,987 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 3
2012 2013 2014Year-over-year 
change
Scope 1 512,804 438,414 487,082 11.10%
Scope 2 5,342,766 5,047,406 5,452,013 8%
Total Scope 1 and 2 5,855,570 5,485,820 5,939,095 8.30%
Scope 3 54,172 57,213 43,987 -23.10%37 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
Fuel consumption 
(1,000 gallons)Fleet efficiency
Our vehicle fleet offers us one of our 
biggest opportunities for efficiency improvements.
We’ve started by reducing the number 
of trips our drivers have to take — by 
offering user-friendly installation and troubleshooting tools that make it easy for our customers to solve their technology challenges without a visit from a Verizon technician. And because our network is so reliable, there are fewer issues to fix in the 
first place.When we do send vehicles out on the 
road, we help drivers conserve fuel with Networkfleet, our telematics product for fleet management. This system helps 
managers keep trucks operating at peak 
efficiency and gives drivers tips on saving fuel — like shutting off the engine when stopped for longer periods. By the end of 2015, 28,974 of the vehicles in our internal fleet were equipped with Networkfleet.
The end result: Year after year, our fleet 
uses less fuel.
2013
2014
201535,853
34,302
32,08038 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
Winning the Battle  
of the Buildings
The ENERGY STAR Battle of the 
Buildings encourages friendly competition among organizations as they measure, track and work 
to improve their buildings’ monthly 
energy and water consumption. Verizon entered 38 buildings in the 2014 contest: Nine achieved awards for a 20 percent or greater energy improvement, and the tenth improved 
by 19.9 percent.
The Verizon store in Inglewood, 
Calif., won the top prize in the Retail category with a 46.5 percent reduction in energy use, topping 232 other retail buildings. Two more Verizon stores joined Inglewood in the Top 10 in the Energy Reduction 
category: Montclair, Calif., and 
Arvada, Colo.
We entered the 2015 Battle of the 
Buildings with the goal to be a top performer among more than 6,500 competitors nationwide. At the midpoint, we had two buildings with a 
nearly 20 percent average reduction 
in water use. Final results will be released in the second quarter  of 2016.Energy 
management
Renewables
Over the past three years, Verizon has 
made a major push to incorporate green energy — such as solar and fuel-cell technology — into our facilities. In 2015, 
we completed the installation of two 
green energy projects: a 1,589 kilowatt solar parking canopy and an 800 kilowatt fuel-cell system. These two additions bring our total green energy investment between 2013 and 2015 to more than 
24 megawatts installed.
ENERGY ST AR and 
LEED certification
Just how green are Verizon’s buildings? 
Green enough to be named an EPA ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year for three years in a row. We seek ENERGY 
STAR certification at 100 percent of our 
eligible retail stores.
Most of our ENERGY STAR–certified 
stores are equipped with LED lighting, energy management systems, and time-
controlled heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning units.
Goal: Gain EPA ENERGY STAR 
certification for all eligible retail stores  in 2015
Progress: Verizon reached a total of 189 
ENERGY STAR certifications in 2015 
at retail stores, equal to 100 percent of 
our eligible stores in the fourth quarter. Verizon has earned 206 ENERGY STAR certifications in total, including offices and distribution centers.
What’s next: In 2016, Verizon plans to 
certify 100 percent of eligible buildings, including retail stores, office buildings  
and central offices.
39 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
Goal: Employees will reduce 8 million 
pounds of greenhouse gas emissions during the 2015 ENERGY STAR Change the World campaign, which runs Earth Day 
to Earth Day each year.
Progress: In the 2014 campaign (which 
ran April 2014–April 2015), we challenged our employees to reduce a total of 5.2 million pounds of greenhouse gas emissions in their homes. We exceeded the pledge amount, reaching 293 percent 
of the goal and reducing more than 
15 million pounds of greenhouse gas emissions.
The 2015 Change the World campaign 
kicked off on Earth Day, April 22, 2015, and we set a goal for our employees to reduce an additional 8 million pounds 
of greenhouse gas emissions in their 
homes. As of December 14, 2015, we’d reached 123  percent of the pledged goal, 
saving more than 10 million pounds of greenhouse gas emissions.
Goal: Earn LEED (Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design) certification 
for 225 retail stores by the end of 2015
Progress: By the end of 2015, 289 
of our retail stores had earned LEED certification.
Earth Hour
On March 28, 2015, Verizon observed Earth Hour by dimming the lights at nearly 500 of our buildings in 38 countries and territories around the world, totaling 
approximately 25 million square feet 
of real estate. This annual event brings 
together individuals, companies and other organizations to raise awareness around resource use and conservation. 
Green Team members were amongst the 
6,927 participating Verizon employees in 27 countries and territories.
Smart technology 
making our data 
centers more efficient
Data centers are the backbone of our 
communications network, providing reliable access to the Internet and wireless service for our customers. Yet data centers use 
significant amounts of power. By making 
them more efficient, we can reduce our environmental footprint.In 2015, 87 Verizon data center sites, including 84 in the U.S. and three overseas, employed Vigilent energy management technologies to manage 
power use. These systems consist of 
hundreds of wireless temperature sensors connected by a network to software that continually optimizes energy use. Every day, minute by minute, information about environmental conditions in each facility feeds into the system. The 
system then analyzes and fine-tunes its 
recommendations for power consumption.  
These systems are designed to help us 
use only as much energy as we need to maintain our network in top condition, helping optimize our energy efficiency.40 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
Commuting 
Our employees are reducing their 
personal energy consumption by biking to work, sharing rides and using greener technologies.
2015 was Verizon’s third year participating 
in the Department of Energy’s Workplace Charging Challenge focused on installing electric vehicle (EV) charging stations for employees. We’ll be expanding EV charging for employees, customers and fleet vehicles to 50 total locations 
by 2018.
Goal: Expand the employee electric 
vehicle charging program to 15 locations by the end of 2015
Progress: We installed EV charging 
stations at eight new locations in 2015, bringing our total to 16 employee locations.Verizon partnered with Zimride by Enterprise to develop a carpool  program for employees, free of charge. Zimride is an online ride-matching service 
that connects drivers and passengers 
heading to the same destination, helping facilitate a sustainable transportation-management solution.
Since the official launch in September, 
the program has grown to almost 100 administrative locations across the U.S., 
attracting over 500 participants in just a 
few short months. Through this program, Verizon employees have been able to reduce their personal vehicle use by over 90k miles and avoid over 70k lbs. of carbon emissions so far.
The Green Team’s Bike to Work program 
encouraged 968 Verizon employees in 21 
countries to pedal to the office. In 2015, Verizon employees drove 914,471 fewer miles by biking to work.Waste & water
We understand that our products are a part of our environmental footprint. We’re taking steps to reduce waste and be more environmentally responsible with our 
products, equipment and paper use.
Environmental notices
In 2015, Verizon received 72 notices 
regarding compliance with state and local environmental regulations. Most were for record-keeping or other minor issues and 
did not affect the environment. Verizon is 
taking steps to address the notices.
Giving our customers 
sustainable choices
How environmentally friendly is your mobile 
device? You can find out by reviewing its Underwriters Laboratory Environment (ULE) certification on our product pages.
Underwriters Laboratory has been 
evaluating factors including energy use, manufacturing processes, raw materials, 
packaging and product performance to 
rate mobile devices for sustainability. Customers who know how their devices rank are empowered to make choices that reduce their environmental impact.
41 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
Goal: Ensure that 50 percent of postpaid 
devices and 25 percent of prepaid devices receive ULE certification
Progress: We exceeded these goals.  
72 percent of retail mobile products have 
been ULE-certified. Moreover, 65 percent of those products attained platinum certification.
Sustainable packaging
Verizon strives to reduce, reuse and recycle packaging to reduce impact on the environment. We made significant progress toward our goals:
Understanding packaging’s 
environmental impact
Goal: Compile data on the environmental 
impact of all packaging for smartphones, tablets, basic phones, jetpacks, connected devices and home service devicesProgress: We continued to collect and analyze packaging sustainability data through our established packaging 
scorecard tool and process for Verizon-
branded products:
• We reached 93 percent compliance 
with four of the five Cellular Telephone Industry Association (CTIA) goals on all postpaid packaging (Apple products not included): use of non petroleum-based 
inks; using less than 10 percent volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in finishes; label packaging with international symbols for recycling; using self-sealing tab lockboxes and water-based adhesives.
• We reduced the environmental impact 
of devices, including the Samsung Note 
4 device, by packaging them in smaller boxes made entirely of paperboard rather than plastic.Green packaging for prepaid 
devices and accessories
Goal: Continue to report the use of 
recycled paper content or paper content from responsible sources for all Verizon-branded accessory packaging
Progress: In 2015, packaging for all 
Verizon-branded prepaid devices and accessories used materials sourced from sustainably managed forests and land, as certified by the Forest 
Stewardship Council (FSC). 
Labels that help  
consumers recycle
Goal: Introduce a standardized labeling 
system to clearly communicate recycling instructions to the public
Progress: The How2Recycle labeling 
system, introduced in 2015 for  
Verizon-branded prepaid devices, raises awareness about how to recycle packaging and encourages consumers to do their part. We added a How2Recycle label to three postpaid devices that are packaged with multiple materials, to help 
customers recycle each element properly.
42 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
Paper
Verizon looks for ways to reduce our 
impact through sustainable sourcing —  for example, by buying paper made partly from recycled materials — and by cutting 
back on the unnecessary use of paper. 
We have reduced the amount of material 
printed for customer orders by 24 percent from the 2014 baseline. For 2015, this savings represented approximately  
127 tons of paper — or the equivalent of 
approximately 2,500 trees.
You can read more about our policies on 
paper here .
Goal: First, we have pledged to make  
sure that at least 50 percent of the paper 
we buy every year includes 10 percent post-consumer waste (PCW), meaning that at least 10 percent of it is made  from materials that have been used  and recycled.Progress: In 2014, we exceeded this goal with over 53 percent of our sourced paper including at least 10 percent PCW content. 
Goal: Second, we committed that, by 2017,  
90 percent of the paper Verizon 
sources will be certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) as having been manufactured in an environmentally friendly, socially responsible and economically viable manner
Progress: We made important progress in 
2014, when over 83 percent of our paper 
met this goal.
We are calculating our 2015 progress now.
e-Waste
Verizon aims to reduce our e-waste by 
reusing or recycling phones, set-top boxes and other products so that they don’t end up in landfills. Our goal is not just to recycle used products, but also to 
refurbish them so that they can be used 
again. We also remove, refurbish and redistribute Fios set-top boxes, sending them out to new customers in good-as-new condition so that the used boxes don’t contribute to solid waste.
Goal: Recycle 90 million pounds of 
Verizon assets between 2014 and 2016
Progress: We recycled 40.7 million 
pounds of Verizon e-waste in 2015, bringing our total for 2014–2015 to 83.2 million pounds recycled.
We encourage other companies  
and individuals to recycle by holding recycling rallies in communities across the 
U.S. In 2015, we held 42 recycling rallies 
and office supply swaps. Through these events, we gathered 264,702 pounds of material for recycling, enough to offset 413 tons of CO2e emissions.of the paper we buy  
every year includes 10% 
post-consumer waste. At least  50  %43 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
Goal: Collect 2 million pounds of e-waste 
by the end of 2015 (since 2010)
Progress: Through the recycling rallies, 
we surpassed our five-year goal by 
collecting 2.17 million pounds of e-waste. 
We have started working towards a new goal of recycling 4 million pounds of e-waste by 2020.
Recycling
In 2015, we recycled more than  98 million pounds of combined batteries, paper, cardboard, telecommunications equipment and other items.
Managing our impact means making  
sure that the lead acid batteries we use  to serve our customers and ensure network reliability are recycled properly.
Our practices for recycling these 
batteries exceed regulatory mandates. Verizon sends materials for recycling to approved facilities in the U.S. or Canada. 
These facilities are audited at least 
every five years. In addition, we require suppliers to send their used batteries to approved recycling facilities that meet Verizon’s Environmental, Health and Safety Standards.
Device recycling
Verizon is working to keep our customers’ used mobile devices out of landfills.
Goal: Recycle 37 percent of used mobile 
devices
Progress: In 2015, we had a 33 percent 
device recycling rate.100 percent  
landfill avoidance
Through our return-to-customer, return-
to-market, and recycling programs, Verizon channels all used wireless devices to destinations other than landfills. It’s 
important to note that while landfill 
diversion is our goal for each used device as a whole, some subcomponents of these devices may be consumed during 
the repair and refurbishment processes.
2015 recycled 
materials (pounds)
Lead acid batteries  8,529,686
Other batteries  98,852
Paper/cardboard 11,948,840
Telecoms equipment 32,225,373
Municipal recycling 45,558,000
Grand total 98,360,751
NFL partnership
Through our partnership with the NFL, 
Verizon takes advantage of the popularity of one of the world’s most widely watched sporting events — the Super Bowl — to 
help reach our sustainability goals.
In connection with Super Bowl 49, we 
held a recycling rally in Phoenix, Ariz., attracting 350 participants and collecting nearly 24,000 pounds of e-waste.
We also used Super Bowl 49 as an 
opportunity to make the world a little 
greener through six different tree-planting events (two in 2014, four in 2015), establishing more than 160 new trees. And in April 2015, we went to San Francisco 
to plant more trees in celebration of the 
upcoming Super Bowl 50 in the Bay Area.
Through our partnership with American 
Forests, we sponsored the planting of a total of nearly 19,000 trees during 2015, with an additional 21,000 trees being planted in early 2016 in support of our 
Super Bowl partnership.
Our goal for 2016 is to sponsor the 
planting of 50,000 trees.44 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
Water
Global demand for water is growing  
as populations increase. Verizon is doing our part to conserve water by understanding and managing our 
consumption of this precious resource.  
In 2014, Verizon used approximately  
3.1 billion gallons of water.What’s next
We are focusing 
on four major 
environmental goals:
Carbon intensity
Reduce by 50 percent over the 2009 
baseline by 2020
Energy-efficient buildings
Receive ENERGY STAR certification for 
100 percent of eligible buildingsEarn LEED certification for 315 retail 
stores
e-Waste
Internal — Recycle 90 million pounds of 
Verizon assets between 2014 and 2016
External — Collect 4 million pounds  
of e-waste at public and employee events between 2009 and 2020
Water
Reduce water usage by 7 percent over the 
2014 baseline by 202045 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
http:/ /www.verizon.com/about/responsibility/sustainability
98 million pounds
of materials recycled2015 performance dashboard
Improving energy efficiency Reducing waste
Encouraging responsibility2009
baseline2010
18%
29% 31%40% 40%
50%2011 2012 2013 2014 2020
Goal
289total LEED-
certified stores* Our 2015 progress will be published on our website later this year.
2015 Green Team goal20,000
Green Team enrollment21,865
29 countries & territories have  
Verizon Green Team members
180 Green Team events were heldGreener stores and buildingsGoal: Cut carbon intensity in half by 2020*
ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year  
Sustained Excellence recognition206 ENERGY STAR–certified  
buildings, including offices and  
distribution centers100%  of eligible retail stores (in the fourth quarter)  
ENERGY STAR–certified189landfill diversion   
for used wireless devices100%
2.17 million pounds  
of e-waste collected at  
recycling rallies between  
2009 and 201546 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Product 
responsibility47 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Ensuring that 
technology  
is safe for everyone 
Customers use our technology every day 
to entertain and educate their children, oversee their retirement accounts, monitor their health, and connect with 
friends and coworkers. As the Internet of 
Things grows and develops, customers will employ our solutions and network to manage even more aspects of their lives, from the cars they drive to the homes they live in. Privacy and security have never 
been more important to our company or 
our customers.
Privacy and 
security have 
never been  
more important to our company 
or our customers. Privacy and 
security
Privacy
Goal: Enhance our privacy-compliance 
guidelines to reflect new technologies, 
products and services as well as new and evolving industry standards
Progress: As we develop new products 
and services, deploy new technologies and develop new uses for information, we examine relevant privacy questions. And we review and update our Privacy Policy  when needed to explain any additions or changes. 
Protecting our customers’ privacy is an 
important priority at Verizon. We are committed to maintaining strong and meaningful privacy protections. We are 
transparent about the information we 
collect, how we use it, and what options are available regarding certain uses of information.
Securing our customers’ information is a 
priority that Verizon takes seriously, and we have safeguards in place to shield 
customer information from unauthorized 
access, use or disclosure.48 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
the  1 telecom companyGovernment requests 
for information
In addition to advertisers, government 
and law enforcement agencies sometimes request customer information (such as calling records). While Verizon has a legal 
obligation to provide customer information 
to law enforcement in response to lawful demands (e.g., a subpoena or order), we take seriously our duty to provide such information only when required by law. Our dedicated teams carefully review 
each demand and reject those that fail to comply with the law. If a demand is overly broad or vague, we will not disclose 
any of the information called for in the demand, or we will work to narrow the scope of the information we provide. Some demands are for information that we simply do not have, and sometimes we have some, but not all, of the information 
sought; accordingly, we will provide no 
information at all or only some of the information sought by these demands from law enforcement.
We strive to be transparent about these 
requests, as well. In January 2014, we became the first telecom company to issue a Transparency Report, and we have issued updated reports every six months, including our most recent report 
in January 2016. Those reports share  
data on the number of law-enforcement  
requests for consumer information  
that Verizon receives in the U.S. and in 
other countries where we do business.  
You can read our latest Transparency 
Report here .
We will continue to update this report 
twice a year.
to issue a Transparency Reportst
49 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Online safety
The Verizon network enables consumer 
choice and provides customers with access to a broad range of content over a variety of devices, platforms and networks. 
We are committed to providing customers 
with the information and tools to make informed choices on what is appropriate for themselves and their families.
Content Policy 
Verizon first developed and published  our Content Policy for Verizon Networks in 2008. Since then, we have continually updated the policy to make sure it  
remains relevant in the evolving digital 
landscape. Our policy is built on the following fundamental principles:
• We believe in helping customers make 
informed choices about the content and services they want to access;
• We are committed to supporting content management tools and access 
to educational materials; and• We respect our customers’ freedom of 
expression and ability to freely access all lawful content.
You can learn more about our Content 
Policy here .
Through our Content Policy, we ensure 
that content is age-rated, that it conforms to recognized third-party content-rating systems when available, and that it is consistent with industry standard practices. We are committed to supporting our customers’ ability to self-manage 
access to content by providing content 
management tools.
For instance, our Fios TV parental controls 
go well beyond the rating-based filters offered by other streaming services, allowing parents to block content by age group, control the display of certain 
programming and information on the 
on-screen guide, or even block specific channels or categories. The My Fios app enables parents to control how much time their kids spend online through per-device Internet usage limits, and lets 
them set daily or weekly time limits on any 
connected device. 
We also provide information regarding wireless content filters that enable  
parents to decide what type of content their children should be able to access via 
their phones and other wireless devices.
Our Verizon Internet Security Suite 
protects computers, personal information and children from a wide array of  
online threats.
We also provide tools to help people learn 
more about online safety and connect with others to solve problems, including:
Family Online Safety Institute (FOSI)
Verizon is a board member of FOSI, 
an international, nonprofit organization dedicated to making the online world safer for kids and families through enlightened public policy, industry best practice and FOSI’s Good Digital Parenting initiative.
Mobile Living is an online destination that 
provides our customers with information 
on today’s technology. Online safety experts provide “Tips for Parents” to educate parents about common areas of technology concern, tools to help them solve problems, and information to bridge the technology gap between them and 
their children.50 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Family Safeguards and Controls
This is a website that lets customers 
follow, share and participate in the ongoing conversation about digital safety 
and security.
To access Verizon context tools and 
educational resources, please click here .Closing the 
digital divide
Verizon’s core business — information and 
communications technology (ICT) — is remaking the way people live and work, giving them access to new opportunities 
and streamlining communications to 
help them perform everyday tasks more efficiently.Rural empowerment
Rural communities do not always have timely access to the latest technology. In 2010, Verizon created the LTE in Rural America (LRA) program, a collaborative 
partnership with rural carriers to 
accelerate the deployment of rural wireless broadband services.
Under LRA, participating carriers lease 
valuable 700-MHz radio spectrum from Verizon and build their own networks, enabling them to offer 4G LTE services 
more quickly and economically. A dedicated 51 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
team of Verizon technology experts works 
directly with the rural carriers as they develop and deploy their networks.
By the end of 2015, all 21 of our partners 
in the LRA program had launched LTE 
service in their leased areas, building a growing network of over 1,200 active sites. The leases for the 21 participants cover nearly 2.9 million people in 15 states and more than 225,000 square miles.
Serving people with 
accessibility issues
Using a cell phone or Internet connection 
can be challenging for people who are hearing-impaired or have a vision, cognitive, speech or mobility disability. 
Verizon strives to make all of its products 
and services accessible to people with accessibility issues.
Goal: Add features to and continue 
development of the National Accessibility Customer Service Center, and launch videophone with American Sign 
Language service
Progress: The Verizon Wireless National 
Accessibility Customer Service Center (NACS) opened in 2014 to support 
customers who need additional assistance to meet their wireless needs. The NACS complements our existing Center for 
Customers with Disabilities, which serves 
Verizon’s “wireline” customers. We continue to advance our plans to provide videophone-based care in American Sign Language in the NACS.
You can watch a video about how this 
team serves customers with accessibility 
issues here .
Goal: Work with the National Braille Press 
on a tablet for the visually impaired
Progress: Although we explored this idea 
with the National Braille Press, the project did not proceed past initial discussions.
Goal: Develop accessibility solutions for 
our Fios video product that includes voice 
activation features via the remote and/or 
an interactive media guide
Progress: We are on track to deliver 
additional accessibility features to our Fios TV service.
Goal: Continue to explore new ways to 
improve location-identification accuracy 
for emergency calls and textsUniversal design
Some consumers may be unable to use digital products because they are not designed to meet their specific needs. In 1987, Verizon 
embraced a set of Universal Design 
Principles that commit our company to providing products and services that are accessible by the broadest range of customers, including youth, individuals with disabilities and 
seniors. You can read the full text of 
our Universal Design Principles here .
52 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Progress: In 2015, Verizon and other 
industry partners began developing 
a common test bed to analyze new technological solutions to improve 
location-identification accuracy for 911 
voice calls from mobile phones. This industry effort includes emergency response organizations and is also informed by a broad advisory group of additional stakeholders, including state 
and local emergency response interests 
and disability advocacy groups.
Distracted 
driving 
Safe driving is everyone’s responsibility. 
Verizon wants people to arrive at their destinations safely. In 2000, we became the first wireless carrier to support state 
legislation banning handheld mobile 
phone use while driving. Today, we’re still engaged in responsible driving initiatives, advocating for common-sense legislation 
and spearheading consumer education efforts to raise awareness about driving. 
• In September 2015, Verizon and the 
Michigan State Police announced 
 Radio-
frequency 
emissions
Verizon is committed to providing  
our customers with information concerning the potential health effects  of radio-frequency (RF) emissions from 
cell phones.
This information may include ways in 
which to access scientific research and FCC regulations. For those concerned about possible health effects, we provide information on steps for reducing exposure to RF emissions.
Verizon makes this information available  
in a number of places: on our website ,  
in a standalone buckslip provided in the 
box of every new or refurbished cell phone, and in all Verizon retail stores, where a sign is posted advising that such information is available on request.
Safe driving 
is everyone’s responsibility. a partnership to educate Michigan  
high-school students on the dangers  
of distracted driving.
• Verizon is also supporting technology-
driven solutions to distracted driving. The Israeli start-up i4drive was a 
 
finalist in this year’s Verizon Powerful Answers contest , submitting an app 
that transformed a mobile phone from a driving distraction to a helpful tool for 
responsible driving.
• And students at Governors School in 
Virginia proposed a solution that was simpler but just as powerful. Their concept for an app called “Block It Out,” submitted for the Verizon Innovative 
App Challenge , describes an app that 
would respond automatically to texts 
and voice calls with preset messages such as, “I’m driving.”
For more information about responsible driving, please visit here .53 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Supply chain
54 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Aligning our 
suppliers with 
our values 
Supplier Code  
of Conduct
We ask our suppliers to work with  
us toward achieving high ethical  standards by agreeing to our  Supplier Code of Conduct .
That means committing to acting  with integrity, obeying all applicable  health, safety and environmental laws,  and protecting confidential and proprietary information.
The Code also:• forbids the use of child labor, forced 
labor and discrimination;
• protects employees’ rights to freedom 
of association and collective bargaining, 
as permitted by local laws;• forbids the use of “conflict minerals”  in products provided to Verizon; and
• describes how suppliers should  work with us on compliance and enforcement issues.
Supplier evaluation
We work through a third party, EcoVadis, to measure how well our vendors are protecting the environment, safeguarding human rights, treating workers fairly 
and making sure their own suppliers are 
sustainable. Verizon has assessed 350 suppliers since July 2013 through the EcoVadis online platform.
After our suppliers complete their 
questionnaires, EcoVadis checks their responses and compares them with those 
of their peers, drawing on information 
from NGOs, the media and other public sources to set benchmarks. When we think suppliers can improve, Verizon works with them to create a plan for achieving new goals. The result: a reduction in risk for both Verizon and the supplier. In 2014, we set a goal to conduct environmental assessments on 50 percent of our mobile device accessory suppliers. We surpassed this goal by assessing 77 percent of accessory vendors in 2015. This year, we’ve announced an additional goal to improve supplier sustainability: 
By 2017, we aim to make sure that 
75 percent of our assessed suppliers meet our environmental standards.
Verizon is a member of the Joint Audit 
Cooperation (JAC), an association of telecom operators that promotes shared and coordinated on-site corporate 
responsibility audits of suppliers. Over 
200 supplier audits have been completed since JAC’s inception in 2010; 61 were completed in 2015.
Verizon joined JAC in 2013 as the first 
U.S.–based member and serves on both the Leadership Assembly and Operational 
Board. Other members include Deutsche 
Telecom, Orange, Telecom Italia, Belgacom, KPN, Swisscom, Telenor, TeliaSonera and Vodafone.
55 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Conflict minerals
Part of the world’s supply of metals, such 
as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, comes from war-torn countries, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Buying 
materials from conflict-ridden countries 
can help finance further unrest and suffering. As a result, we ask our partners to take steps to ensure that their products do not include materials that either directly or indirectly finance or benefit 
armed groups in the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo (or in any adjoining country).
You can read more about these issues in  
our Conflict Minerals Statement .
Verizon’s most recent Conflict Minerals Report on Form SD can be found here .Our progress
Raising the bar on 
monitoring supplier compliance
Goal: Increase the number of JAC audits 
and continue to work with the companies in our supply chain to address issues of non-compliance
Progress: In 2015, we completed 61 JAC 
audits, up from 35 in 2014. We are also 
continuing our work with EcoVadis to create plans for improvements with suppliers who have not yet met our standards.What’s next
Goal: Continue work with JAC and EcoVadis to improve compliance
Goal: Ensure that 75 percent of 
our assessed suppliers meet our 
environmental standards by 2017
56 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Supplier 
diversity
Working with suppliers from a variety of 
backgrounds helps us build long-term value for our customers. Diversity is important for our own success as well as 
that of our suppliers.
In 2015, we purchased $4.25 billion 
in goods and services from diverse suppliers including minority-, women- and veteran-owned businesses. This brings our total spend with diverse suppliers to nearly $25 billion over the past five years.
We continuously work to expand our 
diversity and inclusion efforts and monitor 
our progress. We have a robust Tier 2 program that encourages collaboration between our primary and our diverse suppliers.
You can read more about our  
supplier diversity programs here .2015 awards for supply 
chain diversity
• Minority Business News USA 
named Verizon to its “Corporate 101” list in recognition of supporting diverse businesses.
• The Women’s Business Enterprise National Council included Verizon in its “Top Corporations” in support of women-owned business enterprises for the 10th consecutive year.
• The U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Million Dollar Club 
recognized Verizon for spending 
over $1 billion with Hispanic business enterprises and for integrating these businesses into our sourcing and procurement process.
• DiversityBusiness.com ranked 
Verizon No. 5 on its 2015 “Div50” 
list for multicultural business opportunities.
• Verizon is a charter member of the Billion Dollar Roundtable, a coalition of 20 companies that spend more than $1 billion each 
year with diverse suppliers.
• Black Enterprise magazine 
included Verizon on its “35 Top Companies for Supplier Diversity” list, recognizing best practices for diverse representation within supply chains.In 2015, Verizon purchased
4.25  
billion$
in goods and services 
with diverse suppliers. 57 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Employee 
experience
58 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Empowering 
our people 
to achieve 
purpose 
At Verizon, we’re more than just a place 
to work. We are a place where talented people come to collaborate, inspire one another and achieve a purpose —  for 
work, for life, for our world. And when we succeed, it’s because our team of employees succeeds —  not just at work, 
but in life.
Purpose is what drives us, and when that 
purpose is aspirational, we can achieve great things. Our V Team, the thousands of people who collaborate across the planet, is purpose-driven. How? Simple. It’s all about doing work that matters, that improves how our customers live, work 
and play, and that creates great customer 
experiences by delivering the promise of the digital world.
When we do that, it means we’re building 
both successful careers and prosperous lives. Every day, in many different ways, we enable our employees to succeed. A 
mid-career professional uses our award-
winning training to learn new skills to help him qualify for a better job. V Teamers connect on our social collaboration platform to share ideas and then seed the beginning of a new Internet of Things app by submitting their brain-storming thoughts to our employee idea engine. An engineer from a minority background becomes a mentor and role model to young girls learning to code. A disabled veteran puts to work the skills that she 
learned while serving her country at her 
new civilian job at Verizon. 
We create an engaging employee 
experience in which our work makes a difference. Our culture encourages our people to innovate and thrive on challenges, build the world’s most 
awesome networks, and deliver personal 
technology solutions that make life better. Our commitment to one another and our customers starts with the Verizon Credo, an aspirational foundation for who we are and how we work. 59 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
The Verizon 
Credo
High-quality 
communications 
services
We have work because our customers 
value our high-quality communications services. We deliver superior customer experiences through our products and 
our actions. Everything we do we build on 
a strong network, systems and process foundation. The quality and reliability of the products we deliver are paramount. Customers pay us to provide them with services that they can rely on.
Focus outward on  
the customer
We focus outward on the customer, not inward. We make it easy for customers to do business with us, by listening, anticipating and responding to their 
needs. We know our products and can 
explain them to customers. We focus on fundamental execution. We are accountable, and we follow through with a sense of urgency. We know that having the highest ethical standards is a 
competitive advantage. 
T eamwork
We know teamwork enables us to 
serve our customers better and faster. We embrace diversity and personal development not only because it’s  
the right thing to do, but also because  it’s smart business. We are driven not  
by ego but by accomplishments. We keep our commitments to each other and our customers. Our word is our contract. 
We respect and trust one another, 
communicating openly, candidly and directly since any other way is unfair  and a waste of time. We voice our opinion and exercise constructive dissent, and then rally around the agreed-upon action with our full support. Any one of us can 
deliver a view or idea to anyone else, 
and listen to and value another’s view regardless of title or level. Ideas live and die on their merits rather than where  they were invented.
Integrity is at the  
core of who we are.
We believe integrity is at the core of  who we are. It establishes the trust that  is critical to the relationships we have.  We are committed to doing the right  
thing and follow sound business practices 
in dealing with our customers, suppliers, owners and competitors. Our competitors are not enemies; they are challengers who drive us to improve. We are good corporate citizens and share our success with the community to make the world in which we work better than it was 
yesterday.
Best is our strength
We know that bigness is not our strength, 
best is our strength. Bureaucracy is an enemy. We fight every day to stay “small” and keep bureaucracy out. We are more 
agile than companies a fraction of our 
size because we act fast and take risks every day. We see crisis and change as opportunities, not threats. We run to a crisis, not away. Change energizes us. We work hard, take action and take personal 
accountability for getting things done. Our 
actions produce measurable results.
Our corporate values
Everything we do is built on the strong foundation of our corporate values. We work 24x7 because our customers depend on us 24x7. We know our best 
was good for today. Tomorrow we’ll  
do better. Integrity
Respect
  Performance  
  excellenceWe are  
VerizonAccountability60 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Goal: Require the leadership team and 
Supply Chain Services organization to once again complete the Conflict of Interest Questionnaire (COIQ)
Progress: All (100 percent) of the active 
leadership team and Supply Chain Services organization completed COIQs in 2015.
Goal: Require all employees to complete 
mandatory training on our updated Code of Conduct and continue our communications about the Code
Progress: The Code of Conduct was 
updated for 2015. All (100 percent) active employees completed the new Code of Conduct training course. Relevant and proactive ethics-related communications to our employees continued in 2015.
We believe health 
and wellness 
are fundamental 
to success, in business and in life.Health and 
wellness
We believe health and wellness are 
fundamental to success, in business and in life. That’s why we make them a priority in our workplace experience. We cultivate 
a culture of health through comprehensive 
services and benefits that encourage and enable preventive care, early detection, chronic-condition management (for diabetes, cardiovascular disease, etc.), emotional wellness and healthy living for 
our V Team members and their families. Supporting resilience  
and emotional health
We want the V Team to be healthy,  
happy and productive. We all have  those times when we can use a little help with life’s challenges. That’s why Verizon 
provides comprehensive resources 
designed to assist all team members as well as their families during challenging times. We encourage employees to use these resources when needed. 
Our Resilience Toolbox provides 
managers with resources to support team 
members who might be struggling with 
61 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
challenges in their lives. These valuable 
tools help to raise awareness and educate our people leaders about how to respond if a team member is having difficulties. 
Managers all over the world are equipped 
with the knowledge and resources to be able to point V Teamers to important assistance aimed at supporting emotional well-being. 
In addition, a comprehensive Employee 
Assistance Program (EAP) provides 
easy access to tools and resources 
designed to help V Teamers lead healthier, happier lives. The EAP is free and is also available to employees’ dependents and household members. It’s confidential and accessible 24 hours a day, 365 days 
a year. This valuable resource assists 
thousands on the V Team every year, providing information and connecting them with professional assistance for child services, elder care services, adoption assistance, mental health problems, 
financial challenges, substance abuse, 
stress management and many other family services. Our online and mobile resource myStrength —  The health club for your 
mind
TM —  is available through the EAP 
for managing stress, anxiety, depression, substance abuse and other issues. This resource is available to V Teamers and 
their household members and offers 
free access to tips, exercises, videos and more —  all tailored to help us better 
manage the stressful and anxiety-ridden moments of life.
62 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Making our fitness and health a priority
24,530 
employees participated in our “Wellness 365: Building a Better You” program. They logged the following:
349,130
glasses of water 
consumed
4,579
activities of  
personal interest65,336
days on which fruits  
and vegetables were eaten
19,116
days on which relaxation techniques were used43,235
nights of 7–8 hours  
of sleep4,654
acts of random  
kindness
8,272
lbs. lost858
goals accomplished
Diabetes prevention  
and management
According to the most recent statistics, as 
of 2012, more than 29 million Americans had diabetes, while an additional 86 million had pre-diabetic conditions that might lead 
to the disease. The number of U.S. adults 
with diabetes is projected to double or triple by 2050 if current trends continue. Verizon is working to help employees and their family members identify the signs of this disease early and, ultimately, to lessen the toll it takes. Our partners in health, 
like Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield and 
WebMD, play a big role in providing services that make a difference in the quality of life for our team members. In 2015:
• More than 950 employees and their 
family members received nurse outreach from Anthem about important 
screenings.
• Out of 19,850 unique members 
identified with at least one care  gap, 11,994 were reached through Anthem’s Vascular at Risk Outbound 
Call Campaign.
• Through WebMD, more than 1,100 
participants completed a pilot weight-management-coaching program. Participants worked with coaches telephonically and via mobile devices, tracking progress over 12 months, with 
71 percent losing or not gaining weight. 
We’re expanding this pilot to a full program along with lifestyle coaching services for other risk factors in 2016. 63 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Care for expecting 
parents and healthy 
babies
V Teamers and their spouses or partners 
expecting a baby have access to prenatal and postnatal maternity care. This year, 45 percent of the new additions to our 
families were delivered with the help of 
our Healthy Pregnancy Program from Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield. This program helps to assess any risks to the 
mom or baby during pregnancy and after 
delivery, and provides helpful information and coaching by specialized nurses.
We welcome these new V Teamers by 
enabling their parents to spend quality bonding time with them through our paid parental leave. Under this benefit, eligible 
new parents, both moms and dads, can 
take up to 10 days of paid leave to spend time with their newborn or adopted child. Parental leave, in addition to traditional maternity benefits covered under our disability plan, along with other paid-time-off benefits such as vacation and personal 
time, allow new parents to maximize 
bonding time with their new family members. For mothers, these benefits can add up to as much as three months of paid time off after giving birth.
615,000+
workouts took place in our on-site 
Health & Wellness centers in 2015.Staying on top of our 
game with fitness 
centers 
V Teamers use our 45 Verizon Health & 
Wellness centers to learn about their health and to participate in activities that will keep them healthy. Fitness center 
membership was at 16,000. In 2015:
• More than 615,000 workouts took place 
in our on-site H&W centers (in addition, more than 312,000 visits occurred, including nutritional consultations, 
equipment orientations, fitness 
assessments, health discussions,  goal-setting sessions and other wellness events).
• Over 66,000 personal training/group training sessions were conducted by coaches with team members.
• The “Wellness 365: Building a Better You” program was launched across the nation. In 2015, 24,530 employees participated (see graphic on page 62 for details).
• 3,211 V Teamers participated in the “Choose to Move” Verizon challenge to track their healthy habits for eight weeks. Employees formed teams with colleagues for extra motivation or participated as individuals to track steps taken, exercise minutes and weight loss.
And for members of our team who do not work near one of our 45 locations 
with an on-site H&W center, our Global 
Fit program provides a discount on gym memberships at approximately 8,000 locations across the U.S. 64 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
From high risk  
to healthy and  
running a 10K
At age 24, V Teamer Daniel Pajak 
realized it was time for a change, and our Verizon fitness coaches helped him to succeed. Here’s 
his story:
I was already on high blood 
pressure medication and at high risk 
for diabetes. I was at my heaviest, 
having grown from a chubby kid into a heavy adult. I had tried fad diets and exercised, but nothing seemed to work. I wanted to be healthier, so a teammate and I decided to give the company’s Health & Wellness 
Center a try. 
The coaches didn’t just point to the 
problems I already knew —  namely 
that my diet and exercise programs 
were not on target. Instead, we 
created a plan and we executed on that plan, pushing my activity level a bit more every day and evolving my eating habits. Small steps, such as focusing on lean protein over carbs 
and working out several times a 
week, were my foundational blocks. 
I lost the weight I wanted, and I have 
kept it off. I also ran my first 10K 
race, which is twice the distance 
I envisioned for my first competition.
At age 24, I knew I had to make a 
change or be unhealthy my entire 
life. Having someone in your corner, guiding and pushing you in the right direction, created success for me. I thank my workout partner and Verizon’s Health & Wellness coaches for giving me the gift of better health.Beyond our H&W centers, we promote a healthy V Team through a comprehensive range of on-site services delivered as part 
of our “Be Well, Work Well” programs. In 
2015, we delivered more than 200 on-site health and wellness events that delivered valuable health services to thousands of V Teamers. These included free biometric health screenings, mammography 
screenings and flu shots. 
• 4,890+ employees received a free health 
screening for cholesterol, blood sugar, blood pressure and body mass index.
• 19,600 employees received flu shots.
• 570+ women age 40+ took advantage of the on-site mammography screenings.
Verizon also provides and promotes other online and mobile tools and resources on 
the WellConnect and Verizon HealthZone 
(powered by WebMD) portals to help team members who are on the move keep up with healthy habits. Mobile tools for 
healthy lives: 
WellConnect 
V Teamers and their families have 
access to a wide range of health and wellness resources at any time through the WellConnect portal. Information is 
available on preventive care, tobacco 
cessation, physical activity, nutrition, mobile tools, wearable devices and much more. In 2015, 60,913 employees 
used the WellConnect portal. In addition, 
57,649 participants logged in to their personalized “My Health Vault” to check their Health Assessment score, Health Screening results and Lifestyle Incentive Tracker as part of actively managing their health. 
65 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Work-life 
balance
Life’s busy. We get it. Balancing work and 
life is especially hard in today’s digitally connected world, where people carry their job with them everywhere they go. 
Understanding the need for balance 
between the demands of work and life, we strive to ensure that our V Team members have the flexibility they need to tend to life, whether it’s celebrating good times, making that dance recital or 
baseball game, or taking time to care for 
themselves or their family.We help employees meet both work and family obligations in a variety of ways, including a generous time-off package, alternative work arrangements and an array of family-friendly benefits and services. 
Vacation, holidays and personal days 
provide a generous amount of paid time 
off and, when combined with our flexible leave-of-absence programs, form a solid core of time-off options that can be adapted to individual needs. 
In 2015, more than 5,000 V Teamers 
regularly leveraged our alternative work 
programs, such as Flex-Time with its 
adjustable start-stop times, Compressed Workweek, and Telework, to help them achieve a healthy and productive work-life balance. Among the family-friendly benefits and services we provide are: 10 days of paid parental leave for parents to bond with a newborn or adopted child; emergency child and elder care service; the Bright Horizons Special Needs program for 
parents with special needs children; and 
the myStrength stress-reduction tool that can be tailored to the needs of each participant. Also, our comprehensive Employee Assistance Program, available to our V Team members and their families 
24x7x365, provides answers, information 
and support for many of the work-life questions and issues that come up in day-to-day life.66 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Working dad. Growing 
son. Career aspirations.
Being a working parent has its challenges. 
Rohan Mehta joined Verizon in 2011, motivated to work for a company that values his desire to be there for 
his son while also using his skills in 
customer service.Four years later, Rohan continues to be the dad who does both. But without the flexibility to balance work and life, he would face challenges —  meet customer 
needs or make that T-ball game?
Rohan, a solutions specialist in 
Albuquerque, N.M., is a single working parent. Before joining Verizon, he worked at a hotel that constantly changed his 
schedule and made it hard for him to spend time with his young son, Andrey. Interviewing at Verizon, he learned that his customer skills would be an asset and that 
he’d have a regular schedule that would 
allow him to take care of his son. From his first conversations with Verizon’s staffing team, he felt confident that advance planning for shifts, for example, would remove the uncertainty he had previously 
faced when scheduling child care.
“It’s a good feeling to know that I can be 
an active dad in Andrey’s life and be able to grow my career,” he says.
Rohan started his Verizon career as a 
customer service representative and soon became a technical support coordinator, building on his interests in technology 
products and services. With his growing 
knowledge of the business, it wasn’t long before he became a transition coach, helping new team members get ready for their jobs. Ultimately, he served as an acting supervisor for his team.
Rohan is now training for his new 
position as a retail solutions specialist, where he will be able to interact face-to-face with customers, something he 
has realized he particularly enjoys. “My 
supervisors encouraged me to go after this opportunity and nominated me for an eight-month pre-leadership program to prepare me for this role,” says Rohan. 67 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Competitive pay  
and benefits
When people are financially and 
personally secure, they can focus on achieving their goals at work and in life. That’s why we support the V Team 
financially, professionally and personally 
with a leading package that delivers a combination of competitive pay and first-class benefits.
Comprising base pay, incentives, an 
industry-leading 401(k) savings plan 
that matches up to 6 percent of salary, and high-quality, affordable healthcare coverage that includes medical, dental and vision care along with disability and insurance programs, our total rewards 
package provides what V Teamers and 
their families need for today and for tomorrow. Just consider that in 2015 we covered more than 670,000 beneficiaries, investing more than $3.2 billion to deliver healthcare benefits and services alone. 
Our benefits also cover opportunities for 
continuing education to grow and develop, time off, and flexibility to balance work and life, as well as substantial resources that 
promote physical and emotional health 
and well-being for our team members and their families. 
Career growth and 
training opportunities 
One thing’s for sure —  Verizon is a place 
where people are encouraged to grow 
so that our business can grow. V Teamers are challenged to continuously learn 
new things and collaborate so they can 
innovate and develop solutions that benefit our customers and keep Verizon at the forefront of the technology sector.Our learning and development resources are recognized as among the best in the 
world. We actively deliver leading-edge 
learning platforms and tools to enable the V Team to continually learn, grow and develop their skills. We leverage our own technology —  mobile devices and 
cloud-based computing powered by our 
network —  to deliver content in multiple 
formats. These include virtual instructor-
led modules, self-paced online courses, gamification, books online and VZTube instructional videos.
In 2015, we invested more than $308 million 
to strengthen our business and our culture 
of learning. Our talented workforce actively 
takes advantage of the 22,000 courses we provide, having completed 8.8 million hours of training in 2015 —  an average of 
50.7 hours per team member. Over the past three years, our team has completed more than 25 million hours of training as part of 
our pursuit to be the best.
68 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Learning via the portal and 
mobile-support solutions
At the heart of our learning and 
development platform is the Verizon Learning Portal —  where employees can 
enroll in face-to-face as well as virtual 
training and find Skillsoft and other online 
courses, Books 24x7, Verizon Leadership University, VZTube videos, podcasts and much more. The portal maintains a record of all training completed and allows employees to rate and share comments 
about courses. Best of all, online content is 
accessible from work, from home or when on the go, making it available 24x7x365. Our mobile learning and performance-support solutions allow V Teamers to access information in real time to best support our customers wherever and 
whenever needed.  Assisting with tuition
Our Global Tuition Assistance Program 
provides team members with up to $8,000 annually to fund higher-education studies for enhancing their careers at 
Verizon. The program reinforces how 
we encourage V Teamers to grow, and the number of participating employees and our investment has been increasing steadily over the past three years. In 2015, more than 22,500 employees used the 
program to continue their education and 
advance their career goals.
Collaborating with  
talented people
Learning and development in today’s fast-paced, technology-driven world is occurring in new and different ways. At Verizon, our community of talented people 
at all levels of the company work with 
one another through social networking tools that promote knowledge- and idea-sharing, cross-collaboration among teams, and exchanges about business challenges.Many V Teamers connect through Chatter and our Jive-powered CrowdAround 
social platforms. They also take part in 
live chats during which they can ask questions and receive real-time answers directly from senior leaders. In 2015, live-chat topics included the Internet of Things, Telematics, Marketing and 
Information Technology.In 2015, more than
 22,500 
employees used our Global T uition 
Assistance Program to continue 
their education.
69 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Verizon tuition assistance  
Year Participants Expenditure
2013 21,912 $86.3 million
2014 22,066 $88.1 million
2015 22,585 $94.1 million45.2
49.7
50.72013
20142015Employee training
Average annual hours of training per employeeRecent employee training 
achievements
• Continued “Training Top 10 Hall 
of Fame” status. First inducted 
by Training magazine in 2014 
after ranking in the top 10 for four consecutive years, including  
#1 in 2012 and 2013.
• Ranked #7 for Learning and Development, in 2015 and  2014, by the Association for  
Talent Development.
• Rated #5 among Growing  
Strong Leaders in 2015 by  Chief Executive magazine.
• Won two 2015 Brandon Hall Group Awards: Gold for Excellence in Technology for Best Advance in Learning 
Management Technology —  
GEMS: Global Engagement Management System, and Bronze, in partnership with ELI, for Best Unique or Innovative Learning and Development Program —  Civil 
Treatment for Leaders®.70 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Safety
At Verizon, we believe that a safe work 
environment is fundamental to the employee experience. And while safety at work is important, our focus is broader 
because we want the V Team to be safe 
all the time, everywhere.
Why is safety so important? Simple. 
Our people are Verizon. Our culture of safety begins with our Be Safe principles. We share safety information with all V Teamers so they can be safe 
at work, at home and on the road, and 
also share it with their families. Working safely from heights, around electricity, when using tools, by protecting your eyes, and by avoiding distractions while driving are some of the topics our safety training covers.
A safe work environment is also good for 
our customers. A safe workplace helps the V Team innovate, collaborate and deliver a great experience —  whether our 
people are working in a research lab, a call center, a garage work center, a store or office building, on the road in our fleet, or 
at a customer’s location.To make safety a part of how we work,  
we focus on three key elements:
• Providing the V Team with the 
appropriate tools, safety equipment and 
training to perform a job safely.
• Conveying targeted information and processes to enable and motivate our employees to work safely.
• Conducting internal compliance  checks and hiring outside experts  to perform safety audits globally to 
ensure that environmental policies  
and safety management processes  are being followed.
Our focus on safety has driven results.  In 2015:
• We delivered six new safety courses 
on topics such as working in confined 
spaces, lead awareness, vehicle 
inspections and defensive driving, many via mobile devices.
• Our occupational injuries and illnesses rate was 1.32 per 100 employees —  significantly lower than the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ telecommunications industry average of 2.20.We promote a  
culture of safety 
through our Be Safe 
principles to reinforce four fundamental 
safety practices:
Be Smart  
by knowing  
your safety  
procedures.
Be Aware of 
your work environment.
Be Focused on performing your job safely.
Be Equipped  
for your job.
71 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Diversity and 
inclusion
When you’re in the business of connecting 
people across the planet, diversity needs to be part of your DNA, your blueprint  for success.
The Verizon Credo sets the direction: 
“We embrace diversity not only because it’s the right thing to do, but also because it’s smart business.” By acknowledging and tapping into the diversity of thoughts, capabilities and backgrounds among our team members, suppliers and customers, 
we strengthen our ability to reach higher 
levels of achievement in business and in life. 
One way we operationalize our 
commitment to diversity and inclusion is through our Equal Employment Opportunity policy. Our policy provides 
protection to all persons, without regard 
to race, color, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, national origin, disability, military status, citizenship status,  veteran status or any other legally protected categories. 
Connecting 
employees through 
resource groups
We value our Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs) as vibrant contributors to the Verizon experience and our ability to create a collaborative, inclusive and 
diverse environment where V Teamers can 
bring the best of who they are and their talents to the table. People who share the same heritage, background or work-life experiences can connect through our ERGs, which help participants to improve, grow and succeed.
Why do thousands of V Teamers 
participate in these volunteer 
organizations? It’s because they provide a forum through which members can develop their talents, collaborate with professionals who share similar interests, and channel their energy for benefiting society. With members across our global 
footprint, ERGs foster partnerships, 
information-sharing, and connections across our diverse base of customers, suppliers and communities. They offer mentoring, leadership training, professional and personal development seminars, and networking events. They 
also provide members with opportunities 
to pursue their passion for volunteer work, helping one another and giving back to the communities where we work and live.Verizon Employee Resource Groups
• Asian-Pacific Employees for Excellence
• Consortium of Information and 
Telecommunications Executives (African-Americans)
• Disabilities Issues Awareness Leaders
• Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender 
Employees of Verizon and Their Allies
• Hispanic Support Organization
• Native American People of Verizon
• South Asian Professionals Inspiring 
Corporate Excellence
• Veterans Advisory Board of Verizon
• Women’s Association of Verizon Employees72 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
2015 diversity awards  
and honors
Due to our continued commitment 
to creating a diverse and inclusive workplace, Verizon has been recognized as a leader for diversity and inclusion. 
Below are some of the awards and honors 
we’ve received recently.
Working Mother —  100 Best Companies  
Lots of things can make a company 
a great place to work for working mothers. Maternity leave, flexible work arrangements, adoption assistance 
and daycare discounts are just a few 
examples of the benefits that Verizon offers its employees. And they’re only part of the reason why Verizon, for the 15th consecutive year, was named one of Working Mother’s 100 Best Companies.DiversityInc recognized Verizon as being 
one of the top 50 companies for diversity 
for the 15th consecutive year. In fact, we’re one of only two companies to have been ranked #1 twice. Every year Verizon has been recognized for its efforts in hiring, developing and retaining diverse talent.
Black Enterprise recognized Verizon 
as one of the 40 Best Companies for 
Diversity —  with particular strengths in the 
diversity of our Board of Directors and Supplier Diversity Program.
Human Rights Campaign/Corporate 
Equality Index — Verizon scored 85 percent and is in the top 20 Fortune 
1000 companies on the Human Rights 
Campaign 2016 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), which evaluates employment policies and practices supporting equality for LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender) communities. Companies are rated based how well they do with regard to non-discrimination policies and 
practices in the workplace.
Disability Equality Index (DEI) — Verizon 
participated in the 2014 DEI survey 
(completed in early 2015), receiving a score of 80 points and perfect scores in the areas pertaining to enterprise-wide access for individuals with disabilities, employment 
practices (such as accommodations, 
benefits, recruitment, education, retention and advancement) and community engagement. 
Hispanic Association of Corporate 
Responsibility (HACR) rated Verizon in various categories including employee 
resource groups, executive sponsorship, 
recruiting and retention, internship programs and governance/leadership. Verizon received an overall score of 85 points, and was highlighted as one of the companies that improved its ratings year-over-year.
73 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
G.I.Jobs/Military Friendly ranked Verizon 
in the top 25 military-friendly companies for our continued support of military heroes. We are proud to have been 
named to the 2015 list of Military-Friendly 
Employers, and ranked #3 for our industry, by Victory Media, which is the publisher of G.I. Jobs and is a service-disabled, veteran-owned business.
T apping military skills  
and experience
Veterans make tremendous sacrifices for our country, and they deserve opportunities when they transition from the military. They also bring important 
skills to the workforce —  and particularly 
to high-technology employers like Verizon. 
We offer veterans the tools to navigate the 
shift to civilian life. For instance, the “Hiring Our Heroes” app provides résumé-building and networking services for job-seeking 
veterans. For veterans not sure where they 
would fit in at Verizon, our career website has a “Military Skills Matcher,” which identifies job openings that correlate to a candidate’s military experience.
Veterans have been integral to our success 
as a company, so we’ve increased our 
veteran recruiting and hiring efforts. Our 
dedicated military recruitment team of eight full-time team members, including veterans from each branch of service as well as a military spouse, works year-round on this mission. Through our Military Talent Network, we enable vets 
seeking jobs to keep in touch with the 
team and receive job alerts for their areas of expertise. Last year, team members attended nearly 200 military job events and participated in 15 virtual recruitment fairs. 
Ranked #1  
Best for Vets
Military Times 
magazine 2015
Top 25  
Military-Friendly 
Companies
G.I. Jobs magazine 
2015Pro Patria,  
Seven Seals,  
Patriot Award
ESGR state committees 2011, 2012 and 2015respectivelyRanked #1 
Vet Friendly 
Employer
Veteran Recruiting 
2014Freedom Award 
Secretary of Dept. of  Defense 2012
Veteran-friendly recognition74 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
In 2015, we hired 1,086 veterans. We now 
employ nearly 12,000 veterans across Verizon. That’s one reason why we were ranked #1 by Military Times on its Best for 
Vets: Employers 2015 list.
We also offer career opportunities for 
military spouses, helping them navigate the work-life challenges that come with deployments and relocations.
Our military leave policy allows our service 
men and women to continue serving their country. When V Teamers are called up to 
active duty, we bridge the gap between 
military pay and Verizon pay to ensure the family members and their financial needs are cared for.Once veterans join the V Team, they benefit from an active network of service members to help them adjust to civilian life. Our Veterans Advisory Board 
employee resource group also provides 
mentoring and other opportunities for vets to further engage with the Verizon community.
Listening to the  
V T eam
To reap the greatest benefit from diversity, we value contributions from our entire team. Our Verizon Credo guides us: “Any one of us can deliver a view or idea 
to anyone else, and listen to and value 
another’s view regardless of title or level.” For instance, every other year, we invite 
V Teamers to complete our Viewpoints 
employee opinion survey. The point is to make our business better by listening to the voice of the employee. The survey focuses on four key areas that are critical to our business success —  Customer 
Focus, Business Priorities, V Team Culture 
and Employee Experience. The 2014 
Viewpoints Survey drew our highest participation ever, and we look forward to hearing from our team members in 2016 so we can use their feedback to improve customer and employee experiences. 
Another important way we amplify 
the voice of the V Team to make our 
business better is through our employee idea engine. We encourage employees Through our employee idea engine, we implemented  
202 ideas from employees in 2015, generating an estimated
in financial benefits to 
the company. 7. 9   million$
Ideas Ideas per day Collaboration Challenges Implemented Est. ROI
2015 12,268 33.6 534,531 15 202 $7.9 million
2012–2015 65,437 44.8 1,528,189 61 442 $22.3 million75 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
to submit ideas and improve on them 
through a platform that allows them to vote, comment and improve. A team reviews every idea. Those identified 
as having merit are supported with 
developmental resources.
Our idea engine also serves as a way 
for leaders to engage with their teams through what we call business challenge sessions. Leaders post challenges we’re looking to tackle, and employees 
collaborate to develop solutions. In 2015, 
V Teamers submitted 12,268 ideas, an average of 33.6 ideas a day, collaborated 534,531 times and participated in 15 business challenge sessions. 
Creating an ongoing 
conversation
Beyond listening to the V Team, we 
create an ongoing conversation among employees through an array of communications channels. We connect our people at all levels worldwide so they 
can collaborate, innovate and deliver for 
our customers. Dialogue is central to the V Team experience, part of a culture that’s rooted in the open, candid and direct exchange of ideas.
Our central communications channel is 
VZWeb, a rich, social and customizable 
company intranet that’s available on all 
desktops and mobile devices. It connects employees with company and industry news, policies and resources, as well as collaboration tools. Thousands of V Teamers post comments on and replies to the news, submit their own ideas, and 
carry on discussions with colleagues 
across the globe.
VZWeb also provides V Teamers with a 
robust, personalized experience. They can explore career and training opportunities, access and manage their pay and benefits information, and use tools to balance 
work and family life, improve health and wellness, and manage work. They can also pursue their personal passions, such as participating on the Verizon Green 
Team or seeking volunteer opportunities 
in the communities we serve. 
Employees also connect through our 
Chatter and Jive-powered CrowdAround social platforms, and with senior management via webcasts and live-chat technology. They can speak directly 
with Chairman and CEO Lowell McAdam 
during his quarterly all-employee webcasts. Our senior leaders regularly host webcasts, having conducted 94 in 2015. The conversation continues through smaller, informal town hall meetings and roundtables held by leaders across 
the globe. 
We’re continuously looking for new  
and better ways to enable the  V Team to communicate, connect  and collaborate because it’s central to our ability to achieve our purpose to deliver the promise of the digital world  
to our customers. Engagement
Verizon employees give 
generously of their time, 
money and skills, and we 
support their passion for 
community engagement 
with company resources. 76 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Our progress
How we gave in 2015:
387,719  
volunteer hours  
were donated by employees to support  
nonprofit organizations.
Nearly $9.6 million  
was donated by employees to schools and nonprofits.
Nearly $11.0 million  
was given through Verizon’s Matching  Gifts program — supporting employees’ donations of time and money to  charitable organizations and schools.
Green Team: The Green Team is a 
voluntary, grass-roots effort that builds sustainability into everything we do. In 2015, 21,865 employees in 29 countries and territories were part of the Green 
Team. Green Team participants work to 
help Verizon reduce its environmental impact at work and to reduce their 
personal impact at home. For 2015, we 
set a goal of promoting 150 Green Team events — which we dramatically exceeded with more than 180 events, everything from planting trees to cleaning up green spaces to beautification projects.
For instance, our Green Team hosted 
seven “Green Bag” Sessions — 30- to 
60-minute webinars on environmental 
topics, including Electric Vehicle Charging, Earth Hour, Wise About Water, Rain Barrel 101, Summer of Conservation, and Carpooling Made Easy. Twelve editions of the VZ Green Insider newsletter 
were published globally to employees 
highlighting monthly environmental project results, upcoming initiatives and engagement opportunities. Green Team members led electronic recycling events for employees at 30 different locations across the U.S. to celebrate America 
Recycles Day. Green Team members in 
169 different locations participated in the Holiday Card Program and the cards that 
were collected were sent to St. Jude’s Ranch for Children.
In 2015, 183 Green Team members, other 
employees, and their families completed 
594 volunteer hours.
In 2016, we’re raising the bar with a goal to 
support 200 Green Team events and plant 50,000 trees.77 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Employee profile as of 12/31/15 (ethnic diversity) with AOL
Profile
Ethnic groupsTotal workforce 
(2015)% of total 
WF2014 U.S.  
labor force
American Indian/Alaskan Native  791 0.5% 0.7%
Asian  11,260 6.8% 5.2%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander  540 0.3% 0.2%
Black/African-American  31,926 19.3% 11.4%
Hispanic/Latino  18,470 11.2% 15.5%
Two races or more  3,670 2.2% 2.1%
White  98,822 59.7% 64.9%
Total U.S.  165,479 93.1%
International  12,221 6.9%
Total worldwide  177,700 100.0%
U.S. employee profile as of 12/31/15 (by gender)2014 U.S.  
labor force
Female  60,462 36.5% 47.2%
Male  105,017 63.5% 52.8%
Total U.S.  165,479 100.0%
International employee profile as of 12/31/15 (by gender)
Female  3,053 25.0%
Male  9,168 75.0%
Total international  12,221 100.0%
Gender worldwide
Female  63,515 35.7%
Male  114,185 64.3%
Total worldwide  177,700 100.0%
    Ethnic minorities represent 23.4 percent of the total U.S. senior management base (vice president and above). 
    Women represent 29.2 percent of U.S. senior management (vice president and above). 78 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Working with  
labor unions 
We have a long history of working with the 
Communications Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers —  the two main unions that 
represent about 45,000 of our employees.We meet with national and local union leaders to talk about key business topics, including issues such as safety, customer service, plans to improve operational processes, our business performance and 
the impacts that changing technology and 
competition are having on our customers, our employees and the company. 
In 2015, we opened negotiations with the  
CWA and IBEW on 28 contracts that cover  
approximately 36,500 V Teamers who serve customers in our Mid-Atlantic and Northeast service areas. The company and unions continued to negotiate into 2016 to achieve new labor agreements that will continue Verizon’s history of 
providing good jobs with competitive 
wages and valuable benefits that rate among the best in our industry.
Company profile
Investing in our communities (in billions)
2013 2014 2015
Capital investment $16.6 $17.2 $17.8
Cash paid for income tax and other taxes paid $3.8 $7.2 $8.4
Salaries and wages $15.3 $16.6 $16.1
Purchases from diverse suppliers $6.3 $5.3 $4.25
Cash dividends paid to shareowners $5.9 $7.8 $8.5
Pension and other retirement payments $3.3 $3.1 $2.379 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Governance80  Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
mandatory training requirements and 
readily accessible tools. All employees  are encouraged to raise questions,  report concerns and acquire information 
about ethics. 
Our employees can take advantage of a 
global set of resources to help fulfill that commitment, including:
• The VZ Compliance Guideline, 
which is available 24 hours a day at 844-VZGUIDE or 844-894-8433  (in the U.S.), and (+)800-0-624-0007 
(internationally), or online at  
www.  verizonguideline.com.
• Our Security Control Center, operated by our global security organization, which employees can reach 24 hours  a day at 800-997-3287 (in the U.S.)  and 972-615-4343 (internationally) to 
report or inquire about issues ranging 
from international cybersecurity to  legal compliance.
• Our Reporting/Inquiry Channel for accounting matters, managed by our Internal Audit group at accountingcomplaints@verizon.com (or 
through the VZ Compliance Guideline).
• Environmental and Safety Hotlines for 
reporting emergencies, arranging for waste disposal or getting on-site help from the company’s environmental and safety specialists at 800-386-9639  (in the U.S. and internationally).
We have a strong track record of 
protecting customers’ privacy. And with 
today’s rapid pace of technological change, our commitment to maintaining meaningful privacy protection is stronger than ever.We back that up by providing employees with training and communications that explain their obligation to safeguard confidential and sensitive information. 
We go beyond spelling out the company 
policies and legal requirements. We emphasize that protecting privacy is crucial to earning and maintaining our customers’ trust.
We have a zero-tolerance policy for 
unethical business practices. These 
include bribery or corruption of any 
type. Relevant employees receive anti-corruption training and communications that clearly articulate this core principle. Our training, illustrated by practical examples, helps employees understand and comply with various anti-bribery laws, 
including the U.K. Bribery Act and the U.S. 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We instruct employees to seek legal approval before giving anything of value to a public official.
For teams with heightened compliance 
requirements, we supplement this general training with targeted communications and 
in-person training. 
Verizon’s 
corporate 
governance 
structure is rooted in our 
core values 
of integrity, respect and 
accountability.
These values are incorporated into our 
Credo and Code of Conduct, which together provide a framework for our daily operations. Our Board of Directors 
is committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance and has adopted a set of guidelines to provide a framework of effective oversight and accountability. 
View Verizon’s corporate governance 
guidelines.
Ethics and 
compliance
Our commitment to operating a 
responsible and ethical business starts with integrity.
We live up to that ideal through a 
comprehensive ethics and compliance 
program that’s built on our Verizon Code of Conduct . The program provides 
ongoing educational communications, 
81 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
Risk management
Environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) factors are among the many risk factors that we measure and manage. As part of our companywide 
risk management processes, Verizon 
tracks risks ranging from concerns over sustainable operations to privacy concerns created by the use of data in the Internet economy. By keeping track 
of our progress —  and continually raising 
our expectations in these areas —  we 
can reduce our exposure to risk while 
generating positive social impact. 
Human rights
Our Human Rights Statement articulates our respect for the broad principles outlined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which 
serves as a blueprint for global businesses 
on how to build good relationships around the world and work successfully among different customs and cultures.
Ensuring 
accountability
The Verizon Leadership Committee 
manages corporate responsibility activities across the company. The committee establishes benchmarks 
and goals, assigns and enforces 
accountability, and tracks the results for corporate responsibility initiatives. The committee —  made up of senior executives 
from various operating units and staff groups —  reports directly to Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer Lowell McAdam.Corporate responsibility activities are overseen by the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee of the Verizon Board of Directors.
Transparency is an important element of 
accountability. We strive to make it easy for our stakeholders to understand our positions and progress on issues that matter to them. For instance, we provide:
• A semiannual Transparency Report , 
which lists all the law-enforcement 
requests for customer information  
that we have received in the U.S. and 
other countries in which we  do business. 
• A semiannual Political Contributions Report that discloses all of  Verizon’s PAC contributions,  corporate political contributions  
and independent expenditures. 
• A statement on net neutrality , which 
outlines our commitment to an open 
Internet that provides consumers with competitive broadband choices and Internet access when, where and how they want it.Stakeholder 
engagement
Verizon has a diverse group of 
stakeholders —  our employees, our 
customers, our vendors, the communities we operate in, the nonprofit partners  
we work with, policymakers and other 
thought leaders — whose point of view is important to us. To refine our strategy,  we listen carefully to many different types of stakeholders and seek solutions that benefit both our business and the 
larger world. 
Our long-standing Consumer Advisory 
Board, which consists of a diverse group of leading public-interest advocates  from across the country, meets twice  a year and gives us an unfiltered view  of business and social issues. Their opinions and advice play a role in the 
development of many important policy  
and business decisions.
We generate numerous discussions 
through our website and social media. These forums provide us with valuable information that helps us to improve the solutions we offer our customers.
All of this feedback informs the  
important areas where Verizon  can help meet business objectives  while creating value for society.  Our stakeholders have indicated that access to technology, healthcare and education represent a compelling 
opportunity for Verizon to create both 
business and social value.We listen carefully  
to many different  
types of stakeholders 
and seek solutions.82 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
GRI Index
General Standard Disclosures Reference
Strategy and analysis
G4-1 CEO Letter Page 2
G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Page 81
Organizational profile
G4-3 Organization name Verizon Communications Inc.
G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Our Company
G4-5 Headquarters location New York, NY
G4-6 Where the organization operates Locations
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Verizon Communications Inc. is a corporation 
organized and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ Global Select Market
G4-8 Markets served
Countries
G4-9 Scale of the organization Who We Are
G4-10 Total number of employees by type Page 77
G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements Page 54
G4-12 Supply chain description Page 54
G4-13 Organizational changes during the reporting period Annual Report
G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives CDP/We Mean Business Commitment to Action, American Business Act on Climate Pledge, United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR)
G4-16 Membership associations CTIA, Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy (CECP), The Conference Board, Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship, Family Online Safety Institute, Business Roundtable, NJ Audubon Corporate Stewardship Council, Penn State Smeal Sustainability Advisory Board, USGBC Platinum membership
Identified material aspects and boundaries
G4-17 Entities included in financial statements Verizon Communications Inc.
G4-19 Material aspects included in the report
Page 81
G4-22 Restatements None
G4-23 Changes from previous reports in terms of scope and/or boundaries None83 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
GRI Index continued
General Standard Disclosures Reference
Stakeholder engagement
G4-24 Stakeholder groups Page 81
G4-25 How stakeholders were identified Page 81
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 81
G4-27 Topics raised during stakeholder engagements Page 81
Report profile
G4-28 Reporting period January 1, 2015 – December 31, 2015
G4-29 Date of most recent report March 2015
G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual
G4-31 Report contact responsibility@verizon.com
G4-32 “In accordance ” option, GRI Index and report assurance This report is in alignment with the GRI G4 
Guidelines. Use of the index on pages 82–85 summarizes where GRI disclosures can  
be found.
G4-33 Policy regarding report assurance
Data presented in Verizon’s 2015 Corporate Responsibility Supplement are subject to internal reviews and, for selected content, external reviews. Ernst & Young provided independent external assurance on our 2014 Scope 1, 2 and 3 (exclusively corporate travel) greenhouse gas emissions and carbon intensity. Its assurance report can be read here .
Governance
G4-34 Governance structure of the organization
Corporate Governance
G4-35 Process for delegating authority for sustainability topics from the board to senior executives and other employees CDP Response
G4-36 High-level accountability for sustainability topics CDP Response
G4-38 Composition of the board and its committees Corporate Governance
G4-39 Whether the chair of the board is also an executive officer Corporate Governance
G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the board and its committees Corporate Governance
G4-41 Board conflicts of interest Corporate Governance
G4-46 Board role in reviewing risk management processes for sustainability topics CDP Response
G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report CDP Response
G4-51 Remuneration policies for the board and senior executives Proxy Statement84 Verizon 2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
GRI Index continued
Category Specific standard disclosures Reference
Economic
Economic Performance G4-EC1 Economic value Pages 6–17 , 29–32
G4-EC2 Climate change risks CDP Response
G4-EC3 Benefit plan coverage Pages 65–68; Benefits
Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments Our Technology
G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts CDP Response
Environmental
Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption (Scope 1 + 2) Pages 35–38;  
CDP Response
G4-EN4 Energy consumption (Scope 3) Page 36; CDP Response
G4-EN5 Energy intensity Pages 34–35;  
CDP Response
G4-EN6 Energy reductions Pages 34–39;  
CDP Response
Emissions G4-EN15 GHG emissions (Scope 1) Pages 34–36;  
CDP Response
G4-EN16 GHG emissions (Scope 2) Pages 34–36;  
CDP Response
G4-EN17 GHG emissions (Scope 3) Page 36; CDP Response
G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Pages 34–35;  
CDP Response
G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Pages 34–39;  
CDP Response
G4-EN23 Waste by type and disposal method Pages 40–44General Standard Disclosures Reference
G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Proxy Statement
Ethics and integrity
G4-56 Code of conduct Our Company
G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior Our Company85 Verizon  2015  Corporate Responsibility Supplement
www.verizon.com/about/responsibility
GRI Index continued
Category Specific standard disclosures Reference
Transport G4-EN30 Environmental impacts from product distribution 
and employee travelCDP Response
Supplier Environmental G4-EN32 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria Pages 54–56
Social 
Social sub-category:  
Labor practices & decent work
G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Pages 65–68; Benefits
G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days, 
absenteeism, and work-related fatalitiesPage 70
Training & Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training for employees Page 69
Labor Practices Grievance MechanismsG4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices
Page 78
Social sub-category:  
Human rights
G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights Policies
Supplier Human Rights AssessmentsG4-HR10 New suppliers screened for human rights
Page 54; Supplier Code of 
Conduct
G4-HR11 Human rights impacts in the supply chain Supplier Code of Conduct
Social sub-category:  
Society
Local Communities G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact 
assessments and development programsPages 71–78
Public Policy G4-SO6 Political contributions Political Contributions Report
Supplier Assessment for Impacts on SocietyG4-SO9 New suppliers screened for impacts on society
Supplier Code of Conduct
Social sub-category:  
Product responsibility
G4-PR5 Surveys measuring customer satisfaction Customer Service
Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Privacy Policy