2012  
CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY 
SUPPLEMENT
2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY1
INTRODUCTION TO SHARED SUCCESS 3
POWERFUL ANSWERS   5
Healthcare    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 5
mHealth and Secure Identity Systems   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 5
Tools to Deliver Critical Data at the Point of Care    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 5
Promoting Healthy Lifestyles Across Generations   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 6
Leveraging Technology to Improve Healthcare   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 7
Mobile Medical Care for the Most Vulnerable     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  8
A Framework to Measure Social Value   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 9
Measuring the Social Value of Our Philanthropic Work   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  10
Moving Forward   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  11
Education   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 12
Preparing Students for Technology Careers    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  12
Verizon Innovative Learning Schools  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  12
Verizon Innovative App Challenge    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  12
Thinkfinity  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  13
National Academy Foundation   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  13
High Marks for the Digital Classroom     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  14
Energy Management   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 16
Using Our Networks to Remotely Manage Energy Use    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  16
Protecting the Environment      .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  17
Clear Goals. Real Metrics. Solid Results.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  17
Progress on Carbon Intensity Goals    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  18
Greening the Verizon Fleet  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  19
Processes: Reducing Environmental Impact    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  20
People: Energizing the Community  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  23
Broadening the Reach of Energy-Saving Technologies    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  24
WHO WE ARE   25
Community Impact    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 25
Supporting Verizon’s Employee Volunteers  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  25
Domestic Violence Prevention   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  25
Verizon’s Pro Bono Program    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  26
Pro Bono Volunteers: “It Sure Felt Like We Were Family”   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  27
Making Our Technology Accessible to Everyone    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  282012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY2
Tools to Keep Families Safe Online  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  29
Supplier Diversity   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  30
Network Resilience     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  30
Empowering Employees  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  31
Career Development  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  31
Diversity  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  31
Culture and Engagement  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  32
Safety   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  32
PROFILE & PERFORMANCE 33
Key Performance Indicators     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  33
Company Profile   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 37
Employee  Profile     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  38
Awards and Honors   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 392012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY3
INTRODUCTION 
THE WORLD’S BIGGEST CHALLENGES DESERVE 
EVEN BIGGER SOLUTIONS
Verizon’s Shared Success Strategy
We believe there are tremendous opportunities to grow our business by applying our 
innovative technologies to help solve important social issues. Creating powerful answers to 
societal challenges in energy management, healthcare and education is what we call “Shared 
Success” — leveraging the power of our networks, technology and people to create long-
term shareowner value by addressing the needs of the customers and communities we serve. 
Through our Shared Success strategy, we:
■■Identify and accelerate deployment of technology solutions that create the greatest 
shared value resulting in increased revenue and quantifiable social impact; and
■■Use innovative philanthropy to accelerate the deployment of our technology into 
underserved communities to become an incubator of social change.
Entering New Markets
The social challenge — improving energy efficiency, managing chronic disease or improving 
achievement in STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) — creates the market 
opportunity. The challenge informs our product-development process and helps us to identify 
additional market and revenue opportunities.
In 2012, we acted on these challenges by developing new products that apply our unique 
technology. We acquired Hughes Telematics, a leading provider of remote energy-management 
solutions in order to provide tools that enable customers to take control of their energy use. 
We’ve entered the healthcare market with a product called Verizon Universal Identity. We 
initiated development of a mobile healthcare (mHealth) platform that will launch in 2013. 
Combined with our cloud platform, our mHealth solutions will give clinicians and patients 
a better tool for managing chronic diseases such as congestive heart failure and diabetes. 2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY4
An Innovative Approach to Philanthropy
In parallel, we fundamentally changed our Foundation’s philanthropic strategy to align 
with our business’ entry into new energy management, healthcare and education markets. 
Through a focused model that includes grants and in-kind giving of our technology, as well 
as partnerships with leading nonprofit organizations, the Verizon Foundation aims to become 
an incubator for new social solutions to demonstrate the efficacy of our products in real-
world settings while accelerating deployment of our technology to underserved communities. 
We also began work on developing metrics that measure the financial value and social impact 
of our new product offerings. Within our business, we started with our mHealth product 
and developed measures to track its societal impact. When we launch the mHealth product, 
we will work with our customers to mine and capture data that will enable us to determine 
ways in which chronic care patients are better able to manage their conditions. The results 
help inform product development, identify additional market opportunities and calculate 
societal value. 
Similarly, the Foundation has developed a robust set of metrics that measure the ability 
of our products and services to create shared value for our philanthropic partners in the 
communities we serve. 
Sustainability
We have reported on our energy usage and efficiency for more than a decade, and we 
continue to make progress toward our long-term goal of reducing our carbon intensity by 
50 percent over our 2009 baseline. In 2012, we reduced our carbon intensity by an additional 
10 percent, bringing the cumulative reduction to more than 37 percent. To put this in context, 
our energy efficiency measures to date have enabled us to increase the data on our network 
by 50 percent, while only increasing our electricity usage by 2 percent.
 
We also created an important new goal that will help us minimize the environmental impact 
of our supply chain. By 2015, 40 percent of our supplier spending will be with firms that 
measure and set targets to reduce their carbon emissions. 
To help you learn more about our 2012 corporate responsibility performance, the following 
pages provide more detail about our Shared Success strategy — our products, our philanthropic 
strategy and our metrics. 2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY5
POWERFUL ANSWERS 
TRANSFORMING HEAL THCARE DELIVERY
Verizon is focused on bringing new solutions and social 
innovation to healthcare, expanding the market for our services 
and improving the lives of customers and consumers
We see solving healthcare problems as a significant new market opportunity for our business. 
We are creating a number of new products that we believe will create both shareowner and 
societal value.
SOLUTIONS LAUNCHING SOON 
mHealth and Secure Identity Systems
mHealth:  In 2013 we plan to launch our mHealth platform, which will give clinicians and 
patients a better tool for managing chronic diseases such as congestive heart failure and 
diabetes. Combined with our cloud platform, we will have a secure, private way for doctors 
to monitor patients between check-ups. This will help keep patients healthier, while reducing 
medical costs for unexpected trips to the emergency room.
Verizon Universal Identity:  Healthcare providers must now store, process and share high 
volumes of digital information — all regulated, private and sensitive. Verizon Universal Identity 
provides a set of secure identity credentials for healthcare professionals that allow them safe, 
convenient access to a variety of cloud-based health IT platforms, including electronic medical 
records, e-prescribing services and health information exchanges. 
Smart Medical Alert Bracelets:  Verizon has redesigned the medical alert bracelet by adding 
Verizon’s 4G LTE connectivity in combination with Near Field Communication technology.  
A single tap on a medical band can quickly retrieve vital medical information. Wearers can 
add, update and synch critical medical information right to their HIP (HealthID Profile) and 
bracelets. In a medical emergency, a wearer’s health data can be communicated even if they 
can’t share it.
SOLUTIONS IN THE PIPELINE
Tools to Deliver Critical Data at the Point of Care
Verizon and In Motion Technology are enhancing the communications that takes place 
between doctors, patients and emergency responders during the “golden hour” — the first 
60 minutes after an accident when patient treatment is critical.
2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / TRANSFORMING HEAL THCARE DELIVERY 6
Working with In Motion, Verizon is delivering critical data at the point of care — the emergency 
vehicles. Vehicles equipped with mobile routers can be dispatched with efficiency to accident 
scenes. The vehicles will also function as mobile hotspots, allowing techs to transmit vital 
patient data over our 4G LTE network back to the ER doctor at the hospital. 
The results: shorter response times, faster patient care and improved outcomes. 
HELP DOCTORS STA Y ON TOP OF NEW MEDICAL RESEARCH
Verizon and NantHealth have teamed up to connect oncologists to the latest cancer research, 
helping them keep up with the staggering amount of medical data surrounding cancer 
treatments and, ultimately, yielding better options and more hope for cancer patients. 
Using eviti — a solution using Verizon’s 4G LTE network and cloud services, and the intelligence 
of NantHealth — oncologists can learn about the most current cancer regimens and treatments 
and protocols, offering better options, more hope and potentially better outcomes for patients.
Promote Healthy Lifestyles Across Generations
In 2012, Verizon joined the Clinton Foundation, GE and Tenet Healthcare in forming the Clinton 
Health Matters Initiative (CHMI), a sweeping effort to improve health in the United States.
CHMI will work intensively with communities — beginning in California’s Coachella Valley 
and the Greater Little Rock area in Arkansas — with an aim to implement a locally developed 
blueprint for action based on each community’s unique health indicators.
CHMI has created an online platform ( clintonhealthmatters.org ) so people can lead local 
wellness efforts in their communities. These efforts will include free exercise classes or walking 
groups in high-poverty areas, the extension of farmers’ markets and sponsorship of tobacco 
cessation programs.
CHMI is inviting corporations and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to make pledges 
focused on instituting business practice changes or community investments that will improve 
the health of their workers and larger community, or to invest in community programs aimed 
at health and well-being.
MEASURABLE OUTCOMES
The measurable health outcomes for communities working with CHMI include
■■Improvement in key preventable disease measures and health and well-being 
indicators;
■■Reduced healthcare costs associated with preventable disease; 
A portable wireless 
electrocardiogram unit 
from In Motion Technology 
could speed care after 
an accident and improve 
survival rates.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / TRANSFORMING HEAL THCARE DELIVERY 7
■■Reduced health disparities; and
■■Increased investments from individuals, corporations and organizations to contribute 
to the health and well-being of others.
Leveraging Technology to Improve Healthcare
In 2012 the Verizon Foundation announced a long-term effort to transform healthcare for 
the underserved. The aim: fund and equip non-profit healthcare groups with Verizon’s health 
information technology so they can improve care and access for children, women and seniors.
This groundbreaking in-kind effort began last year with an initial commitment to four 
organizations — the Children’s Health Fund, the Society for Women’s Health Research, the 
National Association of Community Health Centers, and the University of California-San Diego. 
The Foundation’s partnership with the Children’s Health Fund (CHF) will equip mobile pediatric 
medical units in several key cities with the latest in health information technology. The goal: 
boost access to care for disadvantaged children who are at greater risk for chronic disease 
and health problems. 
■■We will integrate our health information technology into the San Francisco, Phoenix, 
Dallas, Miami, New York and Detroit CHF programs — specifically, mobile pediatric 
medical units that provide primary care in partnership with a hospital or other 
medical affiliate. 
■■These units will be equipped with our Virtual Visit technology, for example, which 
enables healthcare providers to connect patients to their medical affiliates or to 
specialty care as the unit visits schools and shelters.
The Verizon Foundation’s partnership with the Society for Women’s Health Research will 
focus on deploying a disease-management solution via a mobile device. The solution will be 
designed for underserved women who face socio-economic barriers in accessing healthcare.
■■The health group will be working on this project with the community hospitals 
associated with the medical facilities at Johns Hopkins University, UCLA, Harvard 
University and Emory University. 
Our partnership with the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Jersey will train 
more than 300 medical professionals about domestic violence and how to screen patients 
for abuse, document information and provide resources and referrals.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / TRANSFORMING HEAL THCARE DELIVERY 8
HELPING THE UNDERSERVED
Mobile Medical Care for the Most Vulnerable
The technology that most of us are using to text, tweet and download is having an enormously 
positive effect in healthcare — particularly for the most vulnerable in our society, disadvantaged 
kids.
Caring for children who have the hardest time accessing quality healthcare has been the 
long-time mission of the Children’s Health Fund (CHF). The New York City-based organization 
has been delivering comprehensive medical services to these children for more than 25 years, 
operating primary care programs around the country and becoming a fixture in the urban and 
rural landscape with its now legendary “big blue vans” — i.e., mobile pediatric medical units. 
The “mobility” of these high-tech vehicles, however, has taken on new meaning.
Verizon is equipping many of the CHF vehicles with 4G LTE wireless technology. The effort 
is designed to boost access to care for children who are at greater risk for chronic disease 
and health problems.
Although it was launched in 2012, the Verizon-CHF partnership has already “changed life 
dramatically,” according to CHF Medical Director Delaney Gracy. 
“We’re often asked to help with vaccine records for kids,” said Gracy, who cared for children 
in homeless and domestic violence shelters from 2005 to 2010 as a CHF pediatrician. “Schools 
here won’t enroll children without immunization records. So there were a lot of parents 
coming into the shelters saying, ‘my child has been out of school for two weeks because no 
one has records of his vaccines.’ 
“Our staff would get on the phone to the city’s vaccine registry. Invariably, it would take 15 
to 30 minutes to find the right person. Or sometimes we’d have to call back in a few hours. 
Once the right record was found, it was a fax-only system. And getting the fax to a mobile 
unit or a shelter and then to the parent presented its own problems.” 
“The process was hard, and it added to the stress of the kids who just wanted to get back to 
school and their friends and not fall behind or feel like they were being left out.” 
Verizon’s wireless technology has helped rewrite this story. 
“Once we got 4G wireless and the ability to connect to a city-wide immunization roster, we 
were able to help these kids in real-time,” said Gracy. “I can do it myself sitting in the van. 
And since we have access to electronic health records, I can also check the kid’s lead levels 
while I’m at it and see if we need to do any additional lab work.FEATURE  STORY
Verizon is working with 
Dr. Delaney Gracy and 
the Children’s Health 
Fund to equip mobile 
medical units with 4G L TE 
wireless technology to 
boost access to care for 
children.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / TRANSFORMING HEAL THCARE DELIVERY 9
 “Having this kind of connectivity means the kid can get back to school where he belongs 
and the parent feels good about taking care of their child. And as a physician, it means I’m 
able to examine three or four other kids that I wouldn’t have seen otherwise,” she said.
Wireless connectivity and access to electronic health records are just the start of the Verizon-
CHF partnership. A pilot program is underway in South Florida to add Virtual Visit technology, 
which will enable CHF providers to connect patients visiting the mobile units with specialists 
at a medical facility via video links. The partnership is also exploring how low-cost wireless 
technology like texting can be used to improved communication between patients and 
physicians.
Gracy foresees the day when mobile technologies can be used to help overcome social and 
cultural barriers, finding applications that not only will boost participation but also improve 
how well patients adhere to care regimens. 
“Most people have a phone. It’s a lifeline that we believe will help us find appropriate, safe 
and respectful pathways to care,” said Gracy. 
A Framework to Measure Social Value
As outlined in Verizon’s 2011 Annual Report, we initially focused on creating a framework 
for tracking both the business and social value of our efforts in the healthcare sector with 
our mHealth products. 
Our challenge is to develop accurate measures of what constitutes value to the community 
as well as value to our business. To be meaningful, all measures must be solid, quantitative 
and integrated into traditional measures of market success. 
Developing such a framework involved three steps:
■■Working with our stakeholders to identify pressing social challenges, their scope and 
relevance; 
■■Investing appropriate resources in developing products/services, understanding and 
addressing any policy issues; and 
■■Formulating the metrics to gauge both the business and social value of our various 
endeavors. 
Our healthcare products will be the first out of the gate, so we developed this initial framework.FINANCIAL
METRICSSOCIETAL
METRICS
2004 2005
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 201217
Mb/s17
Mb/s17
Mb/s25
Mb/s25
Mb/s40
Mb/s50
Mb/s90
Mb/s300
Mb/s
Tier 22004 2005
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 201217
Mb/s17
Mb/s17
Mb/s25
Mb/s25
Mb/s40
Mb/s50
Mb/s90
Mb/s300
Mb/s
Tier 22012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / TRANSFORMING HEAL THCARE DELIVERY 10
SHARED SUCCESS METRICS FRAMEWORK FOR HEAL THCARE
Desired Impact Lower costs, improved clinical outcomes for chronically ill patients
Social 
ObjectivesLower costs, quality care for the underserved, improved access to physicians
Solutions/
ProgramsmHealth Products Verizon Foundation Healthcare
Metrics: 
Business Value- Revenue growth 
- Market penetration 
Metrics: Social 
Value- % reduction of in-patient admissions
- % reduction in avoidable ER visits
- % reduction in duration of hospital stays
- Savings - Increased access to providers
- Increased technology proficiency
-  Improvements in chronic disease 
management success 
We will continue to refine our strategy and our metrics, and extend our social value measurement 
frameworks to other products as they approach deployment.
Measuring the Social Value of Our Philanthropic Work
In our Shared Success strategy, we have refocused the Verizon Foundation to become a 
channel for innovation and social change. Just as Verizon’s Innovation Centers have become 
an incubator for new business solutions in the marketplace, the Verizon Foundation aims to 
become an incubator for new social solutions and best practices in applying our technology 
to underserved communities. 
The Verizon Foundation has identified metrics to gauge the impact its healthcare, education 
and energy-management programs are having in the community. 
MEASURING SOCIAL VALUE IN PHILANTHROPY
Healthcare Education Energy Management
Short-term   
 (3-6 months)Number of providers in 
programNumber of students in 
programNumber of sites in program
Number of patients in 
programNumber of educators in 
programNumber of participants in 
program
Medium-term   
(6-9 months)Increased access to 
providersIncreased STEM* 
engagementIncreased energy 
conservation awareness
Improved technology 
proficiencyIncreased technology 
proficiencyIncreased technology 
proficiency
Improved energy behaviorsIncreased STEM 
achievementImproved disease mgmt. 
adherence2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / TRANSFORMING HEAL THCARE DELIVERY 11
Long-term   
(12+ months)Improved health outcomes More STEM careers Reduced energy/fuel 
consumption
Lower energy costs
Decreased carbon 
emissionsReduced healthcare costs Greater earnings 
potential
* Science, technology, engineering, math
Moving Forward
Our measurement strategy is still in its initial phase. Our Universal Identity Service was 
launched in September 2012. Our mHealth product is currently undergoing regulatory review 
and we expect to launch it later this year. During 2013, we will gather relevant data on the 
performance of our healthcare products and use the data to assess the social value of our 
efforts. We will apply what we learn to improve our products, define new market opportunities 
and, ultimately, provide greater value for both our business and our communities. 
In 2013, we will refine our Shared Value metrics framework with the help of academic forums 
such as Michael Porter’s Shared Value Initiative and other academic institutions focused on social 
entrepreneurship. For example, a team of Babson College graduate students will collaborate 
with Verizon product managers to help develop metrics for healthcare products. The team 
will also help identify strategies for capturing data that enable us to apply the metrics. In 
addition, the Verizon Foundation will be using these metrics to measure the impact of its 
work with its partners in the healthcare area. 
As we identify and develop energy and education products, we will develop corresponding 
metrics that assist us in determining our ability to deliver business and social value.
Moving forward, we will report on the shared value that our business is creating through its 
products and that the Foundation is delivering through its partnerships. Creating a healthy, 
sustainable society is the surest path to creating a healthy, sustainable business.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY12
POWERFUL ANSWERS 
EDUCATION
We believe our technology can transform education through a 
broadband-enabled ecosystem of learning that increases 
student engagement and expands access to the tools of the 
digital economy
Preparing Students for Technology Careers
The Verizon Foundation is using our digital know-how to boost students’ interest and 
achievement in science, technology, engineering and math. The tools: mobile technology, 
free interactive digital content and teacher training.
The Verizon Innovative Learning Schools  (VILS) Program helps teachers take our mobile 
technology into the classroom.
■■We are training teachers to integrate mobile devices into classroom instruction on 
science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) subjects. This year, more than 
100 math and science teachers in 12 schools across the country are participating.
■■The training — provided by the International Society for Technology Education via a 
grant from the Verizon Foundation — consists of a year-long curriculum with onsite 
and online instruction. The focus: effective, innovative use of mobile technologies in 
the classroom.
■■Each school receives a grant to participate in the training, to prepare a Technology 
Coach and to purchase tools — such as digital textbooks and microscope — that 
extend the use of their mobile devices.
The Verizon Innovative App Challenge  is a national contest for middle- and high school 
students created by the Verizon Foundation to further encourage students’ interests in STEM 
subjects.
■■471 teams of students took up the challenge, which involved developing original 
concepts for a mobile app that incorporates STEM knowledge and addresses a need 
or problem in their school or community. 
■■Five middle school and five high school teams will be chosen as winners by a panel 
of judges from business, industry and academia.
Teachers at Charles 
Carroll Middle School in 
Prince George’s County, 
Md. are part of a year-
long training program 
that prepares them to 
effectively use mobile 
technology and digital 
content.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / EDUCATION 13
■■Each winning school will receive a $10,000 grant to further STEM education. 
Students on the winning teams will receive a tablet computer, provided by Samsung, 
and training by the MIT Media Lab to develop their concept into an app.
Thinkfinity  (www.thinkfinity.org ) is an award-winning, online educational platform with tens 
of thousands of free materials designed to help teachers use technology to increase student 
engagement and boost achievement.
■■The site offers rich, interactive content — including K-12 lesson plans, in-class 
activities, webinars, games and videos — developed in partnership with the 
country’s leading educational organizations.
■■In 2012, we had more than 35 million visitors to Thinkfinity and its partner sites.
■■Thinkfinity also has a robust online professional learning community of more than 
64,000 educators who collaborate and share best practices.
The National Academy Foundation  (NAF) is a long-standing partner in boosting achievement 
in STEM. NAF is an acclaimed network of career-themed academies that open doors for 
underserved high schools students to academic success and viable careers. NAF academies 
integrate traditional high school studies with a focus on one of five career themes — finance, 
health sciences, hospitality and tourism, information technology and engineering. NAF’s 
primary objective is to ensure high school students are both college and career ready. 
■■The Verizon Foundation is a premier partner of NAF. Our support includes employee 
volunteerism, mentoring, and representation on NAF’s Advisory Boards. Verizon 
Chairman and CEO Lowell McAdam is on the NAF Board of Directors. 
■■Verizon’s partnership with NAF has resulted in many benefits. Verizon engineers 
and technologists have mentored students with an emphasis on pairing female and 
minority students with Verizon role models; and Verizon has hosted a number of 
on-site career days. 2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / EDUCATION 14
VERIZON INNOVATIVE LEARNING SCHOOLS
High Marks for the Digital Classroom 
After using mobile technology in her 9th grade biology lessons for the first half of the school 
year, Marybeth Coen is convinced. Integrating technology in the classroom is having an 
enormous impact on students’ learning and on her skills as an instructor. And she has proof.
At Coen’s school — the Killough Campus of Lewisville High School in Lewisville, Texas — 
students who don’t complete homework or are otherwise behind in their classroom assignments 
receive after-school instruction. “At Killough, we call this Wednesday Night School,” said Coen. 
“Last year, I was sending eight to 10 kids to Wednesday Night School every week just for 
biology. This year, I’ve sent two kids there the entire year.”
The data isn’t scientific, but the remarkable turnaround speaks volumes to Coen and her 
colleagues. Simply put, their students have bought-in to using mobile technology in class 
and it has sparked their motivation. As a result, they are learning more and doing better. 
The infusion of technology at the Lewisville school is the result of a pioneering endeavor 
by the Verizon Foundation. The Killough Campus is one of 12 schools across the country 
participating in the Verizon Innovative Learning Schools (VILS) Program. A VILS grant funds 
teacher training on using mobile technologies in the classroom for science and math subjects 
and the dedicated support of a “technology coach.”
The “technology coach” at Killough is Natalie Spangler. As she explains, when students are 
using mobile devices as part of their instruction they take on an active versus passive role. 
“Instead of receiving information from a teacher or textbook, they are shifted into thinking 
about information, making choices about which app to use for generating or displaying 
information, looking to the teacher to facilitate as well as lead,” Spangler said. 
“It puts the responsibility for learning on them. And it’s working,” she said.
As an example of this shift, Coen starts each of her biology units with a special review to 
gauge students’ prior knowledge. Students are formed into teams and asked to use their 
mobile devices and apps to create a 2-minute presentation, either video or PowerPoint, on 
the subject. Thirty minutes is devoted to the assignment. 
“Every team then delivers their presentation,” said Coen, “which gives me a much better 
picture of what they know and what they don’t know. So I can take a direction on the unit — 
whether it’s cell structure or photosynthesis — that’s better suited to what the students need.FEATURE  STORY
Instructors Marybeth 
Coen and Natalie 
Spangler of Lewisville 
High School in Texas 
are seeing remarkable 
results from students 
using mobile technology 
in their studies.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / EDUCATION 15
“As a teacher, this forces me to dig deeper to make my lessons better and more in-depth,” 
said Coen. 
Coen uses the mobile technology every day in her classroom. Many of her colleagues are 
doing the same. In other words, at Killough there’s no more doodling in your spiral notebook 
while the teacher lectures or the video runs.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY16
POWERFUL ANSWERS
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
From vehicles to homes, our technology gives our customers 
more control over their energy use .
Using Our Networks to Remotely Manage Energy Use 
Information Communications Technology (ICT) provides an answer to one of the fundamental 
challenges of this century: namely reducing emissions while maintaining economic growth 
and improving quality of life (see SMARTer2020 Report, gesi.org/SMARTer 2020 ). 
Telecom services that enable machines to monitor and control other devices, such as remote 
water meter reading or GPS vehicle routing, are reshaping the commercial landscape. In 2012, 
Verizon has moved into the fast lane of this market with a highly advanced automotive/fleet 
management service. 
■■Networkfleet , acquired as part of our purchase of Hughes Telematics, offers a 
wireless service that connects directly to a vehicle’s engine. Fleet managers can 
remotely monitor engine diagnostics and emissions. A GPS feature tracks routes 
and vehicle locations as well as monitors driving speeds and idling time. The Eastern 
Municipal Water District in Riverside, Calif., reported fuel savings of nearly $80,000 
in its 350-vehicle fleet within the first six months of operation and a $354,000 
reduction in labor costs as drivers spent fewer hours on the road.
■■A trash-bin monitoring system powered by Verizon’s wireless network provides 
collection crews with real-time data on the status of city trash and recycling bins.. 
With this solution from partners such as BigBelly Solar , trash collection can be 
managed much more efficiently as collectors can limit trips and cover a larger area 
with fewer resources — with no overflows or litter. 
Our 4G LTE wireless high-speed Internet service connects a powerful line-up of devices to 
provide anywhere, anytime control of everything from HVAC systems to appliances and 
security alarms.
■■Customers of Lowe’s Iris Smart Home System  will now be able remotely monitor 
and manage their homes. Verizon’s wireless connection will eliminate the need for a 
wired broadband connection.
■■The Home Area Network Energy Gateway is a meter-less, self-installed smart-grid 
solution that enables consumers to connect to the Internet to manage the energy 
use for plugged-in devices at home. Users can turn appliances on or off remotely, 
set schedules and control home temperature from a smartphone or web browser.
After installing 
NetworkFleet’s system, 
the Eastern Municipal 
Water District in 
Riverside, Calif., reported 
fuel savings of nearly 
$80,000 within the first 
six months. 2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY17
POWERFUL ANSWERS
PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 
We’re exploring every avenue to minimize the environmental 
impact of our operations .
Clear Goals . Real Metrics . Solid Results .
Our global network includes 46,232 cell sites, 21,866 facilities and a fleet of 35,837 vehicles. In 
2012, we established five new environmental goals to minimize the impact of our operations. 
LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
Goal Status
Reduce carbon intensity by 50% by 2020  
(2009 baseline). 10.1% reduction in 2012;  
37.48% reduction since 2009. 
Expand the Green Team to 15,000 members by 2014. 10,100 members at year-end 2012.
Collect more than 2 million pounds of e-waste through 
recycling events by 2015 (2010 baseline).1.1 million pounds of e-waste collected since 
2010.
Receive ENERGY STAR certification on 90% of eligible 
retail stores by 2013.Complete.
Certification awarded to 116 retail stores 
(100% of eligible stores) at year-end 2012.
Earn LEED* status for 100 retail stores by 2012.Complete.
131 retail stores had earned LEED status by  
YE 2012; 71 stores were certified in 2012.
Increase our device recycling rate to 33% by 2015** New for 2013
Modify all accessory packaging to only use paper 
content that is recycled or comes from responsible 
sources^ by 2013.New for 2013
Devote 40% of our supplier spending with firms that 
measure and set targets to reduce carbon emissions by 
2015.New for 2013
Expand carbon reporting to include a major Scope 3 
category: business travel.New for 2013
Implement 10MW of green energy by 2014. New for 2013
*The Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) program of the U.S. Green Building Council. LEED certification indicates a building was 
designed and built to ensure energy savings, water efficiency, and CO2 emissions reduction among other quality measures.
**The 33% includes devices collected via Trade-in and HopeLine programs as well as warranty (replaced like new devices) and insurance coverage plans.
^ Paper that has post-consumer content of at least 30% recycled material or certified virgin fiber that comes from responsible sources such as the 
Forest Stewardship Council or Sustainable Forestry Initiative. 16%
30%
37%
/zero.fitted/nine.fitted /one.fitted/zero.fitted /one.fitted/one.fitted /one.fitted/two.fittedBaseline
/two.fitted/zero.fitted
CO2 / TERABYTE 
(MONTHLY AVERAGE)Goal2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 18
Progress on Carbon Intensity Goals
Verizon has reported on its energy usage and efficiency for more than a decade. To gauge 
our energy performance, we developed a methodology that shows “carbon intensity” — the 
carbon emissions that result from moving data across our networks. This way, we can assess 
how we are becoming more energy efficient even as our business expands. Our long-term 
goal: reduce our carbon intensity by 50 percent over our 2009 baseline by 2020.
HIGHLIGHTS:
■■We reduced our carbon intensity by 10 percent in 2012; since 2009, we have 
improved our carbon intensity by more than 37 percent. 
■■To date, our energy-efficiency measures have enabled us to increase the data on our 
network by 50 percent, while only increasing our electricity usage by 2 percent (see 
chart, Carbon Intensity Efficiency Results, 2009-12). 
■■In March 2013, the EPA named Verizon Wireless an ENERGY STAR Partner of the 
Year, for outstanding contributions to protecting the environment through energy 
efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction. Verizon Wireless is the first and only 
wireless provider to win this award.
VERIZON’S ENERGY EFFICIENCY RESUL TS
 2009 2010 2011 2012 % change
Terabyte throughput 67.87 million 78.65 million 88.59 million 102.47 million 50.68%
Electricity (kWh) 10.27 billion 10.24 billion 10.00 billion 10.47 billion 1.90%
CO2 (metric tons) 6.20 million 6.06 million 5.64 million 5.86 million (5.56)%
Kilowatt hour / Terabyte* 151.71 130.27 112.84 102.33 (32.55)%
CO2 / Terabyte* 0.09158 0.07716 0.06369 0.05726 (37.48)%
*monthly average
VERIZON’S 2012 CO2 EMISSIONS PROFILE
2010 2011 2012
CO2 
(Metric Tons)Percent  
EmissionsCO2 
(Metric Tons)Percent 
EmissionsCO2 
(Metric Tons)Percent  
Emissions
Vehicle fuels 430,959 7.11% 381,413 6.76% 387,723 6.62%
Building and  
other fuels204.776 3.38% 199,859 3.54% 125,081 2.14%
Electricity 5,426,863 89.51% 5,061,414 89.79% 5,342,766 91.24%
Total 6,062,598 100% 5,642,686 100% 5,855,570 100%2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 19
EMISSIONS BY SCOPE
2011 2012 Percent Change
Scope 1 581,272 512,804 (11.8%)
Scope 2 5,061,414 5,342,766 5.6%
Total Scope 1 & 2 5,642,686 5,855,570 3.8%
Scope 3 – business travel n/a 54,172
Greening the Verizon Fleet 
We implemented a variety of solutions to reduce the carbon emissions of our more than 
35,000-vehicle fleet during the past five years — adopting hybrid and alternative-fuel 
technologies, reducing idling, and establishing telematics-based operations. In 2012, we 
saved 207,653 gallons of fuel from reduced idling time. 
Alternative-fuel vehicles currently make up 6.2 percent of our fleet. Our long-standing objective 
had been to reach 15 percent by 2015; however, the market for alternative fuel vehicles has 
not developed as fast as we anticipated. Vans are a staple of our fleet and alternative fuel 
choices are extremely limited. 
We decided to reset our goal. We will now focus on taking greater advantage of fuel-saving 
technologies in conventional vehicles and by finding and adopting new fuel-saving practices. 
Despite market conditions, we are pressing ahead to find more efficient, eco-friendly solutions 
for our fleet. Most recently, we have collaborated with VIA Motors to develop an extended-
range electric cargo van that VIA expects to deliver 100 mpg with near-zero fuel emissions. 
Per vehicle, that works out to saving 750 gallons of fuel and reducing CO2 emissions by 
2.4 metric tons annually. We are currently testing two of these vehicles.
AL TERNATIVE VEHICLE PROFILE
(Total vehicles in fleet)
Vehicle Type 2010 2011 2012 
Biofuel 370 730 435
CNG 513 514 514
Electric – 10 10
Hybrid 1,007 1,303 1,267
SmartWay Logistics 12 12 12
Total Green Vehicles 1,902 2,569 2,238
We began using telematics in our fleet in 2010. In 2013, we will implement a NetworkFleet 
telematics solution for our entire fleet which runs on the Verizon Wireless network. The solution 
Verizon is testing 
extended-range electric 
cargo vans from VIA 
Motors that are expected 
to deliver 100 mpg with 
near-zero fuel emissions. 2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 20
provides location-based services and the ability to remotely monitor engine performance and 
condition. One of the more dramatic outcomes of this system: more efficient routing means 
vehicles spend less time idling. 
As part of the U.S. Department of Energy’s DOE’s “Workplace Charging Challenge” we have 
pledged to double the number of charging stations available for our employees to charge 
their personal vehicles by 2014. 
To conserve fuel and cut down on carbon emissions in its New York City operations, Verizon 
deployed 25 Mobile Garages. Up to 10 technicians can now be dispatched to work locations 
in the city via a bus. Two of the buses run on compressed natural gas, and each bus replaces 
10 lighter vehicles. We hope to expand this program. (See video: youtube/X0gfPsz06Is .)
Processes: Reducing Environmental Impact 
We are focused on finding, designing and implementing new processes that will reduce our 
environmental impact and deliver a competitive advantage in the marketplace. 
NEW ENERGY STANDARDS FOR OUR SUPPL Y CHAIN
In 2009, we were the first telecom company to set efficiency standards for network equipment 
purchased from our suppliers. We changed the game again in 2012, establishing a strategy 
for reducing the carbon emissions in our supply chain. 
Last year, we sent an extensive survey to 229 suppliers, 200 of whom provided data on what 
we believe are the most pressing areas of sustainability in our supply chain: CO2 emissions, 
solid waste management, water usage, packaging and the performance of sub-contractors. 
This landmark data was used to establish several key goals:
■■By 2015, 40 percent of our supplier spending will be with firms that measure and 
set targets to reduce their carbon emissions.
■■A comprehensive “guidance” document will be created to help suppliers understand 
our assessment process and to find ways of reducing our collective environmental 
impact.
■■New language will be incorporated in contract renewals that require suppliers to 
provide data and report on their environmental performance as part of an annual 
assessment. 
AL TERNATIVE ENERGY FOR CELL TOWERS
Verizon Wireless launched several groundbreaking energy projects in 2012 to find new ways 
of extending its wireless network to customers living in remote areas. 2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 21
There are 26 Verizon cell sites operating in the United States that are partially powered by 
renewable energy sources like solar panels and wind. We are currently testing a new hybrid 
wind/solar technology as a way to improve cell coverage.
■■A trial of this hybrid technology is underway in Salem, Mass., where Verizon teamed 
up with Wing Power Energy to erect three small wind/solar turbines on the roof 
of our building. Unlike conventional offshore wind turbines, these devices spin 
vertically, are completely silent and blend with an urban environment (see video at 
youtu.be/9EwojiggFjY ) Results have been positive, heralding a possible breakthrough 
in finding clean energy sources that will allow the company to provide cell service in 
areas that are far from the electrical grid. 
In a similar effort, Verizon Wireless partnered with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory 
to test whether combinations of solar, wind, battery and generator systems can be efficiently 
deployed at remote cell sites. 
■■Six cell sites were chosen for this review, each of which are far from the utility power 
grid and currently use propane generators as the source of power. 
■■Initial findings are impressive, promising significant savings in fuel, emissions and 
operating costs. For example, at one location a hybrid power system configuration 
could reduce fuel consumption by more than 70 percent.
GREENER PACKAGING FOR CELL PHONE ACCESSORIES 
Big changes are underway in Verizon Wireless to make the packaging for chargers, batteries, 
headsets and other cell phone accessories more environmentally friendly. The packaging 
dimensions for these products are being reduced significantly — more than 50 percent in 
some instances — to save on materials and reduce distribution and fuel costs associated with 
each product. For instance, reducing the volume dimensions of a wall charger package by 
just 16 percent boosted the units per load from 14,976 to 39,936 — a 267 percent increase 
in efficiency. 
Beginning in 2013, new packaging for Verizon Wireless branded accessories will consist of 
materials recycled from post-consumer waste or certified from a responsible source (e.g., 
Forest Stewardship Council or Sustainable Forestry Initiative). By the end of 2013, the printing 
process will only use vegetable- or soy-based inks with less than 10 percent volatile organic 
compounds. 
Verizon teamed up with 
Wing Power Energy to 
erect small wind/solar 
turbines on the roof of our 
building in Salem, Mass.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 22
THE GREEN LIFE CYCLE OF OUR PHONES
Verizon’s HopeLine program recycles and refurbishes no-longer used cell phones and accessories 
to help survivors and victims of domestic violence. The used gear is collected either by mail via 
our website, at our retail stores or through community rallies. (To learn more about Verizon’s 
Domestic Violence Prevention effort, see page 25). 
HOPELINE METRICS
 2010 2011 2012
Phones collected 1.1 million 1.04 million 1.04 million
Phones refurbished 955,000 930,000 634,000
Phones recycled 147,000 113,000 407,000
Phones donated to shelters 25,000 29,000 28,000
Cash donated from HopeLine funds $2.18 million $4.2 million $3.77 million
Note: The reason for the variance between refurbished and recycled is because near the 
end of 2011 VZ switched vendors (noted in 2011 report). The previous vendor scanned and 
counted only phones that were refurbished. Our new vendor scans every device and tracks 
both recycled and refurbished phones.
In 2012, Verizon Wireless’s Device Recycling Rate — the number of devices collected for 
recycling or repurposing per the total number of devices sold/upgraded — was 28 percent. 
Our long-term goal is to boost that percentage to 33 percent by 2015.
Our device recycling program allows customers to trade-in phones, tablets, and other wireless 
devices — regardless of when or where they were purchased — at our stores or online for a 
Verizon Wireless gift card that they can use toward a purchase or to pay their bill. Customers 
can also donate any of the proceeds to HopeLine and help victims of domestic violence. In 
2012, the first year of the trade-in program, nearly 2 million mobile devices were collected. 
Our line-up of phones includes four phones with green features: Samsung’s Intensity III, LG’s 
Cosmos Touch and Extravert, and the Motorola Citrus. 
Verizon Wireless also participates in Call2Recycle to help ensure that spent rechargeable 
batteries do not end up in landfills and the solid waste stream.
CELL PHONE BATTERY & ACCESSORIES RECYCLING
2010 2011 2012
Batteries (tons) 162.2 101.4 88.4*
Accessories (tons) 1263.98 929.61 576.2**
* The decrease in battery recycling is due to a decrease in the number of phones with removal batteries. Recycling of smartphones with integrated 
batteries are managed through our trade-in program. 
**The volume of accessories has declined due to the introduction of universal chargers and other reusable accessories.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 23
SET-TOP BOXES PROGRAMMED FOR NEW ENERGY RULES
Verizon joined a number of video service providers and device manufacturers in a wide-ranging 
agreement to meet aggressive energy efficiency requirements for set-top boxes. The Set-Top 
Box Energy Conservation agreement calls for participating companies to ensure that at least 
90 percent of all new set-top boxes purchased and deployed after January 1, 2014 will meet 
rigorous ENERGY STAR 3.0 efficiency levels. The agreement is expected to save $1.5 billion 
in annual electricity costs across the industry.
People: Energizing the Community 
We are leveraging our network of employees and customers to join us in reducing energy 
use and serve as responsible stewards of the environment.
GREATER MOBILITY AT WORK
In 2012, we established a “Mobility at Work” pilot program to provide employees wider 
flexibility in where they work. Launched at three locations (2 domestic and 1 international), the 
program enables employees to work at different locations as the needs of the business require 
 — at multiple Verizon locations, at a customer’s site, on the go, or from home.
As part of the pilot, Verizon established flexible work spaces (Verizon Mobility Centers) with 
landing spaces, “reservable” spaces, and flexible meeting spaces. Additional Mobility at Work 
sites will be added in 2013.
ANOTHER RECORD-BREAKING YEAR FOR RECYCLING 
■■Verizon held 36 recycling events at offices across the country in 2012, encouraging 
employees and their neighbors to bring in no-longer-used electronics gear, phones 
and supplies. Overall, more than half a million pounds of material was collected. 
■■Verizon’s Smart Print Program reduced paper usage inside the company by 175 
million pages in 2012 and 235 million pages since the program’s inception. This is 
the equivalent of saving more than 30,600 trees. 
■■In 2010, Verizon joined with Relan Bags to “upcycle” our used billboards. Relan 
has collected more than 50,000 square feet of vinyl from Verizon and turns it into 
reusable items such as tote bags, luggage tags, ID badge holders and mouse pads. 
TELECOM EQUIPMENT RECYCLING
2010 2011 2012
Telecom Equipment 26,400 20,500 15,168 
Paper and Cardboard 25,400 35,600 22,219
Lead Acid Batteries n/a n/a 2,456
Verizon volunteers geo-
tagged trees throughout 
Grapevine, Texas to create 
an accurate inventory 
that will help locate and 
preserve ”Living Legacy”  
memorial trees.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPOWERFUL ANSWERS  / PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 24
ENVIRONMENTAL NOTICES
2010 2011 2012
42 30 58
Broadening the Reach of Energy-Saving Technologies
The Verizon Foundation is accelerating the introduction of our energy-saving technologies 
to new communities. It will identify a number of schools, medical clinics and senior living 
facilities to participate in its energy program. Through cash grants and technology-based 
solutions, these institutions will have the tools to modify their energy consumption and 
reduce carbon emissions.
■■A school district using Verizon’s Networkfleet product can monitor the speed and 
idle time of its bus fleet, making adjustments to routes for greater fuel efficiency.
■■Technology-based “smart” building products can provide school districts with 
anytime, anywhere monitoring and control of building temperatures, making 
adjustments as needed to the HVAC systems.
■■The Verizon Foundation will also establish energy programs for low-income 
consumers. These consumers will receive technology-enabled solutions designed to 
help them use energy more effectively, including educational materials and products 
that provide energy assessments and have monitoring capabilities. 2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY25
WHO WE ARE
COMMUNITY IMPACT
Verizon is a responsible and committed community partner  . We 
encourage our employees to be involved in their communities; we 
ensure that our products are accessible to the broadest range of 
users; and we provide tools to keep families safe online .  
Supporting Verizon’s Employee Volunteers
We support employee philanthropy and encourage sustained community service through 
matching gifts, volunteer grants, support for team fundraisers and disaster-relief efforts 
via the Verizon Foundation. 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT, 2000–2012
■■More than 41,000 organizations funded by employee efforts.
■■More than $326 million donated to non-profits supported by employees.
■■More than 6.8 million employee hours volunteered. 
Domestic-Violence Prevention
Since 2000, Verizon and the Verizon Foundation have provided more than $65 million in 
grants to domestic-violence prevention organizations and shelters. We have funded training 
for healthcare practitioners and law enforcement officials so that they can better identify 
cases of domestic violence and safely provide victims with the proper medical care and 
resources for help. We have also supported initiatives that encourage adult men to serve as 
role models to young men as well as programs that teach teens about healthy relationships 
and prevention of teen dating violence. 
Through a grant partnership with Laura’s House, a nonprofit organization that provides 
domestic violence-related services to residents of south Orange County, Calif., the Verizon 
Foundation funded a program aimed at raising the awareness of teen dating violence for 
young women and men. 
The Healthy Emotions and Attitudes in Relationships for Teens (HEART) Program at Laura’s 
House brings interactive workshops to schools and youth service organizations throughout 
Orange County. The workshops cover topics such as recognizing abusive behavior, dating 
violence, developing anger-management skills, establishing boundaries and building self-
esteem. The workshops are offered on a year-round basis and the organization plans to 
On Earth Day, Verizon 
employees and their 
families helped landscape 
Rutgers Gardens in New 
Brunswick, N.J. 
Verzion Wireless launched 
a new mobile  HopeLine 
app to aid in its ongoing 
mission to support victims 
of domestic violence.  2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYWHO WE ARE  / COMMUNITY IMPACT 26
host more than 125 workshops reaching more than 3,800 teens during 2012 and 2013. To 
complement the workshops, the Verizon Foundation’s grant is also assisting Laura’s House 
to develop a social media outreach strategy for teens that includes updates to its teen web 
site (laurashouse.org/lhteen ). 
Additionally, Verizon employees serve as volunteers with Laura’s House and have assembled 
backpacks, Easter baskets, participate in its holiday food drive and helped translate its Teen 
Dating Website into Spanish.
Verizon Pro Bono Program
In 2009, we partnered with the law firm DLA Piper to create our Pro Bono program. Since 
then, Verizon attorneys and staff from our Public Policy, Law and Security Department have 
donated thousands of hours of legal help to individuals and non-profit organizations in need. 
Their volunteer efforts range from teaching Street Law classes in high school to aspiring 
attorneys to representing domestic violence victims in legal proceedings and helping veterans 
reconnect to the civilian world. 
Highlights in 2012 include:
■■Street Law Program:  We expanded our Street Law program to Atlanta this year 
and plans are underway to begin one in New York City. Our employees received the 
Street Law Legal Diversity Pipeline Award and two more awards in connection with 
our partnership with Equal Justice Works. 
■■Direct Client Service Matter:  We expanded our clinics for immigrant victims of 
domestic violence to help them secure their legal status. We also added a new clinic 
at the Veterans Administration hospital in Lyons, N.J. Both of these clinics will be 
models for expansion in 2013. 2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYWHO WE ARE  / COMMUNITY IMPACT 27
IN OUR COMMUNITIES
“It Sure Felt Like We Were Family”
In the end, it became a great American story. 
A young immigrant fleeing to the United States for safety. A six-year struggle to survive. 
Life-changing advice from a helpful stranger. Resourceful volunteers who shoulder her legal 
troubles and become a surrogate family in the process. 
Verizon attorney Richard Fipphen is one of the volunteers at the heart of this success story. 
But success was a distant image when Fipphen and his colleagues first met their client.
Early in 2011 they were introduced through the Verizon Pro Bono Program to a young 
Tibetan refugee who was facing possible deportation. The client — whose identity remains 
protected — had escaped to the United States in 2005 after being raped and tortured in her 
home country. Her years in America had been bleak. According to Fipphen, she was deeply 
scarred by her experience, living a marginal existence and very scared of being arrested by 
American authorities and deported to her native country.
A chance meeting changed everything. The young refugee met a fellow immigrant on the 
New York subway and, as sometimes happens with strangers, got good advice. The stranger 
urged her to get help and directed her to an organization associated with New York’s Bellevue 
Hospital that provides counseling and medical care for victims of torture. 
Fipphen and his colleagues first met with her in March 2011. Her case had been referred to 
their team by the New York Legal Assistance Group. Soon after, they began preparing her 
application for asylum. This meant documenting the details of her story and medical condition 
and devoting weeks of preparation for an interview with an asylum officer at the Department 
of Homeland Security. That interview took place in October 2011. 
The case finally reached the Department of Justice Immigration Court in December 2012. 
Getting a trial date that quickly after the asylum interview was in itself a feat of resourcefulness 
by the team, as the court had originally set the trial for July 2014. 
“We came to the courtroom on December 17 expecting the trial to last much of the day,” 
recalled Fipphen. “But after an hour the judge told the government attorney, ‘I disagree.’ 
And to our client he said, ‘I grant you asylum. Welcome to the United States.’
“Our client was confused because the trial went so fast. She thought she had been turned 
down and was facing possible deportation. When she finally understood, she was just stunned 
and burst out crying. She had told us earlier that, with her mother and brother in Nepal, we 
were her family. And we sure felt that way,” said Fipphen.
FEATURE  STORY
Through the Verizon Pro 
Bono Program,  attorney 
Richard Fipphen took 
on the case of a young 
Tibetan refugee who was 
facing deportation.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYWHO WE ARE  / COMMUNITY IMPACT 28
Fipphen and his colleagues are now working on renewing a work authorization permit for 
their client and obtaining a green card — the pathway to U.S. citizenship and the ability to 
bring her family here from Nepal. 
“The best is yet to come,” said Fipphen. “I hope in a few years that we’ll join her for a family 
reunion at JFK Airport.” 
Making Our Technology Accessible to Everyone
We embrace a set of Universal Design Principles to make our technology accessible to the 
broadest possible range of users
Making it easier for everyone to see, hear, use and personalize their communication and 
devices is at the heart of our commitment to accessibility. We are working with a wide range 
of organizations to assist us in finding ways to approach accessibility in new ways. 
■■Our personal emergency-response system called SureResponse uses a simple mobile 
calling device to connect users to specialized care agents who direct the call to the 
right person for help in an emergency, providing peace of mind for seniors and their 
families.
■■Customers will soon be able to access first-run, video-described movies as part of 
the FiOS-TV video-on-demand library.
■■As a “preferred carrier,” we’ve partnered with the state of Nebraska to provide 
qualified residents who are deaf, hard-of-hearing, or speech-impaired with wireless 
devices — including tablets, smartphones and netbooks — free of charge with a 
state-funded voucher. 
■■A pilot project is underway that is testing the first text-to-911 solution.
■■Among our suite of services and device features for seniors and people with 
disabilities:
■■Two national service centers devoted to customers with disabilities;
■■Voice commands and menu readouts on a majority of our wireless devices;
■■Large menu fonts and keypads;
■■Simple 411 assistance for customers who are blind, have low vision or a dexterity 
or cognitive disability;
■■Video relay services, text-only messaging plans, big-button phones; and
■■A host of messaging and chat-without-talking applications.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYWHO WE ARE  / COMMUNITY IMPACT 29
Tools to Keep Families Safe Online 
MOBILE APP RATINGS
In 2012, our long-standing support for responsible ratings systems resulted in the introduction 
of a new industry-standard CTIA-ESRB ratings system for mobile apps. It exemplifies our 
commitment to giving families the best tools to manage content on wireless devices.
ONLINE SAFETY INFORMATION
We provide access to safety experts, usage controls and comprehensive security software so 
parents can appropriately monitor and safeguard their family’s wireless, online and TV use. 
Our inventory of resources includes:
Verizon Wireless Content Filters:  Free tools are available to block access to unwanted 
content. Mobile Web 2.0 gives parents the opportunity to decide what content is appropriate 
for their children.
Parental control features on FiOS TV:  Free, easy-to-use controls ensure that viewable 
programming is appropriate for all family members.
Verizon Internet Security Suite:  This subscription service protects computers, personal 
information, and children from a wide array of online threats.
Learn more at responsibility.verizon.com/online -safety
POLICIES THAT PROTECT
We listened to our customers’ concerns about privacy and safety, and created — and are 
constantly updating — policies to keep customers actively engaged and informed.
Privacy Policy:  Our respect for customer privacy, security and choice means we clearly 
communicate our privacy policies and offer customers options. Learn more at
verizon.com/privacy .
Content Policy: For content on Verizon’s networks, our goal is to help you access content you 
want and avoid content you don’t. Learn more at responsibility.verizon.com/content -policy
2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYWHO WE ARE  / COMMUNITY IMPACT 30
Supplier Diversity
Our supplier-diversity program aims to create more opportunities for certified minority, women, 
disabled, Vietnam-era and service-disabled veteran business enterprises (MWDVBEs). In 2012, 
our overall spending with diverse suppliers rose $1.46 billion, to a total of $5.26 billion. 
Network Resilience
The extreme weather events that impacted our network in 2012 reinforced the importance of 
our ongoing network modernization investment and business continuity planning. Increasing 
our deployment of fiber cable not only affords us more flexibility in serving the needs of our 
customers, but also makes our network more resilient to weather related risks. In addition 
to fiber, the deployment of backup generators and the commitment to periodic routines to 
test backup systems increases our reliability.2012 2011 2010Overall Spending with 
Diverse Suppliers
3.88 3.885.26B2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY31
WHO WE ARE
EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES
Our commitment to employees includes maintaining a culture 
that offers rewarding work, the opportunity to build a great 
career, and an empowering, respectful work environment .
Career Development
Last year we invested more than $280 million in learning and development, offering more 
than 11,000 courses. In total, Verizon employees completed 7.9 million hours of training in 
2012 — equivalent to an average of 44.6 hours per employee. In three years alone, Verizon 
employees have completed more than 25 million hours of training.
EMPLOYEE TRAINING
(average annual training hours per employee)
2010 47.8
2011 44.1
2012 44.6
VERIZON TUITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
Y ear Participants Expenditures
2010 31,741 $114M
2011 27,232 $127M
2012 23,302 $98.6M
TUITION ASSISTANCE
Our Global Tuition Assistance Program provides employees with up to $8,000 annually to 
fund higher-education studies for enhancing their careers at Verizon. In 2012, more than 
23,000 employees across the company were funded through the program. 
Diversity
In 2012, we extended our diversity policy to cover gender identity and expression. Our equal 
opportunity policy now states that we provide protection to all persons, without regard to 
race, color, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, national 
origin, disability, military status, citizenship status, veteran status or any other protected 
categories. Verizon does not discriminate on the basis of any protected classification listed 
above, or other categories protected under federal, state or local law.
2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYWHO WE ARE  / EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES 32
Culture and Engagement
We conduct biennial employee opinion surveys. Our 2012 results showed that we surpassed 
industry benchmarks for measures on culture/values, pay and benefits, corporate citizenship, 
overall satisfaction and engagement. Also, of the 18 questions repeated from the 2010 survey, 
83 percent improved in favorability. Nearly 94,000 employees responded, and we received 
more than 40,000 write-in comments.
Safety
Safety is a top priority at Verizon. We are committed to ensuring that all employees have a safe 
and productive work environment. We work continuously to keep safety top-of-mind and to 
enhance our procedures as part of making safety an integral part of our workplace culture.
Our overall safety performance on a key metric as measured by the Bureau of Labor Statistics 
(BLS) places us among the leaders for safety in our industry. In 2012, our Occupational 
Injuries & Illnesses Rate for U.S. Operations was 1.35 per 100 employees, well ahead of 
the BLS telecommunications industry standard of 2.10 and approximately 6 percent better 
than the prior year. Our safety performance is a direct result of our comprehensive safety 
management process.
BBeyond our safety management processes, we strive to create a Culture of Safety among 
all employees across Verizon through our BE SAFE behavior-based program. The focus is on 
raising safety awareness, encouraging safe behaviors and creating personal accountability 
for safety. The principles of our BE SAFE Program have been integrated into our culture, and 
we continuously communicate to employees about the Be SAFE principles to ensure they are 
a standard part of how we work. 
VERIZON INCIDENT RATES
(Per 100)
2010 2011 2012
Occupational Injuries & Illnesses Rate 1.81 2.20 1.352012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY33
PROFILE & PERFORMANCE
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
We track both the business and social value of our efforts to be 
responsible corporate citizens .
ETHICS & GOVERNANCE
What we said we’d do What we did What we’ll do next
Enhance “Privacy by Design” 
review processes in the 
development of new products 
and services enterprise-wideDeveloped customer-focused 
privacy notifications and controls 
for new offerings; continued 
educating service-delivery teams 
about privacy issues to consider 
during product development.Enhance the transparency of 
mobile application privacy 
policies and statements.
Administer Verizon Code of 
Conduct training to reaffirm 
our commitment to the highest 
ethical standards.Administered the training; 
completed by all active employees 
across the globe. Reinforce our Code of Conduct 
to all employees through 
proactive communications and 
compliance training.
Update our Supplier Code of 
Conduct.
Administer the Conflict of 
Interest Questionnaire to our 
leadership team and Supply 
Chain Services organization.Administered the questionnaire; 
completed by all members of the 
leadership team and Supply Chain 
Services organization.Re-administer the Conflict of 
Interest Questionnaire to the 
leadership team and Supply 
Chain Services organization.
Continue to work with 
the Socially Responsible 
Investment (SRI) community 
to understand best practices 
in corporate responsibility 
reporting.Engaged with SRIs to understand 
key performance indicators and 
added new supply chain and 
sustainability goals for 2013 (see 
Sustainability section for details).Update our Human Rights 
Statement and human rights 
risk-assessment process.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPROFILE AND PERFORMANCE  / KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 34
VERIZON FOUNDATION COMMUNITY IMPACT
What we said we’d do What we did What we’ll do next
Education  
 
Create digital classrooms with 
high student achievement 
in science, technology, 
engineering and math (STEM) 
subjects.Launched the Verizon Innovative 
Learning Schools (VILS) Program 
in 12 schools; funded training and 
purchase of mobile devices; more 
than 100 teachers trained who will 
reach more than 6,400 students.Expand the VILS Program to an 
additional 12 schools.
Publish findings on the impact 
of the VILS Program on student 
engagement and proficiency in 
STEM subjects.Created the Verizon Innovative 
App Challenge, fielding 471 entries 
from student teams that address a 
community problem by creating a 
new mobile app.Launch a professional 
development program for 
teachers in higher education 
that focuses on integrating 
mobile devices in instruction.Expanded the Thinkfinity community 
to more than 64,000 members; 
aligned Thinkfinity content to 
national education standards; 
updated our websites.Select the 10 winning teams in 
the Verizon App Challenge.
Expand the scope of Thinkfinity 
to include: online conferences; 
new resources for using mobile 
devices in the classroom; 
online demos by teachers on 
technology-based lessons.
Healthcare  
Deliver innovative healthcare 
solutions through technology- 
based programs in m Health, 
Remote Disease Management 
and Virtual Care.Formed a groundbreaking in-kind 
partnership to fund/equip four non-
profit healthcare groups with new 
health information technology and 
patient education programs.Launch the Verizon healthcare 
partnership at 23 sites 
across the country; publish 
assessment of the program’s 
impact on chronic disease 
management.
Address the disparities of 
access to healthcare services 
for underserved communities.Created a new framework that will 
measure the impact our health 
partner-ships will have in improving 
access for those disproportionately 
affected by chronic diseases, i.e., 
women, children and seniors.
Sustainability  
Launch philanthropic initiatives 
that emphasize smart energy 
management and increase 
sustainability awareness and 
education for underserved 
communities.Funded programs that focus on 
energy-management education for 
underserved populations, such as 
the Neighbor Works Green Living 
Certification and the United Negro 
College Fund Energy Academy 
ProgramsLaunch a comprehensive 
energy management effort for 
underserved areas that uses 
innovative technology and 
education tools to decrease 
energy consumption and carbon 
emissions.
Employee Engagement  
Increase employee involvement 
in Foundation social cause 
areas through volunteerism 
programs and events.Increased employee participation by 
60% in these areas by introducing 
new programs and new ways 
of connecting with the Verizon 
Foundation.Continue boosting employee 
participation in social causes; 
increase involvement of 
international workforce.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPROFILE AND PERFORMANCE  / KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 35
EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES
What we said we’d do What we did What we’ll do next
Conduct our biennial 
Viewpoints survey in 2012.Received nearly 94,000 responses 
from employees worldwide in 2012.Conduct our biennial 
“Viewpoints” employee opinion 
survey in 2014.
Enhance resources to address 
disparities in diabetes care and 
help employees better manage 
this condition. Enhanced outreach to target 
more first-time diabetics to raise 
awareness on the importance 
of adhering to medication and 
screenings. Develop diabetes scorecard 
to help determine gaps in 
care protocols for employees, 
specifically disparities in care.
Continue participation in the 
activities of the Health IT 
NOW Coalition that highlights 
the need for interoperable 
electronic health systems. Participated in briefings with 
policymakers; provided input 
to coalition filings that urged 
increased adoption of technology in 
healthcare. Continue to be an active 
participant in the HealthIT 
NOW Coalition, urging 
policymakers to address the 
need for interoperable systems 
in healthcare. 
Continue collaboration with 
Catalyst for Payment Reform 
members to identify and 
coordinate workable solutions 
that help improve healthcare 
quality and reduce healthcare 
costs in the U.S.Opted not to join this coalition 
although we are supportive of the 
group’s mission and goals. 
ACCESSIBILITY
What we said we’d do What we did What we’ll do next
Introduce a screen reader 
application for Android 
smartphones.Introduced new app to customers via 
free software download.Introduce new feature phones, 
smartphones and tablets with 
expanded accessibility features
Introduce a personal, mobile 
emergency response system.Launched new SureResponse service 
in 3Q 2012.Expand awareness of 
SureResponse and introduce 
new features
Introduce the voicemail-to-text 
product.Completed product testing and set 
go-to-market plans for 2013.Release voicemail-to-text 
product in 3Q 2013
Work with federal lawmakers 
and advocacy groups to shape 
the rulemaking for the new 
federal accessibility law.Actively participated in 
implementation sessions and 
briefings at the FCC.Influence implementation of 
federal accessibility law.
Offer first-run, video-described 
movies as part of our growing 
video-on-demand library on 
FiOS-TV .Forged partnership with content 
providers to provide video-
described movies on FiOS TV in early 
2013.Expand the library of video-
described movies available  
for FiOS TV .
Include audio features in  
the FIOS-TV Interactive  
Media Guide.Continued development of the 
technology.Introduce audio features in  
FiOS TV Interactive Media 
Guide in 2Q 2013.2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPROFILE AND PERFORMANCE  / KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 36
SUSTAINABILITY
What we said we’d do What we did What we’ll do next
Reduce our carbon intensity by 
an additional 10% (long-term 
goal: 50% reduction from 2009 
baseline by 2020).Reduced our carbon intensity by 
10%.Continue to reduce our carbon 
intensity in pursuit of our 2020 
goal
Continue progress toward our 
2015 goal of 15% alternative-
fueled vehicles in our fleet.Collaborated with VIA Motors to 
develop an extended-range, 100 
mpg electric cargo van. Implement 10MW of green 
energy by 2014.
Changes in the vehicle market 
have required we reset our 
target. New targets will be 
announced in 2013.Develop a new metric to measure 
the efficiency of Verizon’s fleet.
Engage 200 suppliers in Green 
Supplier surveys.Received 200 responses from 
suppliers, providing data on 
their CO2 emissions, solid waste 
management, water usage, 
packaging, performance of  
sub-contractors. Expand GHG category reporting 
to include a major Scope 3 
category, business travel.
Data was used to establish a 
2015 supply chain GHG goal (see 
“What we’ll do next”).Establish processes that support 
our goal of ensuring 40% of our 
supplier spending by 2015 will be 
with firms that measure and set 
targets to reduce their carbon 
emissions.
Make progress toward our goal of 
operating 250 “smart” buildings 
by 2015.As of year-end 2012:
131 Verizon Wireless stores had 
earned LEED* certification.Modify accessory packaging to 
only use content that is recycled 
or comes from responsible 
sources by 2013.
116 Verizon retail stores had 
received the EPA ’s ENERGY STAR 
certification.Increase the “device recycling 
rate”^ to 33% by 2015.
Publicize our energy position 
statement.Supported an update of the 
GeSI SMARTer2020 report, 
which details the critical role 
of broadband technology in 
driving sustainability ( gesi.org/
SMARTer2020 ) Make progress on our established 
long-term sustainability goals:
• Reduce our carbon intensity 
50% by 2020 (2009 baseline).
• Collect more than 2 million 
pounds of e-waste by 2015.
• Expand the Verizon Green Team 
to 15,000 members by 2014.
Formalize water savings 
strategy, implementation plan 
and success measurements.Reset as a 2013 objective Formalize water savings strategy, 
implementation plan and success 
measurements (carried over from 
2012).
Collect 1 million pounds of  
e-waste through community and 
employee recycling rallies.Collected 1,129,257 lbs. from 
Sept. 2009 through 2012
*The U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design program.
^ Devices collected per devices sold/upgraded2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY37
PROFILE & PERFORMANCE
COMPANY PROFILE
INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNTIES*
$ in Billions
2010 2011 2012
Capital investment $16.5 $16.2 $ 16.2
Cash paid for income tax and other taxes paid $3.8 $4.0 $ 3.4
Salaries & wages $15.3 $15.4 $ 14.6
Purchases from diverse suppliers  $3.8  $3.8 $ 5.3
Cash dividends paid to shareowners $5.4 $5.6 $ 5.2
 Pension and other retirement payments $3.7 $4.3 $ 4.5
*We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to the current year
2012 FINANCIALS AND OPERATIING STATISTICS
Consolidated Revenues $115.8 billion
Net Income Attributable to Verizon $8.75 billion
Operating Cash Flow $31.5 billion
Capital Investment $16.2 billion
Declared Dividends per Share $2.030
Reported Earnings per Share $0.31
Verizon Wireless
Revenue $75.8 billion
Customers 98.2 million
Verizon Wireline
Revenue (residential and business) $61.4 billion
FiOS TV customers 4.7 million
FiOS Internet customers 5.4 million
Broadband connections 8.8 million
Access lines 22.5 million
Global IP Network presence 2,700+ cities in 150+ countries
Data centers 200+ in 22 countries2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY38
PROFILE & PERFORMANCE
EMPLOYEE PROFILE
2012 EMPLOYEE PROFILE
 
Total Workforce (2012) 
Total Workforce (2011)2010 Total U.S.  
Labor Force
Ethnic Groups
American Indian/Alaskan 
Native883 0.5% 947 0.5% 0.7%
Asian 9,519 5.6% 9,335 5.2% 6.6%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific 
Islander559 0.3% 613 0.3% 0.2%
Black/African American 32,807 19.3% 35,763 19.8% 10.8%
Hispanic/Latino 17,765 10.4% 18,926 10.5% 14.2%
Two Races or More 2,884 1.7% 3,000 1.7% 1.9%
White 105,745 62.1% 112,418 62.1% 65.7%
Total US 170,162 181,002 100.0%
International 13,238 12,898
Total Worldwide 183,400 193,900
By Gender (U.S.)
Female 65,172 38.3% 70,862 39.1% 47.3%
Male 104,990 61.7% 110,140 60.9% 52.7%
Total U.S. 170,162 181,002
By Gender (International)
Female 3,137 23.7% 3,019 23.4%
Male 10,101 76.3% 9,879 76.6%
Total International 13,238 12,898
By Gender (Worldwide)
Female 68,309 37.2% 73,904 38.1%
Male 115,091 62.8% 119,996 61.9%
Total Worldwide 183,400 193,900
People of color represent 27 percent of senior management (vice president and above).
Women represent 29 percent of senior management (vice president and above).2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY39
PROFILE AND PERFORMANCE
AWARDS AND HONORS
Corporate Citizenship
In 2012 and 2013, Verizon earned the No. 1 ranking in the telecommunications sector on 
Fortune  magazine’s list of the World’s Most Admired Companies . We received the top ranking 
in 4 out of 9 reputation categories: innovation, social responsibility, quality of management, 
and quality of products/services. 
Verizon was named to CR magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens list for 2012  for the fifth 
consecutive year.
The Ponemon Institute  again ranked Verizon among the top 20 companies in its annual 
survey of the Most Trusted Companies for Privacy. Verizon has steadily improved in the top 
20 rankings since 2009, placing 11th in 2012 .
The Verizon Foundation and Verizon volunteers received the National Academy Foundation’s 
2012 Award for Exemplary Commitment to Education for mentoring NAF students, offering 
career workshops, serving on advisory committees and serving as guest speakers.
Diversity | Workplace | Innovation
For the 12th consecutive year, Verizon was named to Working Mother magazine’s 2012 list 
of the 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers .
For the 10th year in a row, Verizon Wireless has been recognized as one of the top workplaces 
for information technology professionals. Verizon Wireless placed sixth on Computerworld’ s 
100 Best Places to Work in IT 2012 .
Verizon is ranked No. 1 on Training  magazine’s 2012 Training Top 125 , a list of companies 
that have the best training and development programs for employees.
Street Law awarded Verizon with its 2012 Legal Diversity Pipeline Award for its work in 
engaging high school students to critically examine the civic system and encouraging them 
to pursue careers in the legal profession.
For the seventh consecutive year, Working Mother  magazine ranked us among the best 
companies for multicultural women . 2012 VERIZON ANNUAL REPORT SUPPLEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYPROFILE AND PERFORMANCE  / AWARDS AND HONORS 40
Verizon’s continued efforts to create a diverse workforce and an inclusive work environment 
have again earned the company a ranking on the DiversityInc  2012 list of Top 50 Companies 
for Diversity .
Verizon earned a top 10 ranking in Military Times “Best for Vets 2012” list  for our long-
standing support of military personnel.
Verizon has been named to the G.I. Jobs Top 100 Military-Friendly Employers List for 2012 , 
in recognition of the company’s military recruiting and hiring practices.
In 2012, Military Spouse  magazine ranked Verizon among the Top 20 military spouse-friendly 
companies  for recruitment, hiring practices, retention policies and programs.
Civilian Jobs News ranked Verizon among the Top 35 Most Valuable Employers for Military .
Verizon was No. 9 on Diversity MBA  magazine’s “50 Out Front” 2012  list of best companies 
for diverse managers.
Verizon’s commitment to helping employees’ lead healthy lives earned the company a spot 
on the National Business Group on Health’s 2012 list of Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles  
for the fourth time.
Surgeon General’s gold medallion: Verizon was one of eight companies recognized by the 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the White House Business Council in 
2012 for our work in reducing healthcare disparities in the workplace and for supporting a 
diverse workforce.
Environmental | Social | Governance
In March 2013, the EPA named Verizon Wireless an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year, honoring 
Verizon for making outstanding contributions to protecting the environment through energy 
efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction. Verizon Wireless is the first and only wireless provider 
to win this award. 
Verizon was named to Newsweek’ s 2012 U.S. Green rankings  for the fourth consecutive 
year, in the top 100 of the U.S. 500 ranking.
Verizon is included on the following socially responsible investment lists: FTSE4Good Index, 
Ethibel Sustainability Index and Calvert Large Cap Value Fund.
Verizon is included on the Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index, a list of 100 top-performing 
companies in the U.S. selected for their climate-related innovation and carbon-management 
programs.