Verizon Communications
Corporate responsibility report
integrity/ respect/ performance  excellence/ accountability0 9/10
   ethiCs & GovernanCe
   partnerinG  with Communities
   empowerinG  employees
   serviCe & innovation
   proteC tinG  the environment
we manage corporate responsibility with disciplined 
goals, a focus on results and a strong belief that our role 
in connecting people, ideas and opportunities is vitally important to meeting the challenges of the future. VERIZON’S CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES
our corporate responsibility approach is focused 
on five strategic priorities that we believe will have 
the biggest impact on society:  CONTENTS
 2 Making a Positive Impact on People
  Message from the Chairman
  Awards and Honors
 8 Staying Focused on Our Priorities
  Holding Ourselves Accountable
  What Others Are Saying
 24 Keeping Pace with the Challenges
  Keeping Our Network and Customers Secure
  Managing Electronic Waste
  Closing the Ethnic Health Care Gap
 32 Delivering Measurable Results
  Leading by Example
  Keeping Our Commitments
  Investing in Our Workforce
  Investing in the Future
  Achieving Sustainability
 58 Employee Profile
 60 Financial & Operating Statistics
VERIz ON  
COMMuNIC aTIONS   
2009-2010 
CORPOR aTE  
RESPONSIbIlIT y  
REPORT
Verizon’s Alex Zavatone spends his 
vacations volunteering in a remote village in Namibia, Africa where he provided students with their first 
computers. In 2009, our employees 
contributed more than 700,000 volunteer hours and donated $12.6 million, which 
was matched by the Verizon Foundation. Kristin Favale uses an 
interactive smart board to 
teach an online poetry lesson from Thinkfinity.org to her third grade class at the John F. Kennedy Magnet School in Port Chester, NY . Verizon’s award-winning Thinkfinity.org Web site provides thousands of free lesson plans and other interactive education resources.Verizon is deeply invested in using communications 
technology to connect people to the larger resources  
of the community–education, health care, accessibility  
and safety–in ways that help make lives better. MAKING  
A POSITIVE  
IMPACT  
ON PEOPLE04To our stakeholders,
We are pleased to present our Corporate 
Responsibility Report for 2009-2010. 
At the heart of our company is our 
passionate belief in the transformative power of technology and innovation. We’re acting on that belief by investing in the new broadband and wireless technologies that are remaking our society, creating economic opportu-nity and expanding access to the fruits of the digital age. In 2009, we invested some $17 billion in fiber networks, wireless broadband and high-speed Internet backbones. At a time when private investment levels are at near-historic lows, Verizon’s infrastructure investments have helped sustain local economies and will be a critical factor in creating the technology-centric jobs that will reignite growth in the economy going forward.We’re also committed to using this platform for the future to tackle the big issues confronting our society – challenges made more urgent by the current economic difficulties. When social problems grow faster than the resources necessary to combat them, the only way to bridge the gap is through innovation. That’s what we’re working with our partners to do. For example, we’re using the Internet to empower teachers through our award-winning educational Web site, Thinkfinity.org. We’re changing how health care is delivered through electronic health records, wireless monitoring devices and two-way video imaging. We’re showing how a smart infrastructure can conserve energy and make our cities more efficient. And we’re working across all our businesses to keep our customers safe – whether it’s through safe driving initiatives with 
Verizon Chairman and CEO 
Ivan Seidenberg speaking 
at the 2009 SmarterCities New York Conference where he described how broadband and wireless networks are transforming and improving civic life.   MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Courtesy Graham Carlow/IBM05respect to cell phone use, parental controls to create a safe 
space for families on the Internet, or safeguards to protect customer data and prevent against cyber–attacks.
While we’re big believers in the power of technology and 
innovation, nothing beats the impact of good old-fashioned  
human capital, which is why Verizon supports the individual actions of our employees, who are a major force for good in every place we do business. We encourage this grassroots energy by matching our employees’ donations of time and money, which in 2009 totaled more than 700,000 hours and $12.6 million. Of the nearly $68 million of charitable contributions made by the Verizon Foundation in 2009, $14.7 million went toward our support of volunteerism. The history of volunteerism extends many decades in our industry – far predating the creation of Verizon – and we’re proud that this legacy is part of our DNA.
Also part of our genetic makeup is a strong ethical code 
that guides our actions. What began as an implicit part of our identity has been codified over the years through our formal corporate responsibility program, which is over -
seen by our board of directors and run by some of our senior-most executives (see page 35 for more details). Our corporate responsibility process helps us assure that our practices keep pace with the evolving needs and expecta-tions of our customers. We have adopted a human rights policy for doing business in global markets. We continually refine our privacy policies to create the bedrock of trust and transparency that underlies electronic commerce. And we take great care to be good stewards of our own resources through responsible energy management, recycling and efficiency practices and programs. 
Clearly, there is always more work to be done – and new 
issues to address – in assuring that we live up to the high standards we and our customers have set. But because of the discipline of our approach, we have built a sustainable model for incorporating corporate responsibility into the way we manage our business.
I am grateful to our Board of Directors and our executive 
team for their leadership in supporting this approach to building long-term value for our company. I also wish to thank our employees for their efforts in a tough year. I am inspired by what they do, day in and day out, to maintain our customers’ vital human connections and demonstrate the dedication to a higher purpose that characterizes all great companies. I would also like to express our gratitude to our many partners in creating innovative solutions to the issues that matter most to our communities. As you will see in this report, they help open our eyes to opportunity and push us to new levels of achievement.
We will need all the creative energy we and our partners can 
muster as we enter the next phase of this dynamic industry because, for all the tremendous changes technology has made in our society over the last ten years, we believe we’re on the threshold of an even more innovative era to come. With a new generation of wireless broadband on the horizon and a continuing push toward a 100-megabit society, we are moving inexorably toward a fully connected world that will put the power of technology within reach of every person on the planet. 
Think about that for a minute.We have scarcely begun to imagine the immense potential 
of these new networks to create community, increase human interactions and empower individuals to live more creative, more fulfilling lives. Who would have guessed that, within 10 days of the devastating earthquake in Haiti, cell phone customers would donate $25 million simply by sending text messages? Who could have foreseen that last year more than 300,000 people in Bangladesh would sign up to learn English on their mobile phones? Who can predict the millions of ways technology will make our society greener and raise standards of living around the globe? 
At Verizon, we can’t wait to discover the answers to these 
questions and look forward to using our investment, innova-tion and imagination to create lasting value for our world.
Ivan Seidenberg    
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
Verizon  
Corporate Citizenship 
    Fortune’s 2010 list of the World’s Most 
Admired Companies ranked Verizon No. 1 in the Telecommunications Sector.
    Independent privacy security firms 
TRUSTe and Ponemon Institute ranked Verizon No. 2 in their 2009 survey of Most Trusted Companies for Privacy. 
     Verizon was named to the Dow Jones 
Sustainability North America Index 
which lists leading companies as measured by governance, social and environmental performance. Verizon is also included in the following socially responsible investment lists: FTSE4Good Index, KLD 400, Ethibel Sustainability Index and Calvert’s Large Cap Value Fund.    Swiss research firm Covalence ranked 
Verizon 30th overall in its 2009 Ethical Ranking study, which tracks overall 500 multinational corporations. 
    Verizon placed No. 27 overall in 
CRO magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens list for 2010, moving up from No. 32. Verizon made the list for the third consecutive year.
    Info Security Products Guide named 
the Verizon Internet Security Suite  the winner of the 2009 Global Product Excellence in Internet Security Solutions Customer Trust Award.
    TDI, an advocacy group for the Deaf 
and Hard of Hearing, gave Verizon its biennial James C. Marsters Promotion Award for improving accessibility to telecommunications and media.
06
Verizon’s 1.4 million-
square-foot operations 
center in Basking Ridge, NJ, has earned the U.S. EPA’s Energy Star, for placing among the top 25% of the most energy-efficient facilities in the U.S. Fifty Verizon facilities have earned Energy Star ratings so far.   2009-2010 AWARDS AND HONORS07Diversity, Workplace Excellence, Innovation 
    Diversityinc ranked Verizon on its list of Top 50 Companies 
for Diversity for the tenth consecutive year. Verizon is the only company to be named No. 1 twice (2006 and 2008).
    For the ninth consecutive year, Working Mother magazine 
named Verizon one of the 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers. Verizon was also named to the magazine’s list of Best Companies for Multicultural  Women for the fourth consecutive year. 
    For the fourth consecutive year, BusinessWeek named  
Verizon to its list of Best Places to Launch a Career.
     For the seventh consecutive year, LATINA Style ranked 
Verizon among the Top 12 companies in the Latina Style  
50, the magazine’s annual list of the best companies for 
Latinas to work for in the U.S. 
    The National Association for Female Executives (NAFE)  
has named Verizon to its 2010 list of Top 50 Companies  
for Executive Women. 
    The Better Business Bureau named Verizon the 2010 winner 
of the International Torch Award for Marketplace Excellence.
     For the ninth consecutive year, Verizon was named to 
Training magazine’s list of Top 125 Training Organizations 
in America, placing No. 4 overall.     For the seventh consecutive year, Computerworld ranked 
Verizon Wireless highest in the magazine’s annual “Best Places to Work in IT” survey.
    BusinessWeek ranked Verizon No. 30 on its list of Most 
Innovative Companies in 2009. 
    The Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption honored 
Verizon as one of 2009’s best adoption-friendly workplaces. 
    DiversityBusiness.com’s eighth annual online survey named 
Verizon as one of the Top 50 Companies for Multicultural Business Opportunities. Verizon was selected by minority  
and women-owned suppliers in an annual online poll.
    The National Business Group on Health named Verizon to its 
2009 list of Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles in the Gold Category for helping employees make better choices about health and well-being.VERIz ON COMMITMENT aND V aluES
The Verizon commitment puts our customers first by 
providing excellent service and great communications experiences. This is what we do and this is why we exist. In order to keep this commitment, we must always 
honor our core values:
INTEGRIT y 
Integrity is at the heart of everything we do. We are 
honest, ethical and upfront because trust is at the foundation of our relationships with our customers,  our communities, our stakeholders and each other.
RESPECT  
We know it is critical that we respect everyone at every level of our business. We champion diversity, embrace individuality and listen carefully when others speak.PERFORMANCE  ExCELLENCE  
We hold ourselves to a very high standard of perfor -
mance. We prize innovative ideas and the teamwork it takes to make them realities. We never stop asking ourselves how we can make the customer experience better, and every day we find an answer.
ACCOUNTABILIT y 
We take responsibility for our actions as individuals, as team members and as an organization. We work together, support one another and never let the customer—or our co-workers—down.
Great companies are judged by what they do, not  
by what they say. To be the best, we’re going to keep pushing ourselves in new and exciting directions. These values will guide our every action. 
STAyING
FOCuSED
ON OuR
PRIORITIES 
In a period during which the ground has shifted 
dramatically under the business and economic landscape, we have not wavered from the conviction that our technology, along with the energy of our people, can create lasting value for society. Verizon volunteers join 
the efforts to preserve a floodplain forest in New Jersey managed by the Great Swamp Watershed Association. Volunteering was up almost 70% in 2009 among our employees and retirees.    Continue pursuing Verizon’s listing 
on leading domestic and global SRI (socially responsible investor) indices.
   Adopt a Human Rights Statement 
and communicate to our employees, customers and stakeholders.
   Complete an update of Verizon’s 
privacy policies and communicate to employees, customers and stakeholders.
   Incorporate “reputation risk” 
assessment and mitigation process  in Verizon’s business units.
   Retrain all Verizon employees in 
the Verizon Code of Conduct to reaffirm our commitment to living our core values: Integrity, Respect, Performance Excellence, and Accountability.ETHICS & 
GOVERNaNCE
   Integrity and respect are 
fundamental at every level of  
our business—how we interact with customers, investors, the public and one another.
   Our goal is to operate our 
business with the highest level 
of integrity and accountability, building on the trust we have earned over the years.WH aT WE S aID WE’D DO OuR  PRIORIT yHOLDING  OURSELVES  ACCOUNTABLE
10All Verizon employees  
are trained to manage  our business responsibly  and ethically.    Received first-ever ranking on the 
Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index and Covalence Ethical Ranking; included in Calvert’s Large Cap Value Fund.
   Adopted a Verizon Human Rights 
Statement and distributed to emplo-  
yees and key stakeholders around the globe (http://responsibility.verizon.com/home/approach/human-rights ).
   Updated Verizon’s privacy policy to:
 •  Make it easier for consumers to read; 
 •  Provide a one-stop Web site for 
answers about our collection, use and protection of personal information (http://www.verizon.com/privac y). 
   Identified top reputation risks and 
integrated an approach for responding into our financial risk/audit process. 
   Completed comprehensive review 
of the Code of Conduct to update standards and address emerging    Develop enhanced consumer privacy 
notifications describing advertising practices on Verizon’s Web sites.
   Implement updated Code of 
Conduct and train all Verizon employees in their responsibilities to manage our business responsibly, ethically and lawfully. 
   Achieve 100% participation among 
Verizon managers selected for compliance training, including segments covering:
 • Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; 
 • Embargo and Anti-boycott issues; 
 • Export Controls; 
 • Protecting customer data.
issues (see page 34 for details).  Developed plan for training all employees in 2010. 
   Accomplished the following 
compliance- and governance- related activities:
 •  Polled selected managers on Conflict of Interest issues  (100% participation); 
 •   Developed and implemented 
training for selected managers 
on antitrust issues (100% participation);
 •   Developed and began implementa -
tion of new, company-wide training 
for protecting customer data;
 •  Published 2009 record of  political contributions online (http://responsibility.verizon.com/home/information/political-contributions). 
   Received reviews on the 2008-09 
Corporate Responsibility report from BSR, AccountAbility, and BeyondBusiness Ltd. WHa T WE DID WHa T WE WIll DO
   
11Protecting customers’ data is a top priority for Verizon Wireless’ Josh Gutzwiller (left).   Expand the scope and relevance of 
Thinkfinity.org by:
 •  Increasing traffic to Web site by 30%; 
 •  Adding new materials about the environment and climate change; 
 •  Training an additional 38,000 educators on using Thinkfinity.org; 
 •  Establishing a Thinkfinity.org presence (via a trained educator)  in 1,000 additional public schools;
 •  Developing and launching a pilot after-school program.
      Increase employee participation 
in volunteerism and total hours 
volunteered by 10%. 
   Achieve gains in student literacy  
via grants and related programs.
      Expand domestic violence prevention 
efforts by:
 • Boosting training for employees;
 •  Delivering information to 
customers via FiOS TV; 
 • Convening a nationwide summit.
   Increase public awareness and under -
standing of the possibilities and risks in 
the Internet culture we all now inhabit.
   Increase our spending with diverse 
suppliers.
   Improve current supplier audit tool to 
better identify risk areas and manage corrective actions.PaRTNERING WITH 
COMMuNITIES
   Verizon has deep roots as a local 
company and a long history of 
investing in our communities  
in ways that make life better  
and stimulate growth along  
our supply chain.
   We remain committed to using our 
financial, human and technological 
resources to improve the quality of life in our communities.
   Our goal is to tap the potential 
of Verizon’s wireline and wireless 
technologies to address social issues that are critical to the  well-being of our communities, as well as our business success: namely, education and literacy, family health and safety,  employee volunteerism.WH aT WE S aID WE’D DOHOLDING  OURSELVES  ACCOUNTABLE
12OuR  PRIORIT y
In 2009 we established a 
Thinkfinity.org presence in more than 1,700 schools.
   Expanded the scope and relevance  
of Thinkfinity.org by: 
 • Increasing visits 14.3% to 3.4 million;
 •  Increasing visitors 14.8% to  2.7 million;
 •  Introducing 3,650 new resources, including climate change materials;
 •  Establishing a Thinkfinity.org presence in more than 1,700 schools;
 •  Launching a pilot after-school program in Boston, Chicago  and Washington D.C. 
   Boosted employee volunteer 
participation by 68% and total volunteer hours 11%.
   Funded 58 grants devoted to  
literacy achievement that reported positive results:
 •  More than 3,600 teachers were trained on improving literacy skills; 
 •  More than 21,600 students received literacy instruction.   Broaden the reach and utility of 
Thinkfinity.org by:
 •  Increasing usage by 20%; 
 •  Integrating social networking into 
the Web site; 
 •  Training 45,000 additional educators;
 •  Increasing by 20% the number 
of schools with a Thinkfinity.org-
trained educator;
 •  Expanding after-school programs  
to 12 additional sites. 
   Help keep families safer by conduct -
ing a nationwide campaign to raise 
awareness of domestic violence, its prevention and where people can  
get help. Elements of the program:
 
 •  A documentary on a domestic violence case that ended in tragedy that will air on 350  PBS stations;
 •  Community events/programs  to be held in 10 states;
 •  Distribution of 7,000 DVDs of the film to law enforcement and domestic violence prevention agencies across the country.
   Increase both the number of 
employee volunteers and total  hours volunteered by 10%.
   Increase spending with diverse 
suppliers by approximately 4%.    Expanded outreach on domestic  
violence prevention by:
 •  Convening a fourth national summit that focused on making men part of the conversation and solution;
 •  Launching public service announcements on FiOS TV.
   Partnered with WGBH/PBS Frontline 
to create documentary and education materials that explore our digital culture (http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/digitalnation ).
   Partnered with i-Safe America to  
train more than 115,000 students  on cyber-safety.
   Increased spending with diverse 
suppliers 5.5% to $3.7 billion.
   Began development of a “Supplier 
Green Index” to replace the current supplier audit tool.WHa T WE DID WHa T WE WIll DO
13Our partnership with PBS explores life on the virtual frontier.    Continue building awareness and 
advocating for programs that close the gaps in care and outcomes for racial and ethnic minorities. 
   Engage employees to “be well” by 
encouraging better eating, more exercise, preventive care and early detection screenings.
   Enhance the company’s Healthy 
Babies program to further improve medical outcomes.
   Launch a new Career Development 
program for employees to help  
them make better career choices and decisions.
   Influence meaningful health care 
reform through our CWA/IBEW partnership, participation in the Business Roundtable’s Health and Retirement Initiative and the Health  
IT Now! coalition. EMPOWERING  
EMPl OyEES
   We are committed to ensuring 
Verizon is an employer of choice, 
with a culture that respects the individual, inspires excellence and taps the full range of talent and potential in people.
   We seek the best people—those 
with the skills and talent, diversity 
of experiences and the drive to innovate and position Verizon  as the leader in our industry. 
   Our approach is to put the tools for 
managing their futures in the hands 
of our people. In return, we offer challenging and satisfying work. WH aT WE S aID WE’D DO
14
OuR  PRIORIT y
We invested $120 million in tuition 
assistance for more than 33,000 employees in 2009. HOLDING  OURSELVES  ACCOUNTABLE   Led a national committee in a two-
year project to provide resources that help employers address the racial and ethnic disparities in health care (see page 30). 
    Expanded eligibility for our 
Healthy Babies program to more 
than 120,000 employees. We also expanded incentives to include more items eligible for reimbursement. 
   Increased the number of employees 
involved in efforts to “be well”:
 
 •  Twice as many employees are now 
registered for HealthZone, our 
online health improvement service;
 •  62% of eligible employees have 
completed health risk assessments;
 •  The number of on-site flu shots that 
were dispensed in 2009 increased 
by 36%.  Raise awareness of gaps in health 
care for people of color and women, addressing those gaps through communications and on-site programs. 
  Continue encouraging employees to 
improve their work skills and “own” their careers by investing in employee training and development. 
  Continue to drive our performance 
and values-based culture, and measure employee engagement.
  Launch a new company-wide, 
employee Intranet site to communi-cate business priorities and simplify access to work tools.
  Continue collaborating with the  
CWA/IBEW to bring about meaningful improvements in health care and implement the Patient Protection  and Affordable Care Act.   Joined the CWA/IBEW Health Reform 
Partnership in founding the Bridge 
years Health Coalition and advocated 
that health care reform address the lack of quality and affordable care for pre-Medicare retirees age 55 to 64. 
   Launched an Intranet program that 
provides model curriculum paths (“Steps for Success”) for entry-level managers. Also redesigned the online career development site, adding new content and making  it easier to read and navigate.
  Invested $330 million in training and 
development, including $120 million 
in tuition assistance.WHa T WE DID WHa T WE WIll DO
15We encourage employees to “be well” by providing health centers and offering 
discounted gym memberships.    Broaden lineup of wireless products/
services for seniors and visually impaired consumers.
   Roll out “big button” remote.
   Complete revamp of “Solutions for 
Customers with Disabilities” Web site.
   Develop a version of Verizon’s new Hub 
phone for people with disabilities.*
   Expand videophone service at 
Verizon Centers for Customers with Disabilities to serve disabled customers from more regions of the country; launch wireless call center for people with disabilities.
   Expand FiOS TV Video On Demand 
library with titles that include spoken commentary for the visually impaired.
   Expand Internet safety outreach 
to include seniors and domestic violence prevention community. 
   Create a new family Web site that 
covers Internet safety issues and information.
   Address technical and policy 
solutions/approaches to emerging wireless safety issues.
* The Hub phone was discontinued in 2008. SERVICE & INNOV aTION
   We build great networks that  
allow us to deliver communica-
tions, data and entertainment  to our customers in ways that  few companies can match.
   Our networks play a central role 
in energizing the marketplace, 
stimulating innovation and improving the quality of life  for our customers.
   Our goal is to extend the 
opportunity for broadband  
access to all a mericans.WH aT WE S aID WE’D DO
16OuR  PRIORIT y
We are extending the benefits 
of our technology to people who, for reasons of geography or physical limitations, have been slower to benefit from the broadband revolution. HOLDING  OURSELVES  ACCOUNTABLE   Launched TALKSTM—a technology 
that converts text displayed on 
a screen into speech for wireless customers who are blind or visually impaired—and a Nationwide  Messaging Plan for deaf and  hard-of-hearing consumers.
   Shifted development of a “big but -
ton” remote to a product that could 
be provided free. Slated for rollout  in 2010.
   Developed the next “senior phone”  
to complement the Coupe and  Knack models. Set for 2010 launch.
   Completed design work for 
revamped Disabilities Web site, scheduled to go live in 2010.
   Expanded videophone services to 
reach hearing-impaired customers  in Delaware, New Jersey and Penn-sylvania. Videophone call volumes more than doubled over 2008 from 589 calls to 1,505.     Establish an Assistive Technology call 
center for Verizon Wireless customers 
that will be operational by 2011.
    Launch the next generation of 
accessible phones to include a new 
version of our Senior phone and a screen reader (converts displayed text into speech) for BlackBerry devices.
   Address the product/service needs of 
veterans and returning service people by initiating services that could reroute messages during deployment and retain text and e-mails during handset deactivation. Also introduce applica-tions that streamline access to govern-ment assistance.
   Establish a partnership with National 
Braille Press as they develop a wireless book reader that would use our network to download Braille books onto a wireless device by early 2011.
   Develop content rating guidance for 
wireless applications in collaboration with CTIA—The Wireless Association.   Secured rights and other approvals 
to launch expanded line of Video  On Demand films with spoken  commentary in 2010.
   Developed Internet safety education 
materials for seniors; held series of workshops in Florida and New Jersey.
   Engaged domestic violence preven-
tion expert to “test drive” our wireless locator products.
    Developed new Web site that  
provides one-stop access to all  
of Verizon’s online safety tools  (http://parentalcontrolcenter.com). 
    Conducted an aggressive campaign 
to encourage our customers not to 
text while driving.WHa T WE DID WHa T WE WIll DO
17We’re making our technology more accessible to hearing-impaired customers 
along with the help of employees like Kimberly Grenda.   Expand the number of hybrid  
vehicles in the company fleet. 
   Conduct alternative energy trials using 
solar, fuel cell or geothermal power  in various Verizon operations sites.
   Conduct “smart building” technology 
trial to gauge internal savings and potential for new product line.
   Reduce Verizon employee business 
travel by expanding videoconferencing.
   Sign up more customers to subscribe 
to paperless billing. 
   Continue reducing CO 2 emissions 
and increasing recycling rates.
   Decommission underutilized net -
work equipment and real estate.
   Work with policymakers to identify 
new ways in which broadband tech-nology can support energy efficiency, carbon reduction and energy inde -
pendence goals.
   Continue educating our customers 
on environmentally friendly benefits of broadband services. PROTECTING THE 
ENVIRONMENT
   It’s our responsibility to minimize 
the impact of our operations by 
conserving energy, recycling and finding solutions to environmental challenges.
   We want to promote the positive 
effect of broadband technolo -
gies on the environment, such as 
enabling energy reduction through telework, e-commerce, smart grid and smart transportation solutions.WH aT WE S aID WE’D DO
18OuR  PRIORIT y
Verizon harnesses the power of 
the sun to extend our wireless network to remote areas. HOLDING  OURSELVES  ACCOUNTABLE   Increased the total number of  
alternative fuel vehicles in our  fleet from 200 to 260.
   Saved 91 million kilowatt hours of elec -
tricity and avoided over 144 million 
pounds of CO 2 emissions as a result 
of our network efficiency standards.
    Studied the use of geothermal 
energy to power cell sites; evaluated 
new fuel cell alternative and oppor -
tunities for deployment. 
    Conducted more than 36 trials of 
“smart building” technology through 
our Emerging Services Lab.
   Scheduled more than 8,000 virtual 
meeting rooms using our internal videoconferencing network that avoided 8 million pounds of  CO
2 emissions and $6.5 million  
in travel cost.
   Decreased overall CO 2 intensity  
from 64.4 metric tons of emissions 
per million dollars of revenue to  60.2 metric tons per million dollars  of revenue.    Increase the number of alternative  
fuel vehicles in our fleet to more  
than 1,800.
    Set short-term and long-term carbon 
emissions reduction targets for Verizon.
   Examine Verizon’s water “footprint” 
and develop appropriate recommen-dations for any needed conservation measures. 
   Engage with our suppliers to perform 
lifecycle environmental assessments  
of consumer devices.
   Work with our suppliers to create more 
energy efficient set-top boxes.
   Earn LEED certification (Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design) from the U.S. Green Building Council for 50 of our retail stores.    Reduced our fleet’s fuel consump-
tion by 1.7 million gallons in 2009  by cutting vehicle idling, which  eliminated 33 million pounds of  CO
2 emissions.
   Applied energy efficiency measures in 
our buildings, reducing energy usage by 84 million kilowatt hours.
   Collected 1.1 million cell phones for 
refurbishing, donation and recycling.
   Accomplished a range of smart-grid 
activities: 
 •  Undertook initiatives with  
Duke Power, Cornell University, Arizona Power, AMEREN, PEPCO, National Grid, and the cities of Lakeland, Florida and Seattle;
 •  Launched a pilot project in North Carolina with IBM, Consert and Fayetteville Public Works Commission;
 •  Joined a national effort to develop communications standards for smart–grid deployment.WHa T WE DID WHa T WE WIll DO
19Verizon began replacing gasoline-powered sedans with hybrids at the end of 2007.RESEaRCH  FINDINGS GaINING  THE  OuTSIDE  PERSPECTIVE
For the second consecutive year, 
we supplemented our day-to-day outreach to our stakeholders by engaging an independent research organization, Penn Schoen & 
berland a ssociates (PSb), to poll 
people from the NGOs, third-party organizations and think tanks that work regularly with us.
Our aim was two-fold: to capture 
their views on our social, educational and environmental activities, and to understand the social issues that are most important to them.
PSb interviewed 75 people from 
various organizations between December 17, 2009 and January 13, 
2010. Following is PSb’s report.     As in the 2008 poll, stakeholders give 
Verizon high marks for its corporate responsibility approach, programs  
and leadership (see Chart 1).
    Nearly nine in 10 (86%) rate Verizon’s 
corporate responsibility programs as good, but 12% are unsure, demonstrating the need for  
stronger communications efforts.
Chart 1
How would you rate Verizon’s 
social, educational and environmental programs?
12%33%53%
1%
 VER y GOOD
  GOOD
  FAIR
  DON’T KNOW  WHAT OTHERS ARE SA yING
20The members of Verizon’s 
Consumer Advisory Board annually review our Corporate Responsibility Report.    More than half (53%) rate Verizon’s 
corporate responsibility programs “very good, ” yet only a quarter say the company does a “very good job” of communicating its efforts (see Chart 2). 
    While there is still room for improve -
ment, stakeholders’  opinion of Verizon’s 
communications efforts improved by 5% since the last study (see Chart 3). 
2009 201070%75%
18% 18%
 VER y GOOD JOB
  BAD JOB
     The research probed stakeholders’ 
views on several specific corporate responsibility attributes to understand where they see Verizon’s performance relative to other companies (see Chart 4). The findings:
 •  When it comes to “overall respon-sibility, ” stakeholders perceive Veri-zon’s efforts to be better than other large companies (75% say “better than others”) and note the dedica-tion and interrelatedness of issues. 
 •  Stakeholders commend Verizon for 
relevant, comprehensive and potent 
charitable contributions, but cite how the company could distinguish itself by targeting new groups.
  •  Stakeholder assessment of how well Verizon treats its customers depends on their own experiences and observations and compared Verizon with others in the field. The reactions are positive, with 53% saying better than others.
 •  Similarly, stakeholders evaluate Verizon’s treatment of employees on their observations, which were positive. But awareness of this attri-bute is very low, with 41% unsure.
 •  When it comes to involvement  
in communities, stakeholders say 
Verizon succeeds at large-scale programs, but needs to be more visible at the local level.  BETTER THAN OTHER LARGE COMPANIES    SAME    WORSE     DON’ T KNOWOVER all  SOCIal  RESPONSIbIlIT y
75 16 18
CHaRIT ablE CONTRIbuTIONS
61 24 312
TREa TMENT OF ITS CuSTOMERS
53 32 411
TREa TMENT OF EMPl OyEES
44 14 141
INVOl VEMENT IN COMMuNITIES
44 34 7 15Chart 4
How would you rate Verizon’s (attribute) compared to 
other large companies such as GE, IbM, Wal-Mart , or 
Johnson & Johnson?
 Chart 2
Do you think that Verizon does 
a very good, somewhat good, somewhat bad or very bad job of communicating its corporate responsibility efforts?
 VER y GOOD JOB
  SOMEWHAT GOOD JOB
  BAD JOB
 51%24%
18%
21 Chart 3aDDITIONal FINDINGS  & RECOMMEND aTIONS  (SEE  CHaRT  5)
accessible Products & Services
Stakeholders rate this program highest among all 
corporate responsibility efforts (95% excellent/good), noting the importance of the approach, service and audience. But the company’s achievements lack visibility.Recommendation: Increase awareness and visibility of Verizon’s efforts in this space.
Domestic Violence Prevention
Stakeholders also rate the program highly (92% excellent/good), applauding Verizon for connecting technology and its assets to social issues.Recommendation: Provide more detailed information on the prevalence of domestic violence as well as specifics on donating.
Environmental Initiatives
Survey respondents acknowledge the importance and scale of the company’s efforts—particularly hybrid vehicles and online bill payments—but they want more measurable and identifiable results.Recommendation: Continue communicating initiatives and achievements, but include more numbers and the magnitude of the impact.
Internet Safety
Stakeholders acknowledge the issue’s complexity and the program’s importance and advocate for more education  on the subject.Recommendation: Integrate with other programs and teach parents how to use resources and how to converse on the subject with children.
Thinkfinity.org
Stakeholders note improved ease of use from 2009 and commend this resource for bridging the “education-technology gap. ”Recommendation: Conduct greater outreach to the underprivileged and to isolated schools.Wireless Safety
Stakeholders applaud Verizon for its leadership in wireless 
safety. But they note Verizon can’t fix this problem entirely by itself. They encourage the company to extend its leadership to include calling for solutions and additional outreach so that other companies may follow. Recommendation: Conduct more extensive campaigns targeted at teens and adults to discourage phone use while driving.
TOP ISSuE: TECHNO lOGy  
aND  EDuC aTION  OVERlaP
Stakeholders identify a top issue in the 2010 poll, expressing concern with the availability of technology to educate different segments of the population such as the elderly, underserved and disabled.
As one stakeholder comments, “We see technology 
as one of the main avenues to be able to [deliver education economically]…this technology is continuing to change so rapidly that…one of the barriers is to ensure that we’re thinking far enough ahead that we aren’t left behind. ”
22WHAT OTHERS ARE SA yING23
Accessible 
Products &
Services  Domestic Violence Prevention Environmental InitiativesInternet Safety Thinkfinity.org Wireless Safety72
236361 ExCELLENT
  GOOD
 Chart 5
based on this description and anything else you may already know about this program, 
would you rate this program as excellent, good, fair or poor?
72
2056
3256
32
20 20aDDITIONal FINDINGS  & RECOMMEND aTIONSWe expanded our Internet safety efforts to include the issues faced by older Americans. We forged a partnership with the 
University of South Florida Sarasota–Manatee in early 2009 and invited seniors in the community to join a discussion led  
by experts in the Internet safety field. KEEPING  
PACE
WITH  THE
CHALLENGES
For all our accomplishments in bringing amazing
new technologies to the marketplace, there arealways emerging issues that remind us we havemore to do and more to learn.Verizon Wireless has 
kept tons of e-waste out 
of landfills through the recycling component of the HopeLine® program. Millions of customers depend on us 
to keep our networks safe, secure 
and private.
It’s a big commitment. On an average 
day our networks connect one billion phone calls, 1.7 billion text messages and 400 million e-mails. We have a network presence in many countries around the world, supporting busi-nesses and governments around the world. We also maintain the biggest wireless network in the U.S., serving more than 90 million customers. 
To meet these challenges, Verizon 
has taken extraordinary measures to ensure the security and privacy of our networks—from teams of cyber-security employees monitoring our networks around the clock to completing a comprehensive update of our privacy policy (see page 37).
  
KEEPING  OuR  NETWORK  
AND  CuSTOMERS  SECuRE
Analysts at our 24 x 7 
Security Operations Center work with their teammates around the world to manage network safety  
and security. 
26Cyber-Security
Cyber-security means different things to different people. 
For consumers, it’s about protecting one’s identity and personal assets. For businesses, it’s about protecting confidential information and intellectual property. For the military and the government, it’s about national security.
Verizon is actively engaged on all those fronts.For the U.S. government, we maintain the networks 
that have a vital role in the country’s national security and emergency preparedness. We are a central player in confronting and dealing with cyber-threats, and we have provided advanced solutions that have strengthened the nation’s communications infrastructure.
For businesses, we deliver managed information-security 
services that include identity management, risk analysis and professional services. We’re committed to providing the essential support for protecting our enterprise customers’ end-to-end operations.
For consumers, Verizon’s commitment to keeping customers’ 
information private and secure is long–standing. We have technical, administrative and physical safeguards in place to help protect against the unauthorized accessing, use or disclosure of the customer information we maintain, including Social Security numbers. 
Our employees are specially trained on the importance of 
protecting privacy and what constitutes proper access and disclosure. Access to personally identifiable information is authorized only for those who have a business need for such access, and sensitive records are retained only as long as necessary to meet business or legal needs.  The FutureLooking ahead, Verizon’s forensics and network analysis teams are constantly on the lookout for new threats and challenges to keeping our networks secure. As new technologies become available, new threats emerge at  the same time. Our commitment to customers is to develop security solutions well before a new security  threat becomes a widespread problem. EVER y D ay ON  
a VERIz ON NETWORK
1 bIllION  phone calls connected
1.7 b IllION  text messages exchanged
50 MIllION  videos or pictures exchanged
400 MIllION  e-mails received
8.7 PET aby TES  of video streamed  
(equals 4 million full-length movies)
27aMERIC a’S MOST   
TRuSTED  COMP aNIES   
FOR  PRIV aCy - 2009
1  eBay
2  VERIzON
3  U.S. Postal Service
4  Intuit
5 IBM
6  Nationwide
7  USAA
8  WebMD
9  Procter & Gamble
10  American Express
Compiled by Ponemon Institute and TRUSTe, 2009  MANAGING  ELECTRONIC  WASTE
The amount of e-waste  – the informal 
name for a variety of discarded electronic 
products such as computers, televisions 
and cell phones  – that Verizon and 
our customers generate each year has 
increased significantly in the past decade. 
Managing this e-waste in a responsible 
way presents all of us with a considerable challenge. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that 70% of the toxic heavy metals found in landfills comes from e-waste. 
Some have attempted to address 
the concern by shipping this e-waste to places overseas, where lower environmental standards and unsafe working conditions make processing e-waste profitable.Two Verizon organizations – Investment Recovery and Environmental Manage -
ment – have joined forces to keep the more than 6 million pounds of e-waste that Verizon generates annually from polluting landfills and to keep it from  
creating a hazard. The goal is to make sure that our discarded materials are  
disposed of correctly and safely.
(See page 54 for more detail on 
Verizon’s recycling programs).
The centerpiece of our efforts is a 
review process. The companies we use to handle e-waste and other materials are audited by Investment Recovery and Environmental Management groups to track how the discarded materials are handled and recycled or disposed. 
28Our audits show 
that our vendors are properly managing the disposal of the electronic products  we discard. The reviews completed to date have let us know that our 
vendors are following the regulations governing these 
materials, that any required permits have been obtained; and that the companies are fulfilling their contractual obligations.
It’s a significant challenge for a nationwide operation like 
Verizon because different states have different regulations covering the disposition of e-waste.
To stay current, Verizon has joined the Investment Recovery 
Association, a professional organization devoted to proper management of surplus and idle assets such as e-waste. It is the only organization that provides certification for the investment recovery profession. 
Internally, we’ve instituted a formal process for dealing  
with e-waste. 
For example, when an employee receives a new computer or 
monitor to replace an older one, the information about the old equipment is entered into what’s known as the “V-trader” system – a system for disposing of old assets. 
The no-longer-used computer goes to one of the vendors 
we have selected to handle and properly recycle or dispose of e-waste and other materials. Those vendors include Fortune Metals, Software House International, Global Electric Electronic Processing, Veolia and AERC. Fortune Metals, in fact, has more than 450 disposal containers stationed at our facilities across the country. We use other specialized vendors to handle e-waste items such as CRT (cathode-ray tube) monitors, batteries and fluorescent tubes because of the hazardous materials they may contain. 
Our plans are to aggressively manage e-waste disposal 
through regular reviews of the vendors we employ to handle the discarded products, engaging more employees in the recycling process and, where feasible, finding constructive use of no-longer-used materials.
Verizon Hopeline®  
Verizon Wireless has kept many tons of e-waste and batteries out of landfills via the recycling component of its HopeLine program (see page 55 for more information). 
Through HopeLine, Verizon collects wireless phones, 
batteries and accessories from customers wireless service providers and refurbishes the phones or recycles them in  an environmentally sound way. 
The proceeds from the program benefit victims of domestic 
violence and nonprofit advocacy agencies, providing communication tools, wireless services and financial grants.
Recycling Copper Under the heading of one person’s trash is another person’s treasure, Verizon has become a major supplier of copper. We have pulled millions of pounds of this valuable metal from old cables and wires and sold it to copper refineries for re-smelting.
Reusing copper from old cables and wires reduces the 
environmental impact associated with mining for new copper and the constructive reuse of the metal keeps  it out of landfills.
29Verizon collected more than 2,500 pounds of e-waste 
during its first Employee Electronics Recycle Day, which 
was held in late 2009 at our Hidden Ridge facility in Irving, Texas.
Employees were invited to bring in their unwanted 
electronics for disposal. They brought everything from computer equipment to stereos, gaming consoles, telephones and small electrical appliances.Materials collected during the event, which coincided with America Recycles Day, were managed in accordance with environmental regulations. More than 97% of the materials will likely be reused or recycled.
Based on the great response, plans are under way to 
duplicate the event at more Verizon locations in 2010. VERIz ON HOlDS  FIRST  E-W aSTE  REC yClE  DayResearch over the past decade has 
revealed striking differences between 
the health status of majority and minority groups in the United States, regardless of economic and health insurance status. 
On average, racial and ethnic minorities 
are in poorer health, suffer worse health outcomes and have higher morbidity and mortality rates than Caucasians. Verizon has been engaged in drawing attention to this issue in the business community as well as developing solutions to close the gaps. 
For the past two years, Verizon’s 
Audrietta Izlar has chaired the Racial-Ethnic Health Disparities Advisory Board, an initiative of the Department of Health and Human Services Office  of Minority Health (OMH). 
30CLOSING  THE ETHNIC  
HEALTH  CARE  GAP
Verizon’s Audrietta 
Izlar (second from right) chaired a government advisory board charged with raising awareness about disparities in health care. The initiative is a national effort led by the OMH to 
mobilize public/private partnerships at various levels 
across the country. 
The board, which is made up of employers, researchers and 
experts on disparities, completed several projects during its two-year tenure under Izlar’s leadership:
 •  An employer survey and interviews on  
racial and ethnic health disparities;
 •  Two webinars for employers and health care providers; 
 •  Two briefs on the issue: “Eliminating Racial and Ethnic 
Health Disparities: A Business Case Update for Employers” , 
and “Addressing Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities: Employer Initiatives;” (see www.businessgrouphealth.or g); 
 •  Two employer guides for collecting data  
 and communications.
Verizon is also setting an example to help eliminate 
disparities in health care through a four-part strategy: 
 •  Partnering with our health vendors; 
 •  Empowering employees to be well;
 •  Sharing data and information with our peers;
 •  Providing community support through the Verizon 
Foundation (see investment statistics on page 38).
We used Verizon’s first joint Employee Resource Group Con-ference in 2009 to draw awareness to the disparity issue. 
For nearly 30 years, our company-supported, employee-
run Employee Resource Groups have been an important component of Verizon’s diversity and inclusion strategy.  VERIz ON IS WORKING  TO  
ElIMINa TE DISP aRITIES  IN HEal TH  
CaRE  by PaRTNERING  WITH  OuR   
HEal TH VENDORS  aND  EMPOWERING   
EMPl OyEES  TO “bE  WEll. ”
The Employee Resource Groups – 10 in all – have provided 
a strong sense of community and camaraderie within the company, while also promoting personal and professional growth for members. 
Employees who attended the 2009 conference could 
register for free on-site wellness screenings covering blood pressure, body mass index, glucose, cholesterol, cardiac 
c-reactive protein and thyroid. The screenings provided 
results for employees to share with their doctors.
Not surprisingly, the free screenings uncovered some 
health issues that needed attention. 
One Verizon senior executive learned through the 
screening that she was pre-diabetic and had slightly elevated cholesterol levels. She has since worked with her physician on a program of nutrition, exercise and medication and credits our wellness event for prompting 
her to focus on her health and wellness.    
This year, Verizon will expand its efforts to ensure our benefits and programs are aligned to battle the disparities in health care for racial and ethnic minorities. 
31Adrienne Lamar of the Jenesse 
Center in Los Angeles counseling 
a client. The Center provides shelter, counseling, education and compassion to victims of domestic violence and their families with support from the Verizon Foundation. DELIVERING
MEASuRABLE
RESuLTS
We’re working with our partners to tackle the most 
pressing issues confronting society, a challenge made more urgent by today’s economic climate. Overview  
Every day, each of Verizon’s employees 
makes decisions that shape our repu-tation and affect our future. We hold our people accountable for acting in accordance with our core values and making the right decisions, whether they’re interacting with a customer, spending company resources, prepar -
ing financial reports or safeguarding sensitive data.
Employees need to know the rules and 
have the tools and training to act with integrity. Customers and shareowners need to know that we are responsive to their concerns and conduct our business in a fair and transparent way. Our systems must evolve to address emerging issues in the dynamic online environment in which we operate. 
And although we have made 
significant progress, we recognize that we need to continue integrating corporate responsibility into our decision-making frameworks and engaging our stakeholders.Complying with Our Code  of Conduct 
    Verizon’s Code of Conduct maps 
out employees’  responsibilities for behaving ethically in their dealings with colleagues, customers and stakeholders (https://www22.verizon.com/about/careers/codeofconduct.htm l). All Verizon employees are 
required to be trained and certified on the Code to ensure they comply with its standards. 
 •  In 2009, we completed a compre -
hensive review of the Code, updating the guidelines on gifts and entertainment, Internet practices and rules on conflicts of interest that apply to employees’  activities outside of Verizon. The revisions also reflect our updated privacy policy (see page 37) and new guidelines to maintain integrity and fairness in the sales process. 
 •  Verizon’s updated Code of Conduct 
will be released in 2010. By the end 
of the year, all employees will be trained on the revised content. Promoting Human Rights  Wherever We Operate 
    Verizon operates the networks 
on which much of the world’s economy depends, and delivers communications, data and entertainment services to millions of customers. With our global reach and extensive supply chain, it is imperative that we conduct business responsibly and with the highest ethical standards and maintain our reputation for trust and responsibility wherever we operate. 
 •  These commitments are  
expressed in our Human Rights 
Statement, issued in 2009 (see below and at http://responsibility.verizon.com/home/approach/human-rights/). LEADING B y EXAMPLE
34Verizon is committed to promoting the human rights 
values embedded in our Commitment & Values and 
Code of Conduct. We strive to create an environment of respect, integrity and fairness for our employees and customers wherever we do business, and we expect that our business partners will operate the same way.
We respect the broad principles in the UN Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights (http://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/index.shtml), many of which can be applied to how global businesses can build good relationships around the world and work successfully among different customs and cultures. 
Our commitment to promote human rights values is 
consistent with our dedication to respect employees, value customers, strengthen communities, protect the environment and engage with stakeholders to make the right decisions for the future of our business. VERIz ON HuM aN RIGHTS  STaTEMENTPRIORIT y: ETHICS & GOVERN aNCESetting Goals and Ensuring a ccountability
    Verizon relies on a number of groups to effectively 
manage corporate responsibility activities across the company. Our Corporate Responsibility Executive Council was established in 2007 to align activities with the core competencies of our business.
 •  The Corporate Responsibility Executive Council reports 
directly to the chairman and chief executive officer 
and is co-chaired by Virginia Ruesterholz, president of Verizon Services Operations and Thomas J. Tauke, executive vice president of Public Affairs, Policy & Communications. The council includes senior leaders from all operating units and several corporate officers. 
 •  The council establishes benchmarks and goals, assigns 
and enforces accountability and tracks results for 
corporate responsibility initiatives (see chart above).
Ethics & Compliance
    We recognize that making integrity and ethical behavior 
the foundation of how we operate requires a broader approach than publishing commitments and a list of do’s and don’ts. Verizon provides a robust line-up of resources to help employees raise questions or concerns and get information about ethical matters, policies, procedures and applicable laws. The resources include:
 •  An Ethics and EEO GuideLine managed by Verizon’s Office 
of Ethics & Business Conduct that is available 24-hours-a-day (800-856-1885 and www.verizonguideline.com ). 
Individuals are able to contact the service anonymously  
if they wish. Issues are handled quickly and discreetly. 
 •  A Security Control Center operated by Verizon’s 
Security organization which employees can reach 
24-hours-a-day (800-997-3287) to report or inquire about issues ranging from international cyber-security and legal compliance to replacing a lost company ID. 
 •  A reporting/inquiry channel for people to 
register accounting complaints or questions (AccountingComplaints@verizon.com) managed  
by Verizon’s Internal Audit group.
 •  Environmental and Safety Hotlines for reporting 
emergencies, arranging for waste disposal or getting on-site help from the company’s Environmental and Safety Specialists.
 •  An internal Web site provides employees with one-stop 
access to all these contacts and resources, including useful 
background information on all compliance subjects.
Connecting with the People  
Important to Our business
    It is essential to our corporate responsibility approach 
for us to have open, continuous dialogue with the wide range of people who are important to our business. We take their opinions and feedback seriously, and we use these opportunities to view ourselves and our decisions from the outside in. bOaRD OF DIRECTORS
CHaIRM aN & CEO
CORPOR aTE RESPONSIbIlIT y  
ExECuTIVE COuNCIl
CR COMMMITTEES
aCCESSIblE PRODuCTS  
& SERVICESONlINE  
SaFET yREPuT aTION RISK  
aND aSSESSMENT
ENVIRONMENT al  
SuST aINabIlIT yWIRElESS  
SaFET y
35Our Communities
     Our Strategic Alliances Group works 
with national third-party groups 
that represent consumers, seniors, educators, civil rights organizations, minorities and rural constituencies. We regularly survey these opinion leaders to understand their views.
     Our long-standing Verizon Consumer 
Advisory Board, which is made up of 
leading advocates from across the country, provides us an unfiltered advi-sory role on business and social issues.     Our Issues Management & 
Technology Policy team maintains relationships with academics,  
think tanks, trade associations  and public advocacy groups.
    We work extensively to generate 
ongoing discussion with our stakeholders through e-newsletters and social media. People can connect with us by blogging, tweeting or joining forums that  cover interests from policy, service and investor issues to career interests. They can all be found at  http://www.verizon.com/socialmedia/ . 
36PRIORIT y: ETHICS & GOVERN aNCE
Verizon Chairman and 
CEO Ivan Seidenberg 
hosts meetings every quarter with employees to discuss company performance. The meetings are webcast to locations around  the world. Our Employees
     When it comes to employee involvement and feedback, 
there are multiple channels—in addition to those in the 
ethics, compliance and security groups—that enable direct communication up and down the organization. These include:
 •  Regular “town hall” meetings and operations reviews 
led by executives and managers.
 •  Quarterly meetings held for all employees by the 
chairman and chief executive officer to discuss operational results and unit performance. The sessions are webcast across the country and to overseas locations. Senior leaders do a companion webcast each quarter that focuses on department performance.
 •  Employee opinion surveys, which are conducted every two 
years, and “employee pulse” polls held several times a year.
 •  Formal feedback programs (e.g., Send Your Question to 
Ivan, Report a Service Issue) that facilitate discussion 
and sharing of best practices.Our Suppliers
     Verizon prides itself on the relationships we maintain  
with business providers, and strives to promote a 
mutually beneficial business relationship based on  
the highest business standards of ethical conduct. 
 
     Verizon’s Supplier Code of Conduct ( http://www.verizon.com/
ethics/ ) outlines the standards of conduct for Verizon business 
providers. These standards were established to ensure that 
our business providers are aware of Verizon’s expectations of them to conduct business with integrity and respect.
37Verizon updated our privacy policy in June 2009  
(http://www.verizon.com/privac y), providing an easy-
to-read, one-stop place for information about how 
Verizon collects, uses and protects customer and  
Web site visitor information.  
The policy is more customer-friendly, uses plain 
language and gives snapshot views of our practices 
along with links to particular areas of interest. 
We’ve also made it easier for customers to give us their preferences on using personal information for 
marketing purposes. And we’ve provided easy access 
to tools that help people protect the privacy and keep 
their families safe online (e.g., creating safe passwords, 
recognizing phishing e-mails).  
Our efforts led to Verizon being ranked No. 2 nationally 
in 2009 as one of the most trusted companies for privacy. Verizon was the only telecommunications company or cable provider to make the list.VERIz ON REVISES  PRIV aCy POlIC y  KEEPING OuR COMMITMENTS
Overview
Verizon’s impact in the community is felt in many ways: as a major employer, a taxpayer, an investor that is stimulating growth and innovation via its broadband deployment, and as a corporate citizen committed to addressing social issues, encouraging volunteerism and improving the quality of life. 
This social dimension is deeply 
embedded in our history and our mission as a network company. In a period during which the ground has shifted dramatically under corporations, stakeholders and consumers alike from a series of economic and social crises, Verizon’s commitment to the community remains rock-solid.
Our community engagement  
through the Verizon Foundation (www.verizonfoundation.org)remains broad and deep, and we remain committed to applying our resources and core competencies to build business as well as social value. Not only does this strengthen our society, it builds new markets and positions Verizon for growth as  the economy recovers.Preparing Students for  
Success in the 21st Century
    Our focus is preparing students for 
success in the 21st century workplace and improving literacy skills of children and adults. Our signature initiative is Verizon Thinkfinity.org, a Web site of free teaching and learning resources for teachers in K-12 classrooms and afterschool programs, as well as parents and students.
    Since its launch in March 2007, 
Thinkfinity.org has attracted a national audience of more than 6 million visitors to its home site and a combined audience of 76 million visitors to its partners’ Web sites. 
    Since 2007, the Verizon Foundation has 
also helped train nearly 69,000 educa-
tors in using Thinkfinity.org resources, established partnerships with 34 State Departments of Education as distribu-tion channels, and added more than 6,000 new resources to the Verizon Thinkfinity.org line-up. 
    The Foundation expanded its line-up 
of Thinkfinity.org partners in 2009 to include the National Center for Family Literacy, ProLiteracy and the 
Smithsonian National Museum of 
EDuC aTION  aND  lITER aCy  $35.5
VOluNTEERISM   
(INCluDING  MaTCHING  GIFTS)  14.7
CIVIC  & COMM uNIT y SuPPORT  8.1
DOMESTIC  VIOlENCE  PREVENTION  4.9
HEal TH CaRE  aND  aCCESSIbIlITy  3.4
INTERNET  SaFET y 1.3
TOTal PHIlaNTHROPIC  INVESTMENT  2009  $67.9
VERIzON FOuNDaTION  2009  
PHIlaNTHROPIC  INVESTMENTS   
($ IN MILLIONS )
38
PRIORIT y: PaRTNERING WITH COMM uNITIES
Students and teachers at the 
Archbishop Borders School in 
Baltimore, MD are enthusiastic users of Verizon’s Thinkfinity.org, a Web site of free education resources. KEy STaTISTICS 2007 2008 2009
VISITS * 1,982,387  2,949,270  3,371,417
VISIT ORS *  1,675,067 2,358,583  2,708,993
EDuC aTORS  TRaINED  8,456** 29,095^ 32,370
SCHOOlS * 1,080 2,822  4,591
TITlE 1 S CHOO lS^^ 360 1,092  1,795
THINKFINIT y .ORG  — THE  bEST   
EDuC aTION  RESOuRCE  ON THE  NET
American History. Partnerships were also established with 
the National Council of La Raza and the National Urban League for afterschool programming in Boston, Chicago and Washington, D.C.
    Thinkfinity.org earned recognition as the top free 
educational Web site for each of the last three years by Edutopia Magazine. It was also awarded the Editor’s 
Choice Award for best free Web site by Library Media Connection. The Verizon Foundation has presented Verizon Thinkfinity to the U.S. Department of Education as a best-in-class resource that aligns with the national focus on using technology to advance teacher training and student achievement.
    Verizon continues to be one of the largest funders of 
education and literacy initiatives in the U.S., and we are establishing a growing presence globally. Our grants support a spectrum of teaching and learning outcomes that include early childhood literacy, STEM (Science, Technology, Math and Engineering) and higher education.
Encouraging People to Volunteer  
for Something They l ove
    In communities across America, Verizon employees and 
retirees are volunteering their time and providing financial support to thousands of nonprofits that affect hundreds of important social and community issues. 
    In 2009, our volunteers contributed over 700,000 volun-
teer hours and donated more than $12.6 million, which was matched by the Verizon Foundation for a combined 
total of $26.1 million invested in community causes.KEy 2009 G RaNTS
National l aw Enforcement Officer’s Memorial Fund
$1.5 million grant to National Law Enforcement Officer’s Memorial Fund to develop educational  and interactive technology programs for the National Law Enforcement Museum, and to  support a program aimed at preventing  domestic violence.
Naa CP
$500,000 grant to fund the development of an online interactive timeline highlighting the significant milestones of the organization’s 100-year history, which supports the NAACP’s local educational outreach through its 250,000 members and 1,700 local branches. 
university of Massachusetts/ amherst 
$200,000 grant to digitize the papers of W.E.B. DuBois, the historian, scholar, author and civil rights leader.
St. Philips academy/Newark, NJ 
$150,000 grant to this school in Newark, NJ, to integrate technology in the classroom, changing the way teachers teach and students learn, using Verizon Thinkfinity.org as the principal resource.*  2007 and 2008 figures were adjusted to reflect a change in reporting methodology. **Program started mid-year; 
partial year result ^  Updated figure since last report ^^Staffed with Thinkfinity.org-trained educators
    
   
  
39Finding a Cure for a merica’s Silent 
Epidemic: Domestic Violence
     The widespread incidence of domes-
tic violence and its toll on individuals, families, communities and businesses makes it a critical concern to Verizon. 
     To address domestic violence preven-
tion, we promote education and volun-teer initiatives across the company as well as support nonprofit agencies that deal with domestic violence issues. We also sponsor an annual national summit (http://foundation.verizon.com/about/
press/DVP_Summit.shtml ) and, through 
the Verizon HopeLine program, provide mobile devices and minutes to help victims get back on the road to inde -
pendence and recovery (see HopeLine statistics, page 55).
     At the Verizon Foundation’s 4th Annual 
Domestic Violence Prevention Sum-mit, more than 120 leaders discussed how to better engage communities in prevention and ways to bring men into the conversation, breaking the myth that it is solely a woman’s issue.    Among the nearly $5 million in grants 
awarded by the Verizon Foundation to support domestic violence prevention were these key investments: 
 
 •  Funding  to Penn State Public 
Broadcasting for a documentary 
telling the story of Amy Homan McGee, a Verizon Wireless employee who was killed by her husband in 2001. The segment will be part of a larger documentary scheduled to air this year on public television.
 •  A $250,000 grant  to the Jenesse 
Center in Los Angeles for a job-skills training program to encourage economic self-sufficiency for domestic violence victims.
 •  A $50,000 grant to the Pennsyl -
vania Coalition against Domestic 
Violence to build its capacity to educate people throughout the state about domestic violence.
    Employees donated more than 
$450,000 in goods during the 2009 “Shower for the Shelter” campaign to collect needed clothing, personal items and household supplies to support shelters that serve survivors of domestic violence. Verizon launches Free legal Services 
    Verizon attorneys and legal staff 
launched a program in 2009 to provide free legal services to individuals in need and nonprofit organizations. 
    The program is designed to complement Verizon’s philanthropic efforts and is focused on three areas: education, support for victims of domestic violence and support for returning veterans. Members of  
the company’s legal department  
are encouraged to volunteer a  
minimum of 25 hours a year . 
 In just a few months, members of our legal department have volunteered approximately 2,000 hours teaching classes on civil law topics, representing victims of domestic violence in preceed-ings, representing veterans to start new businesses and representing start-up schools serving poor communities. 
We anticipate our attorneys and legal 
staff will volunteer more than 5,000 hours for this program in 2010.
40485,000
2007
608,000
2008703,000
2009VERIz ON EMPl OyEE  
VOluNTEER  HOuRS
PRIORIT y: PaRTNERING WITH COMMuNITIESOur broadband Prescription for Improving Health Care
    The Verizon Foundation invests in projects that use 
technology to help health care providers improve their effectiveness and reach. Key investments for 2009 include:
 •  Hemet Hospice Volunteers, Inc – Verizon’s support 
funds a Point of Care system that allows hospice 
workers for this California-based group to create electronic medical records, request medication  and equipment, and update other team members— all from the patient’s bed side.
 •  College of New Rochelle Telenursing Program – 
Students training here work in a simulated home 
health care environment, using data, video and voice communications to provide care and help increase 
patient independence. The New york nursing school is 
one of the first in the country to incorporate Internet technology into a formal home health care curriculum. 
 •  Community Hospital of Long Beach Foundation 
– Clinicians at this California-based facility are able 
to spend more quality time with patients by having instant communications to all pertinent information and other clinicians through wireless communications systems, dubbed Workstations on Wheels. 
building Digital literacy: u sing the Internet Safely
    Verizon is helping formulate the norms, rules and codes 
of conduct for the Internet world. We invest in programs that deliver information and instruction directly to students, teachers, families and seniors, so they can use the Internet and digital media safely and securely. Among the key grants for 2009 in this area were:
 •  Carnegie Mellon’s Information Networking Institute 
and CyLab received a $20,000 grant from the Verizon Foundation to develop a cyber-awareness outreach program for 1st to 4th graders.
 •  Officials at Anna Maria College and the Massachusetts 
Internet Crimes against Children Task Force are using a new mobile training lab to give police officers, college criminal justice students and parents hands-on training about Internet safety.
 •  WebWiseKids has developed free online games that 
teach 11- to 14-year-olds guidelines for safe Internet 
and cell phone use.
41Touching Communities a round the Globe
     A Verizon Foundation grant supports the Associacão 
Alumni, an English language school that offers an online English teaching certificate to public school teachers in underserved areas of Sao Paulo, Brazil. Verizon employees volunteer as tutors for the teachers, using Verizon Thinkfinity.org resources to help improve English  and develop computer skills.
     The Beyond Social Services (BSS) organization received a  
Verizon Foundation grant to assist children in underserved 
communities of Singapore, improving their literacy skills through reading programs and experiential learning in English, math, science, and art. Verizon volunteers work directly with the children to help them achieve their educational goals.
     A Verizon Foundation grant to the Australian Literacy 
and Numeracy Foundation funds a literacy support program for residents of remote rural communities. The objective is to improve the literacy of indigenous children by increasing activities and resources in schools and at home. Through a Wiki and online communications, Verizon volunteers serve as virtual tutors, using Verizon Thinkfinity.org resources.
Groundbreaking ceremonies for the Child and Youth 
Development Center, the first school in the Paranque City 
neighborhood in Manila, Philippines. A grant from the Verizon Foundation supports construction and pre-school education, while Verizon Business employees will tutor students in reading, art, music and computer classes. Capital
InvestmentIncome Tax  
and Other  Taxes PaidSalaries  & WagesPurchases from Diverse SuppliersDividends to  ShareholdersPension and  Other Retirement  
Payments$17. 5
$4.8$5.3
$3.5$4.1INVESTING  IN OuR  COMMuNITIES   
($ IN BILLIONS)
 2007
  2008
  2009  
42Sally Munroe, who works in the 
Verizon Services Operations group 
in Boston, has been leading the fight against domestic violence  for almost a decade. 
Sally was recognized for her efforts 
in 2009 by the Massachusetts Com-mission on the Status of Women. The Commission named her one of 100 Unsung Heroines of Massachusetts at a state house ceremony honoring women who are quietly making a difference in the community.
Sally not only spends her personal 
time volunteering in the commu-nity, but has been the co-chair of the Verizon/IBEW Local 2222/CWA Domestic Violence Awareness Com-mittee for more than eight years. 
In these roles, she has spearheaded 
many projects that help raise awareness of the issue of domestic violence in both the workplace and the Greater Boston area.
Sally makes it her personal goal 
to promote awareness about the consequences of domestic violence. She serves as a leader in her work -
place, amongst her peer group and in her community. 
VERIz ON VOluNTEER  Sally MuNROE$17. 2 $17. 0
$5.8
$4.3 $5.0
$3.8
$3.1$16.1
$15.2
$14.1
$4.3$4.4$5.9PRIORIT y: PaRTNERING WITH COMMuNITIESResponding to People in Need
The devastating earthquake in Haiti in January 2010 
resulted in a massive outpouring of aid aimed at relieving the suffering of its people, and Verizon was a part of that effort from the beginning. 
The Verizon Foundation helped organizations deliver aid 
to Haiti in two ways: by providing $100,000 in grants to the World Vision and Food for the Poor organizations, and activating its Disaster Relief Incentive Program. This program matched donations of $25 or more by Verizon employees to the two nonprofit organizations, up to $1,000 per employee. 
In just two weeks, the program yielded $1 million in 
grants, employee donations and matching funds from  
the Verizon Foundation. 
Of the $1 million, more than $900,000 was raised through 
the Verizon disaster relief program. On the service side, Verizon waived all long-distance usage charges for calls from our residential landline and wireless phones to Haiti from January 12-31. The company also waived all Verizon pre-paid phone card charges for all long-distance calls placed from the U.S. to Haiti through February 14.In an unprecedented wave of giving via text messaging that is still ongoing, more than 760,000 Verizon Wireless customers have donated approximately $7.82 million to the Red Cross by texting HAITI to 90999.
By January 21, customers of all U.S. wireless companies 
had pledged more than $25 million to charities via mobile giving campaigns. 
Verizon Wireless has also waived texting fees for those 
making text donations, ensuring that 100% of all donations go directly to the Red Cross or other designated charity.
To ensure that funds donated by Verizon Wireless customers 
were being put to use as soon as possible, the company transmitted all $7.82 million at once to the American Red Cross instead of waiting for the pledges to be sent in by customers with their regular monthly bill payment.
In the aftermath of the February 2010 earthquake in Chile, 
we waived all calling fees for customers trying to reach loved ones there. We also worked with international relief organiza-tions to provide mobile giving options for customers.  
  
   
43
Within 10 days of the Haiti earthquake, cell phone customers would donate $25 million via text messaging.
© Talia Frenkel/American Red CrossVERIz ON TOTal 
TRaINING  HOuRS
(PER EMPLO yEE)
  INVESTING IN OuR WORKFORCE
200852.149.3
2007Overview
To be successful, Verizon depends on the skills, values and commitment of our people. We provide competitive wages along with progressive health and benefit packages. We invest heavily in training and development and hold ourselves to very high standards of performance.
These programs and packages 
are among the best in corporate America—but they don’t tell the full story of Verizon’s commitment to be  an employer of choice. 
That commitment includes instilling 
a culture that offers challenging work, the opportunity to build a great career, and an environment that respects individuality and encourages different perspectives. building a Great Career 
Through Training
    Verizon’s training investment for 2009 
totaled $330 million, and employees completed 11.5 million hours in training—more than 51 hours per employee. Over the past three years, employees have completed nearly 35 million hours of training. 
Encouraging People to ‘b e Well’  
and ‘Take Charge’
    Verizon provided health care benefits 
worth $3.8 billion in 2009, covering 830,000 employees, retirees and their dependents. Our approach centers on empowering people to “be well” by encouraging preventive and early detection screenings, balancing healthy eating and exercise and facilitating a “take charge” culture  
in managing chronic conditions.
51.8
2009
44
PRIORIT y: EMPOWERING  EMPlOyEES
Empowering employees 
includes encouraging 
them to “be well” through preventive care, healthy eating and plenty of exercise.    The number of employees receiving 
on-site flu shots increased by 36% in 2009 while the availability of on-site mammography screenings for employees was expanded to two additional Verizon locations.
    Verizon waived co-payments for 
employees who filled new generic prescriptions at the lower-cost mail order pharmacy, Medco. In the first of 
two phases on the offer, 36,000 people 
took advantage of the co-pay waiver 
program.  The average annual patient 
savings  in the first phase was  $101. 
    Verizon expanded access to the 
QuitNet smoking cessation program to more than 120,000 employees. 
For those who have registered for the 
program, almost 550 lifetime years and 
$5.6 million of employees’  money  will 
have been saved by quitting tobacco.    To help promote a culture of activity, 
Verizon manages 31 on-site Health & Wellness Centers nationwide that are available to employees for $15 per month. Throughout Verizon, employees are eligible for discounted membership at over 2,000 health clubs.
Measuring Employee Engagement
    In 2009 we conducted four “Pulse” 
surveys to measure and understand employee engagement. On average, employees responded at more than 90% favorability on key issues including:
 
 •  Understanding how individual 
performance relates to business imperatives and compensation (90%); 
 •  Understanding that their perfor -
mance is fundamental to meeting 
our “customer first” commitment (97%).
VERIz ON HEal TH  
CaRE  ExPENSES PARTICIPANTS
  ExPENDITURES  IN BILLIONS  
2009
$3.8830,000
 PaRTICIP aNTS  ExPENDITuRES   
  ($ IN MILLIONS )
2007  29,000  $112.5
2008  29,100  $117.9
2009  33,068  $120.0VERIz ON TuITION   
aSSIST aNCE  PROGR aMS2007
845,000
$3.6
2008
835,000
$3.6
45PRIORIT y: EMPOWERING  EMPl OyEES
46Verizon supports employees who are called to active 
military duty with one of the best military-leave 
programs anywhere. 
Verizon pays the difference between an employee’s 
military pay and Verizon pay for up to 36 months. We also continue medical, dental, vision and group life insurance for those employees and their dependents. 
Generous benefits like these are a great help for active 
service people, but there’s nothing like being part of  a close-knit team. Just ask David Assenheimer,  a consumer sales associate for Verizon in Marion,  Ohio, and a member of the National Guard 137th Assault Helicopter Battalion.
Assenheimer was deployed to Iraq in early 2009. His  
co-workers in Marion stayed in close contact with him 
the whole time via phone calls, text messages, and posts on social networking sites. And once a month, they sent him a care package of assorted goodies.
Assenheimer returned from Iraq in February 2010  
and is back with his team. STayING  CONNECTEDVerizon Consumer Sales Associate David Assenheimer. Keeping Work and Personal life in b alance
    Verizon’s employee assistance program provides resources for 
dealing with personal problems and challenges related to par -
enting and child care, adult care, health and wellness, moving and relocation, and many other issues. On average, employees contact employee assistance outlets by telephone more than 1,100 times a month and log on to the Web site, www.verizon.com/lif e, approximately 35,500 times per month.
    All employees are eligible to receive a 10% discount on 
child care at more than 2,000 centers nationwide. The discounted services are available for full-day, part-day, summer, and before- and after-school care. 
    To address the special needs of new parents, Verizon provides 
a generous Gradual Return to Work Program for employees returning from childbirth or child adoption leaves. Employees return to work on a reduced work schedule and maintain full and complete coverage for all Verizon benefits. 
     Verizon provides a variety of flexible work policies, includ-
ing telecommuting and flextime, as the nature of the work  
and the needs of our business will allow. 
    Verizon reimburses employees for adoption expenses such 
as legal fees and travel, up to $10,000 for each child adopted.
 
    To help make paying for college a little easier, the Verizon 
Foundation’s Scholarship Program provides recipients $5,000 annually toward college expenses. Each scholarship is renewable for three years and has a total value of $20,000. Recipients are selected based on financial need, academic achievement and extracurricular activities. 
Focusing on Improvements in SafetyThe health and safety of our employees is part of the Verizon culture. Verizon continues to provide employees with resources needed to make their work environment safer. Verizon formed cross-functional safety, environmental and field operations working teams that meet regularly  to ensure safe work practices. 
We routinely conduct in-depth analysis of major incidents 
to determine root causes, communicate lessons learned and identify recommended actions. We reinforce company-wide awareness of our safety standards through training, commu-nications, and internal and external audits. We were saddened to have two work-related fatalities in 2009. Any loss of life is unacceptable, and we continue to press for nothing less than consistent improvement in all key safety measures.
In 2009 Verizon’s occupational injury/illness rate of 2.20 
was better than the telecommunication industry standard of 2.60. Verizon’s 2009 lost work day case rate of 1.18 was slightly higher than the industry standard of 1.10. The industry standard rates are reported by the Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics. Verizon’s rates are better than or near the telecommunication industry standards. 
Occupational Injuries  
& Illnesses Rate  
(per 100 employees)Lost Workday Rate  
(per 100 employees)Motor Vehicle  
Incident Rate  
(per 100 vehicles)Employee  Fatalities
 OSHA  Citations1.83
1.692.20
1.060.971.183.963.723.53
13
214
910
 2007
  2008
  2009  VERIz ON SaFET y
47  INVESTING IN THE FuTuRE
Broadband has proven to be an 
extraordinarily transformative tech-nology. It has ignited an explosion of innovative products and services that have already become an integral part of Americans’ lives—at work, at home and on the go. 
More and more we see how the 
power of broadband technology can be tapped to help address some of our nation’s most pressing social challenges and meet the unique needs of customers.
We are committed to applying 
ourselves to the challenges that take best advantage of our resources; for instance, boosting accessibility for seniors and the disabled, improving the health care system via technology, giving people the tools to get the most enjoyment out of the Internet and taking the lead to discourage the use of mobile devices when driving. broadband: a n Extraordinary  
Force for Progress
    Verizon expanded its all-fiber 
broadband network, FiOS, to three million homes in 2009, pushing the total to 15 million nationwide. 
    FiOS TV is available in 14 states, 
including major metropolitan areas 
such as New york City, Washington D.C., 
Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Newark. 
    Verizon Wireless’ third generation 
(3G) mobile wireless broadband service is available to approximately 290 million Americans. Our more powerful and speedy fourth-generation (4G) service, LTE, is coming in 2010. Plans are to launch in 25-30 markets, reaching approximately 100 million Americans, by the end of the year.
CaPIT al INVESTMENT   
($ IN BILLIONS)
2007
48
2008 2009$17. 5$17. 2$17. 0
PRIORIT y: SERVICE  & INNOV aTION
One of the products on 
our drawing board to 
improve accessibility for the visually impaired is a screen reader that converts displayed text into speech on BlackBerry devices. In 2009, 272 Verizon people were 
named as inventors on patents granted 
to the company. The recognition comes 
with a cash award from the company. 
One such patent was awarded in July 
to Kim Galdiano and Brian Somes in 
Verizon’s Network Services Group for 
developing a new network routing 
process for international calls. 
According to Kim, the idea started 
with trying to find a simple solution 
to a complicated process of providing 
international carrier-to-carrier routing for large business customers. The issue: 
voice signals from one carrier would 
be transmitted to any carrier’s network 
that had an open path to reach the 
destination. Customers wanted more 
control to ensure quality.
Kim and Brian developed a solution 
that allowed Verizon to offer an inter -
national network carrier the ability 
to send that same voice signal using 
another carrier of its choice via Verizon’s  
international transit network. The 
result: improved transmission quality 
and satisfied customers. 
     Verizon’s global IP network serves more than 2,700 
cities in 159 countries. Verizon continued to expand its 
ultra-long-haul network, adding 5,200 additional miles 
in 2009. In December Verizon became the first carrier to 
deploy a commercial 100G (gigabits per second) system 
for live traffic. 
    The Verizon Wireless Open Network Initiative  
(https://www.verizon.com/opendev /) was launched in 
2008 to help unleash the creativity and innovation of third 
parties to develop new applications and devices that will 
run on Verizon’s wireless broadband network. To date, 
nearly 60 devices have been certified.
adapting Technology to the Needs of People
     Verizon continues to introduce innovative products that 
adapt broadband and mobile technologies to the needs 
of people with disabilities and physical challenges. 
    In 2009, Verizon launched TALKSTM, a technology 
that converts displayed text into speech for wireless 
customers who are blind or visually impaired.     The HTC Ozone phone is one of the two TALKS-enabled 
phones launched in late 2009. It also supports reading  
the Internet, the first mobile screen reader to do so. 
    The company also expanded videophone services via our 
Verizon Centers for Customers with Disabilities to reach 
hearing-impaired customers in New Jersey, Pennsylvania 
and Delaware. Videophone call volumes more than 
doubled over 2008.
   FRIENDING  VERIzON
 
It turns out that Verizon is one of the coolest  
brands online. 
Our Facebook page ( http://www.facebook.com/verizo n) 
now has approximately 820,000 fans. During the 2009 
holiday shopping season, we attracted more new fans 
than any other brand.
49
bRIGHT  IDEaS  FlOuRISH  aT VERIz ONPRIORIT y: SERVICE  & INNOV aTION
Tapping the Power of broadband  
to Improve Health Care
    Broadband has the power to 
improve our health care system in multiple ways. By expediting the implementation of electronic medical records and other health information technologies—called Health IT for short—broadband can both dramatically lower costs and improve health outcomes. 
    Providing $3.8 billion in health 
care benefits that cover 830,000 employees, retirees and dependents gives Verizon a significant stake in helping create a high-quality health care system that is both affordable and accessible. Verizon’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ivan Seidenberg has been personally involved in this effort, leading the Business Roundtable in its role as the nation’s foremost business advocate for comprehensive health care reform (http://www.businessroundtable.org/initiatives/health).
    Verizon is already offering the 
benefits of Health IT to our own employees and their families through our HealthZone initiative—a personal health record system that gives users tools and resources to manage their health and health care (see “What We Did” , page 15).
    To help health care providers tap the 
power of IT, Verizon has teamed with Cisco to deliver Verizon Telehealth Collaboration Services (http://www.verizonbusiness.com/solutions/healthcare/telehealth/). The system provides integrated audio, visual and video communications so health care professionals can provide care virtually anywhere, any time. 
50A Remote Presence Robot 
allows doctors at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, MD to provide quick consultations to emergency room patients from remote locations. Creating the Right Digital Experience
    Verizon’s approach has been to offer resources that  
allow families to create the digital experience they  want to feel safe and secure—and this applies whether they’re interacting online, watching TV, or connecting  on a mobile phone.
    Our newly constructed Parental Controls Center  
(http://parentalcontrolcenter.com/) offers access to the complete line-up of services Verizon offers to help customers manage and create the digital experience  that is right for them. 
    Verizon’s tools include free content filters for wireless devices 
and free parental controls features available on Verizon FiOS Internet, High Speed Internet and FiOS TV services.
    To help the increasing numbers of seniors who are 
discovering the riches of going online, we developed Internet safety workshops to educate these consumers about online risks such as credit card and computer  fraud, banking transactions and identity theft.
    Over the past two years, funding from the Verizon 
Foundation has supported groundbreaking research at the Crimes Against Children Research Center on youth Internet safety. The papers, presentations and research supported by the funding are available online at  http://www.unh.educ/ccrs/internet-crimes/safety_ed.html .Ensuring People u se Wireless Technology Safely
    For many, a wireless phone represents peace of mind 
when it comes to child safety. With Verizon Wireless’ Family Locator service, for instance, you can securely locate family members from your wireless device or the Web. But before many of our locator-type services are released to the public, they are “test-driven” and screened for safety by the experts at the National Network to End Domestic Violence. 
    Verizon is also taking the lead to combat distracted 
driving. Verizon Wireless has led the wireless sector in supporting laws to eliminate driver distractions, publicly supporting state and federal legislation banning hand-held texting and e-mailing while driving. In 2009, Verizon Wireless launched a campaign, “Don’t Text and Drive, ” (http://aboutus.vzw.com/wirelessissues/driving.html) encouraging drivers to keep their hands on the wheel.
    The company has supported legislation requiring people to 
use hands-free devices when calling from vehicles since 2000, the first in our industry to do so. We have long advised our customers: “For your well-being and the well-being of those around you, you should consider turning your phone off and allowing calls to go to voice mail while you are driving. ” 
     Verizon employees conducting business while driving 
are required to use hands-free wireless technologies. Company policy now prohibits reviewing or sending e-mails, text, video or picture messages with wireless devices when conducting Verizon business while driving.
51
Verizon Wireless launched a “Don’t Text and Drive” campaign in 2009, encouraging drivers to keep their hands on the wheel.   ACHIEVING SuSTAINABILIT y 
Overview
Verizon’s efforts to protect the environ-ment entered a new phase in 2009. 
We continued making progress in 
reducing our CO
2 emissions, increasing 
recycling and deploying new energy-saving technologies in our operations. We also worked extensively to promote the use of broadband as a way to signif-icantly increase energy efficiency and make the transition to a less carbon-intensive economy. Consumers who use broadband-based applications to bank, shop, work from home or down-load digital media are not only saving time but energy, too.
To ensure these efforts are producing 
the results we seek, we established a more disciplined process and struc -
ture inside the company in 2009 to manage our sustainability initiatives. This includes appointing Verizon’s first Chief Sustainability Officer and forming an accompanying team.
The sustainability team’s objectives 
are to develop a comprehensive plan to increase Verizon’s energy efficiency and reduce our environmental impact, engage our stakeholders and to develop a methodology to measure and report our sustainability performance. 
To stay current on Verizon’s efforts to 
reduce our environmental impact, please visit http://newscenter.verizon.com/kit/green-press-kit/.  
To learn how our services are promoting energy-efficient behavior, please visit http://www.verizonbusi-ness.com/solutions/green/
.  
To see how information communica-tions technologies can further reduce emissions, please visit http://www.smart2020.org/. 
Reducing Our Environmental Impact 
  In 2008 Verizon established energy 
efficiency standards that require new network equipment to be at least 20% more energy efficient than the equip -
ment being replaced. We are the only telecommunications company to have established such standards.
 •  In 2009, this practice—combined with other network projects—resulted in a savings of almost 91 million kilowatt hours and more than 144 million pounds of CO
2 avoidance. •  Beginning in 2010, we’re requiring hardware suppliers to use thermal modeling when designing circuit boards and to show how their equipment generates less heat  
than the equipment it replaces. 
  By constantly monitoring building 
temperatures and installing energy-efficient lighting, Verizon’s Real Estate group reduced energy consumption by 84 million kilowatt hours, equal to almost 133 million pounds of CO
2 avoidance. 
  Forty-nine Verizon Wireless stores 
have been awarded the EPA’s Energy Star, designating superior energy effi-ciency and environmental protection. Learn more at http://news.vzw.com/news/2009/04/pr2009-04-02a.html.  
  Verizon Wireless has embarked on an 
aggressive green building program. Two stores were constructed and rated with the U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Gold certification. The stores are in the East -
ridge Mall in Casper, W y and Gateway 
Pavilion in Avondale, AZ. 
52REDuCING  GREENHO uSE-GaS EMISSIONS , OR CO 2,
by 1 MIllION  POuNDS  IS EquIValENT  TO:
TaKING  86 PaSSENGER  CaRS OFF  THE  ROaD FOR  a y EaR
OR
SaVING  ENO uGH ElECTRICIT y TO RuN 59 HOMES  aNNually
OR
CONSERVING  51,000 Gall ONS  OF GaSOlINE
OR
CONSERVING  2.4 RaIlCaRS OF COal 
Source: EPA “Greenhouse Gas Equivalency Calculator” , http://www.epa.govPRIORIT y: PROTECTING  THE  ENVIRONMENT   Verizon now operates 29 high-definition videoconference 
locations, including 12 international sites, using Cisco’s Tele -
presence product and our own global network. Employees 
scheduled the videoconference meeting rooms more than 8,000 times, avoiding the equivalent of 8 million pounds of CO
2 emissions. More locations will be added to our video -
conference network in 2010. 
  BigFix, a software program that enables remote PC manage -
ment, was installed on approximately 150,000 of our PCs.  
The software places inactive PCs into auto-sleep mode.  
When fully deployed, the BigFix initiative can potentially  
save as much as $7 million annually in energy costs.  Drivers of Verizon vehicles did their part to save energy in 
2009 by turning off their vehicles instead of idling. This “idling reduction” program saved 1.7 million gallons of fuel, equiva-lent to eliminating more than 33 million pounds of CO
2. 
  Verizon’s Transportation group re-engineered the way we 
receive freight shipments in 2009 with an eye to signifi-cantly reducing the associated CO
2 emissions. By cutting 
back on air shipments, consolidating truck deliveries and increasing use of rail shipping, the team was able to reduce the CO
2 emissions in this part of our supply chain by 14.4%. 
53In 2009 Verizon introduced 15 new alternative fuel 
vehicles as the result of grants awarded by two New  
york environmental organizations.
The new vehicles incorporate either hybrid or compressed 
natural gas technology into bucket trucks—the staple vehicle in the telecommunications industry for building and maintaining aerial cable or other facilities. Both designs are part of our broader strategy to increase  the number of alternative energy vehicles in our fleet  
to more than 1,800 in 2010. 
Bucket trucks consume approximately one-third of 
all the fuel used by our fleet because of their weight and the need for onboard gas-powered generators to operate the lift mechanisms. So it’s important to increase the fuel efficiency of these vehicles.
We received a grant from New york’s Greater Long 
Island Clean Cities Coalition to incorporate hybrid technology into five bucket trucks for use on Long Island. We worked with our vehicle suppliers to build a plug-in hybrid bucket truck that offers the fuel-saving benefits of a traditional hybrid engine and eliminates the need for a generator. An onboard battery assists in accelerating the vehicle and powers the lift and lights. 
We also received a grant from the New york State 
Energy Research & Development Authority to convert 
10 bucket trucks for use in New york City. We again 
worked with our suppliers to convert the engines to run on domestically-produced compressed natural gas. The onboard generator was replaced with a unique hybrid system that uses stored energy from a battery  to operate the lift and lights. VERIz ON aDDS  NEW  alTERNa TIVE  FuEl VEHIClES  TO ITS FlEET
Telecommunications Equipment Recycling (thousands of tons)
Cell Phone Battery Recycling and Reclamation  (tons)
Paper and Cardboard Recycling (thousands of tons)
Environmental NoticesVERIz ON REC yClINGReducing, Reusing and Recycling
  Verizon was inducted into the Environ-
mental Protection Agency’s WasteWise Hall of Fame in 2007, the highest honor in the WasteWise Program. Each year, we report our recycling activities to the EPA and receive feedback on how much these efforts reduce our CO
2 
emissions. On average, we’ve reduced our emissions by 475 million pounds annually through our recycling and waste prevention efforts. 
  Approximately 500,000 PCs and other 
electronics were collected in Verizon in 2009 as part of a corporate-wide program to collect unwanted units and either recycle or remarket them (for more details on how Verizon is managing e-waste, see page 28).   We processed more than 26 million 
pounds of material in 2009 from  
cable that was taken out of service from our network. 
   A Smart Print program was launched 
at the Verizon Operations Center in Basking Ridge, NJ that sets black & white, doubled-side copies as a stan-dard. In three months, we’ve cut costs by $180,000. Our goal is to reduce printing at the Verizon Center by 20%, which will reduce paper usage by an estimated 6.5 million sheets and save approximately $700,000 annually. Smart Print will expand to another 46 locations in 2010, bringing additional savings of $460,000 annually. Verizon Wireless Completes Self- audit 
of Facilities, Gains EP a Clearance
Verizon Wireless has concluded an audit of its cell site, switch and non-retail building facilities under an audit agreement with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 
The audit identified potential violations 
of various laws governing hazardous substance reporting, air permitting and spill plan preparation. A consent agree -
ment relating to the audit was approved on November 24, 2009 by the EPA. 
While Verizon Wireless does not 
believe that any of the alleged viola-tions has resulted in a release or threatened release, Verizon Wireless paid aggregate penalties of $468,600. 
5437.5
182.3
22.6
45
 2007
  2008
  2009  PRIORIT y: PROTECTING  THE  ENVIRONMENT
49158.5
166.555  2007 2008 2009
PHONES COllECTED  1,070,000  1,129,000  1,100,000
PHONES REFuRbISHED  818,000 764,000  927,000
PHONES RECyClED  252,000 365,000 173,000
PHONES DONaTED TO SHElTERS  20,800 21,000  23,000
CaSH DONaTED FROM HOPElINE FuNDS  $1,722,000 $1,531,000  $1,587,000REC yClING  HElPS  FuND  HOPElINE
  
  
   For the third consecutive year, Verizon collected more 
than one million no-longer-used wireless phones 
through its HopeLine phone recycling and reuse program, keeping the devices out of landfills and turning them into support for domestic violence survivors.
Consumers and businesses donated nearly 1.1  
million devices in 2009, along with batteries and accessories. The donations were made at our stores, by mail using the online postage-paid label and at phone drives nationwide.
HopeLine distributed nearly 23,000 phones with 69 
million free minutes of service to almost 600 shelters nationwide for use by clients during the year, and awarded approximately $1.6 million in cash grants to domestic violence prevention and awareness programs.Exclusive to Verizon Wireless, HopeLine accepts  
no-longer-used wireless phones and equipment in any condition from any service provider. The phones are either refurbished for reuse or recycled in an environ-mentally sound way. Proceeds from the program are used to provide wireless phones and support to victims and to support nonprofit domestic violence shelters and prevention programs across the country. 
Since 2001, HopeLine has collected more than 6.7 
million phones, awarded more than $7.9 million in cash grants to prevention and awareness programs nationwide, and donated more than 90,000 wireless phones with 300 million minutes of airtime to victims and domestic violence organizations.VERIz ON HOPElINE  CONTINuES  TO SET  RECORDS
56
Promoting the ‘Green’  
benefits of broadband
  In 2009, Verizon established an internal 
group to guide the growing number of initiatives across the company involving “smart grids” , i.e., applying our network and information technology management expertise to help utili-ties improve the energy efficiency of the electric system. To learn more, visit http://www.verizonbusiness.com/us/solutions/utilit y. 
  Verizon Wireless is working with 
Consert, IBM and the Fayetteville Public Works Commission (FPWC) to launch a “smart grid” pilot project with more than 200 commercial and resi-dential participants in Fayetteville, NC. Participants can set daily use profiles, check and adjust energy consump -
tion from an Internet connection, select a monthly target bill amount, and authorize FPWC to cycle their appliances off for brief periods during peak energy times. Data is trans-
mitted over our 3G network. 
  Results indicate the typical consumer 
can save, on average, 15% or more of their normal energy use solely through monitoring. 
  Verizon Wireless and Ambient Corpo -
ration have forged a joint marketing 
agreement to boost development of projects that enable utilities across the country to transmit data from both residential and commercial meters over Verizon’s network to the utility companies’ in-house systems.
  Verizon’s conferencing services are 
helping a growing number of busi-nesses significantly reduce their carbon footprint. Verizon now handles thousands of meetings each month for customers, eliminating the greenhouse-gas emissions and the high costs associated with business travel (to learn more, please visit: https://emeetings.verizonbusiness.com/global/en/green/index.php ). 
  Verizon’s Fleet Administrator service 
enables customers to tap into a GPS device installed on a vehicle via an Internet connection. The software lets users track location/direction, speed, vehicle stops, ignition and battery on/off signals in real time which can significantly minimize mileage and maximize fuel efficiency. The soft -
ware also includes a module to track 
and report vehicle performance.   For 
more detail on how our services are promoting energy-efficient behavior, visit http://www.verizonbusiness.com/solutions/green/ .Verizon employees scheduled thousands of virtual meetings in 2009, avoiding more than 8 million pounds of CO 2 emissions. PRIORIT y: PROTECTING  THE  ENVIRONMENTVerizon has been tracking its green -
house gas (GHG or CO 2 ), emissions since 
2001. The makeup of our company has 
varied in that time through acquisi-tions and sales, but our approach to calculating CO
2 emissions has remained 
consistent. This has allowed us to compare our emissions year over year. 
Methodology
Verizon collects emissions data each calendar year within the United States. Our profile is based on The Green-house Gas Protocol®, a widely used accounting framework developed by the World Resources Institute and used by governments and business world-wide to quantify and manage emis-sions (http://www.ghgprotocol.org/). 
Our profile includes what this framework 
defines as Scope 1 and Scope 2 sources: 
 
 •  Scope 1: We base these direct emis-sions on the fuel used by our fleet. To calculate the emissions we use the emission factors provided by the EPA: 8.8 kg of CO
2 per gallon of gasoline and 
10.1 kg of CO 2 per gallon of diesel fuel.
 •  Scope 2: We base these indirect emis -
sions on electricity used by Verizon. To calculate the emissions we use the national average of the EPA’s latest e-Grid factors: 0.0006027 metric tons of CO
2 per KWH.Based on our experience with the California Climate Action Registry, this methodology captures approximately 95% of Verizon’s actual emissions.
Results
Using the above methodology, Verizon produced approximately 6,491,011 metric tons of CO
2 in 2009 (see above). 
While our actual emissions have increased slightly in recent years in conjunction with the growth of our business, our emissions intensity—that is, the amount of CO
2 emissions 
per million dollars of revenue— has been decreasing (see charts left). 
Refining the Process
To date Verizon has produced its GHG Profile on a voluntary basis and has released this information to the public via this report, our corporate responsibility Web site (www.responsibility.verizon.com) and the Carbon Disclosure Project. 
 We will continue to refine our process to strive to capture 100% of our emis-sions. We are expanding our method-ology to include emissions produced 
by our emergency generators and boilers, emissions from steam usage 
and emissions from business travel.6,2206,271
2007 2008 2009CO 2 EMISSIONS   
PROFIlE
(THOUSANDS OF  
METRIC TONS)   METRIC % OF 
  uSa GE TONS  OF CO 2  EMISSIONS
GaSOlINE  (Gall ONS)  50,877,985  447,814  7%
DIESEl (Gall ONS)  5,654,221 57,108  1%
ElECTRICIT y (KWH)  9,932,120,544 5,986,089 92%
TOTal   6,491,011  100%
57METRIC TONS OF CO2 PER 
MIllION DOllaRS IN REVENuE
2007 2008 2009Cal Cula TING  VERIz ON’S GREENHOuSE  GaS  EMISSIONS  PROFIlE  
6,491
66.5
64.4
60.258EMPl OyEE PROFIlE   
12/31/09
“ I WISH  TO THaNK  OuR  EMPl OyEES  FOR  THEIR  
EFFORTS  IN a TOuGH yEaR. I a M INSPIRED  
by WH aT THE y DO, Day IN aND Day OuT, TO 
MaINT aIN  OuR  CuSTOMERS ’ VITal HuM aN 
CONNECTIONS  aND  DEMONSTR aTE THE  
DEDIC aTION  TO a HIGHER  PuRPOSE  THa T 
CHaR aCTERIzES  all GREa T COMP aNIES . ” 
IVaN SEIDENbERG  
CHAIRMAN  AND  CEO  
VERIZON  COMMUNICATIONS2009 EMPLO yEE PROFILE
People of color represent 22% of senior management (vice president and above).   
         TOTAL  U.S. 
         LABOR   
By E THNICIT y    TOTAL  EMPLO yEES, 12/31/09  TOTAL  EMPLO yEES, 12/31/08 FORCE
aMERIC aN INDIaN /alaSK a Na TIVE   1,181 0.6% 1,230 0.6% 0.7%
aSIaN    9,362 4.4% 9,436 4.4% 3.6%  
NaTIVE  Ha WaIIaN/ Pa CIFIC  ISlaNDER   687 0.3% 695 0.3% 0.1%
bla CK/aFRIC aN aMERIC aN   41,956 19.9% 42,551 19.9% 10.6%  
HISP aNIC /laTINO    20,333 9.6% 20,248 9.5% 10.7%  
TWO Ra CES OR M ORE   2,942 1.4% 2,742 1.3% 1.6%  
WHITE    134,417 63.7% 136,670 64.0% 73.6%  
TOTal u .S.   210,878  213,572  
INTERNa TIONal    12,049  10,794  
TOTal W ORlDWIDE    222,927  224,366 59EMPl OyEE PROFIlE   
12/31/09We will need all our employees’ creative energy as we enter the most innovative era in the history of our industry.
Women represent 29% of senior management (vice president and above).         TOTAL  U.S. 
         LABOR   
By GENDER  (WORLDWIDE)     TOTAL  EMPLO yEES, 12/31/09  TOTAL  EMPLO yEES, 12/31/08 FORCE
TOT al FEM alE    90,031 40.4% 90,812 40.5% N/A  
TOT al MalE    132,986 59.6% 133,554 59.5% N/A  
TOT al WORlDWIDE    222,927   224,366            TOTAL  U.S. 
         LABOR   
By GENDER  (INTERNATIONAL)     TOTAL  EMPLO yEES, 12/31/09  TOTAL  EMPLO yEES, 12/31/08 FORCE
FEM alE    2,684 22.3% 2,455 22.7% N/A  
MalE    9,365 77.7%  8,339 77.3% N/A  
TOT al INTERNa TIONal    12,049  10,794         TOTAL  U.S. 
         LABOR   
By GENDER ( U.S.)    TOTAL  EMPLO yEES, 12/31/09  TOTAL  EMPLO yEES, 12/31/08 FORCE
FEM alE    87,347 41.4% 88,357 41.4% 46.8%  
MalE    123,531 58.6% 125,215 58.6% 53.2%  
TOTal u .S.   210,878  213,572   602009 F INANCIAL  & O PERATING  STATISTICS 
CONSOlID aTED  REVENuES $107.8 BILLION
NET INCOME aTTRIbuT ablE TO VERIz ON $3.65 BILLION
OPER aTING  CaSH  FlOW $31.6 BILLION
CaPIT al INVESTMENT $17.0 BILLION
DEClaRED  DIVIDENDS  PER  SHaRE $1.87
REPORTED  EaRNINGS  PER  SHaRE $1.29
Verizon’s wireless and 
fiber technologies are 
laying the foundation for the next phase of growth and innovation for our company, our customers and our country. VERIZON  WIRELESS
REVENuE $62.1 billion 
CuSTOmERS 91.2 million
COmPANY -OPERATE d STORES  & k IOS kS 2,000+
SWITChINg CENTERS 175+
VERIZON  WIRELINE  
REVENuE  (RESIdENTIAL  ANd BuSINESS)  $46.1 billion
FIOS TV CuSTOmERS 2.9 million
FIOS INTERNET  CuSTOmERS 3.4 million
BROAdBANd CONNECTIONS 9.2 million
ACCESS  LINES   32.6 million
gLOBAL  IP NETWORk PRESENCE 2,700+ cities in 159 countries
dATA  CENTERS 200+ in 22 countries
ENTERPRISE  CuSTOmER BASE  96% of tHe fortune 1000 and  
  businesses witH 20 or more lines
Verizon c ommunications i nc. (n Yse, nasda Q: VZ), headquartered in new 
York, is a global leader in delivering broadband and other wireless and wireline 
communications services to mass market, business, government and wholesale 
customers. Verizon wireless operates a merica’s most reliable wireless network, 
serving more than 91 million customers nationwide. Verizon also provides converged communications, information and entertainment services over 
america’s most advanced fiber-optic network, and delivers innovative, seamless 
business solutions to customers around the world. 
for more information, visit www.verizon.com .
in keeping with Verizon’s commitment to protect the environment, Verizon supports responsible 
forest management practices. this report was printed on new l eaf r eincarnation m atte 95# cover 
and 80# text, which are certified by the f orest s tewardship c ouncil (fsc ) and contain 100% recycled 
fiber made from 50% post-consumer waste.verizon.com/responsibility
©2010 Verizon All Rights Reserved. 