Verizon Communications
08/09  Corporate Responsibility Report
Integrity/Respect/Performance  Excellence/AccountabilityDoing the work 
that makes
a positive impact
on people 
 2 Message from the Chairman and CEO
 8 Holding Ourselves Accountable
14  Seeking Independent Review
18  Focusing on the Challenges
  Wireless Safety
  Helping People Access Content
  Online Advertising
26  Applying Our Energy to Society’s Big Issues
  Environment
  Health Care
 36 Delivering Measurable Results
 We will show you what we have done over the 
past year to expand the reach and impact of  
our signature programs and to deepen our 
partnerships with stakeholders. Also, in response 
to feedback from the corporate responsibility 
community, we include the results of our first-
ever stakeholder engagement survey, which will 
help us focus future efforts on those issues that 
matter most to our constituents. 
What we hope you will take away from this  
report is that — in a year in which the ground 
has shifted dramatically under the feet of  
corporations and stakeholders alike — Verizon’s  welcome to Verizon’s Corporate responsibility report for 2008–2009. in the 
pages that follow, you will read about our accomplishments and challenges  
in our five corporate responsibility priorities. message from the Chairman an D Ceo
On behalf of Verizon 
Communications, 
Chairman and CEO Ivan 
Seidenberg accepted the 
NEA Foundation’s Inaugural 
Award for Philanthropy in 
Public Education. The award 
was presented at the NEA 
Foundation’s annual Salute  
to Excellence in Education 
awards gala on February 6, 
2009 in Washington, D.C.
commitment to corporate responsibility is  
as rock-solid as ever. 
As you will see, Verizon’s community engage -
ment is both broad and deep. Over our long 
history, our sustained record of corporate 
citizenship has been nourished by our belief 
that providing better ways to communicate is 
inherently valuable to society. We have codified 
that belief in the Verizon Commitment and  
Values (see page 6) that govern our interaction  
with customers, co-workers and stakeholders. 
Our employees animate those values every day  
by serving our customers and by contributing their money and hundreds of thousands of  
volunteer hours to make our communities  
better places to work and live. 
Few companies touch as many lives, or reach  
as many communities, as Verizon. We comple -
ment this breadth of reach with a corporate 
responsibility approach that focuses on  
five strategic priorities that we believe will  
have the biggest impact on society:
 ethics and governance
 service and innovation
 empowering employees
 Protecting the environment
 Partnering with communities
This disciplined and consistent approach to 
corporate responsibility allows us to focus our 
resources, form long-lasting partnerships and 
build a knowledge base about how to really 
make a difference in our communities over the 
long haul. You can read a summary of what 
we accomplished in 2008 and what we will do 
next in each of these areas on pages 8–13. 
The theme of this report —  “Doing the Work”—  
reflects the commitment to operational  
excellence that permeates everything we do. 
To ensure that our corporate responsibility  
efforts are producing the results we seek, we 
have established a disciplined process and 
structure that translates our belief in the social 
benefits of networks into specific goals, actions 
and lines of accountability. 
Verizon’s Corporate Responsibility Council — 
composed of senior executives and chaired  
by Tom Tauke, executive vice president of  
Public Affairs, Policy and Communications, 
and Virginia Ruesterholz, president of Verizon 
Services Operations — identifies issues,  
establishes priorities, tracks results and  
integrates corporate responsibility into our 
business operations. Through our Strategic Alliances group and 
Consumer Advisory Board, we engage in a  
constant dialogue with stakeholders, which gives 
us an “outside-in” view of our practices and 
alerts us to emerging issues. The intelligence 
we gain from these initiatives makes us a smarter  
business and assures that we remain focused 
on the issues that are most relevant to our 
constituents.
Delivering results
We made big strides in 2008 in using our intel -
lectual, financial and technological resources 
to deliver meaningful results on our corporate 
responsibility priorities. 
For example, we are at our core a network  
company. We believe in our bones that advanced  
communications technologies — ultra-fast 
broadband, wireless and global Internet 
backbones — play a uniquely powerful role in 
connecting communities and individuals to the 
mind-expanding possibilities of the digital world. 
Our goal is to deliver this vital technology to as 
many people as fast as we can, and in 2008 we 
invested $17 billion to expand our networks and 
enhance their capabilities. Our fiber-optic network, 
FiOS, passed more than 13 million homes at the 
end of 2008 as we expanded our presence in large 
metropolitan areas like New Y ork City, Philadelphia,  
and Washington, D.C. 
We are leading the industry in moving to fourth-  
generation wireless network technology, which 
will take mobile broadband to a new level, help 
spread broadband to rural areas, and embed 
wireless connectivity into a whole new generation 
of consumer electronics, vehicles, smart grids and  
other innovations. 
These networks are critical not just to Verizon’s 
growth, but to that of the economy as a whole  
in that they are a platform for the creativity,  
innovation and productivity that lie at the heart 
of true, sustainable value creation.2 / 3All of our signature corporate responsibility 
programs are designed to put the innovative 
power of these technologies to work in  
addressing the important social challenges  
of our day, and in 2008 we extended the reach 
and impact of this agenda. 
For example, we know from working with  
educators and literacy organizations over the  
years that one of the most effective ways to  
improve student achievement is to put better  
tools in teachers’ hands. That’s what we’ve done  
with our award-winning online educational  
resource, Thinkfinity.orgsm, which uses the power 
of the Internet to give educators, parents, librarians 
and students access to multimedia resources 
provided by some of the leading cultural, scientific 
and educational institutions in the country. 
In 2008, Thinkfinity.org attracted some 25 
million visitors, and we continue to work with 
our education partners to extend its reach and 
engage the broad educational community 
in using the Internet’s power as a teaching 
resource to its fullest extent. 
We also were early advocates for using information  
technology to improve the quality and reduce 
the cost of health care for all Americans  — a key 
focus of our work on the Consumer Health and 
Retirement Initiative of the Business Roundtable,  
of which I am the chairperson. So we are espe -
cially gratified that the stimulus bill passed 
in early 2009 contains substantial funding to 
launch this important health IT initiative on a 
national scale. 
Recognizing early on how a simple cell phone 
could help domestic violence victims take  
control of their lives, our employees have carved 
out a vital role for Verizon in the area of family  
health and safety. Over the years, Verizon’s 
Hopeline® program has raised more than $6.3 
million for the prevention of domestic violence—
money that has gone to support shelters and 
nonprofit organizations across the country. And we continue to introduce innovative 
products that adapt broadband and mobile 
technologies to the needs of people with  
disabilities and physical challenges.
Another area where we think our technology 
can make a difference for America is in energy 
conservation and environmental preservation.  
We have been focused for a long time on  
reducing our own carbon footprint through 
conservation, paperless billing, more fuel-
efficient vehicles and other practices. 
We also are exploring how broadband networks  
can help customers “go green” by substituting 
for more energy-intensive forms of commerce. 
More broadly, next-generation wireless and 
broadband technologies will be vital elements of 
a new, “smart” infrastructure for our country  — 
embedding sensors and machine-to-machine 
communications capabilities that can help 
regulate traffic, improve energy efficiency and 
improve public safety.
Verizon is also taking the lead in formulating 
the norms, rules and codes of conduct for the 
ever-growing online community. 
Three years ago, we launched the “Partnership 
for a Child-Safe Internet, ” in which we work with 
state attorneys general to educate parents, law  
enforcement agencies, community organizations 
and others about how to create a safe online 
environment for children, and we offer a  
wide range of tools for parents to manage their 
family’s use of our wireless and broadband 
services. As more and more content moves 
online, we have developed and posted a 
formal policy to govern our use of digital 
intellectual property. 
Our strong policies for protecting customers’  
online information helped make Verizon one  
of the 20 most trusted companies for privacy,  
according to the respected annual survey con -
ducted by TRUSTe and the Ponemon Institute. 
 Of course, we’re not in this alone. As you will 
see in these pages, we rely on a network of  
valued partners and stakeholders to magnify 
our work and maximize our impact. We thank 
them for their leadership and look forward  
to strengthening those partnerships as we  
go forward. 
For all the challenges in our environment, we  
approach the future with confidence and the firm 
belief that, by doing the work, we will continue  
to make a difference for our customers, our  
communities and our country.
     
Ivan Seidenberg    
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
Verizon a sustainable model
In these very challenging economic times, we 
are reminded that one of the most important 
ways a corporation like Verizon contributes to 
society is by running a good business: delivering  
good service to customers, innovating and  
investing, paying a steady dividend to shareowners  
and providing meaningful work and a good 
work environment for employees. I am proud  
of Verizon’s performance on all these fronts. 
Our investment in infrastructure continues  
despite the recession, as does our investment in 
educating and training our increasingly diverse 
workforce for the jobs of the future. So as I told 
our shareowners in our 2008 Annual Report, 
Verizon’s business model is built to last, under 
any economic conditions. The same is true of 
our commitment to corporate responsibility. 
As I mentioned earlier, we conducted our first-
ever survey of stakeholders to see what they 
thought of Verizon’s corporate responsibility 
efforts. We learned a lot from this dialogue  
and will use the insights we gained to improve 
going forward. I was very gratified, however, to 
see that when asked what Verizon’s strengths 
are when it comes to corporate responsibility, 
our stakeholders cited the longevity  and consis -
tency  of our commitment — two words that  
go to the heart of who we are.
Our commitment to being a positive force in 
society is at the core of our identity.
Our products and services are indispensable in 
the lives of millions of customers. By enabling 
businesses to work smarter and faster, we will 
be one of the companies that will help put our 
economy back on the path to prosperity and 
growth. And by putting our empowering tech -
nologies in people’s hands to transform health 
care, educate our young people for the 21st 
century and conserve energy, Verizon will play 
a huge and constructive role in creating a more 
sustainable, dynamic and equitable society.by putting our empowering technologies in people’s hands  
to transform health care, educate our young people for the  
21st century and conserve energy,  Verizon will Play  
a huge an D Constru CtiVe role  in creating a more  
sustainable, dynamic and equitable society. ”“4 / 5the Verizon commitment puts our customers first by providing excellent 
service and great communications experiences. t his is what we do and 
this is why we exist. in order to keep this commitment, we must always 
honor our core values:
integrity
Integrity is at the heart of everything we do. We are honest, ethical and upfront because trust 
is at the foundation of our relationships with our customers, our communities, our stakeholders 
and each other.
resPeCt
We know it is critical that we respect everyone at every level of our business. We champion 
diversity, embrace individuality and listen carefully when others speak.
Performan Ce e xCellen Ce
We hold ourselves to a very high standard of performance. We prize innovative ideas and 
the teamwork it takes to make them realities. We never stop asking ourselves how we can 
make the customer experience better, and every day we find an answer.
aCCountability
We take responsibility for our actions as individuals, as team members and as an organization.  
We work together, support one another and never let the customer — or our co-workers — down.
Great companies are judged by what they do, not by what they say. To be the best, we’re 
going to keep pushing ourselves in new and exciting directions. These values will guide 
our every action.Verizon Commitment an D Valuesawar Ds & h onors
Diversity and w orkplace excellence
  For the ninth consecutive year, DiversityInc  
named Verizon one of the top companies on 
its list of Top 50 Companies for Diversity. Our 
2009 rank: No. 12. Verizon is the only company 
to be named No. 1 twice (2006 and 2008). 
  For the eighth consecutive year, Working Mother  
magazine named Verizon one of the 100 Best 
Companies for Working Mothers. Verizon 
was also named to the magazine’s list of Best 
Companies for Multicultural Women for the 
third consecutive year. 
  For the third consecutive year, BusinessWeek  
named Verizon to its list of Best Places to 
Launch a Career, ranked No. 22. 
  DiversityBusiness.com named Verizon one of 
America’s Top Organizations for Multicultural 
Business Opportunities for 2008, based on the 
volume, consistency and quality of business 
opportunities a company grants to women- 
and minority-owned suppliers.
 Verizon Wireless placed fourth on Training  
magazine’s 2008 list of Top 125 Training Organi -
zations in America. This is the seventh consecu -
tive year that Verizon Wireless was named to 
Training  magazine’s list.
  For the third time, Black Enterprise  magazine 
has named Verizon to its 40 Best Companies 
for Diversity list. Verizon was cited for spending 
$3.1 billion with women and minority suppliers 
in 2007, and for spending the highest percent -
age on advertising in diverse markets. 
  For the sixth consecutive year, LatinaStyle  
magazine named Verizon to its list of the  
50 Best Companies for Latinas to Work For  
in the U.S., ranking No. 13. 
  For the fourth consecutive year, Hispanic 
Business  magazine has named Verizon to the 
Top 15 of the publication’s Diversity Elite 60 
list, based on evaluations of hiring, promotion, 
marketing, philanthropy and supplier diversity.Corporate Citizenship
  For the second consecutive year, Verizon was  
named one of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens  
by CRO  magazine, based on company efforts 
in climate change, employee relations, the 
environment, financial performance, gover -
nance, human rights, lobbying disclosure 
and philanthropy.
  The Ponemon Institute and TRUSTe, the online  
privacy evaluator, ranked Verizon among the  
top 20 U.S. companies in the fifth annual survey  
of Most Trusted Companies for Privacy.
  The Big Money  Web site ranks Verizon’s overall 
corporate responsibility performance 40th out  
of nearly 500 of the nation’s largest companies.  
The ranking is managed by IW Financial 
(www.thebigmoney.com/tools/socially-
responsible-investing ). 
  We are included in the following socially 
responsible investment funds: FTSE4Good 
Index, KLD Domini 400, Ethibel Sustainability 
Index and in 2008 were included in the Calvert 
Group’s Large Cap Value Fund. 
environment 
  Verizon has earned the federal government’s 
Energy Star Award for operating the nation’s  
largest fuel cell site of its kind, an environ -
mentally friendly call-switching center and 
office building in Garden City, New York. 
  Verizon’s environmental policies and customer-
facing initiatives have earned Frost & Sullivan’s 
2008 Green Excellence of the Year Award in 
the Corporate Leadership category for the 
telecom services industry. 
  Verizon Wireless was named one of InfoWorld’s   
Green 15 for 2008 for IT initiatives that result 
in higher energy efficiency, less waste and 
a reduced environmental impact to meet 
sustainability goals. 6 / 7  Collaborate with suppliers to implement an  
audit that focuses on Corporate Responsibility. 
  Deploy FiOS services to multiple dwelling  
units (MDUs) in urban locations.
  Increase spending with diverse suppliers.
  Develop business unit plans in-synch with  
Supplier Diversity targets.
 Improve Thinkfinity.org: make Web site 
easier to use; increase usage by 30%; launch 
after-school component; and add 250 new 
educational resources.
  Reach 25% more people through  
Verizon-supported domestic violence  
prevention programs.
  Boost participation in Verizon Volunteers  
by 10%.
  Achieve measurable improvements in  
student literacy via programs supported  
by Verizon grants.   Our network investment creates jobs, spurs 
innovation and stimulates growth along the 
supply chain.
  Our goal is to promote broadband access 
for all and to tap the potential of Verizon’s 
wireline and wireless technology to address 
great social needs. 
  We are committed to using our financial, human 
and technological resources to improve the 
quality of life in our communities. 
  Our goal is to use technology to address social 
issues that are critical to our business success 
and the well-being of our communities. 
Those issues: education and literacy, family 
health and safety, employee volunteerism.
Partnering 
with  
Communities  Investigate the criteria driving socially 
responsible investors (SRI) and remove  
impediments to their investing in Verizon.
  Integrate “reputation risk” considerations 
in corporate risk assessment process. 
  Adopt new content guidelines consistent 
with our belief in strong, open networks 
and consumer choice. 
  Review the systems and policies that 
protect customers’ personal information 
to ensure continued viability.
  Engage outside experts to review the  
2007 Corporate Responsibility report.
 Draft a Human Rights Statement.  Integrity and respect are fundamental in  
every area of our business  — how we interact  
with customers, investors, the public and  
one another.
  Our goal is to operate our business with the 
highest level of integrity and accountability, 
building on the trust we have earned over  
the years.
ethi Cs an D  
goVernan CeholD ing oursel Ves a CCountable
what we said we’d do our focus
what we said we’d do our focus  Invited 20 suppliers to join an 
audit to assess labor, ethics, health, 
safety and environmental activity.
  By December 2008, FiOS services 
had been extended to approximately 
1 million living units—up from 
33,000 in 2005.
  Increased spending with diverse  
suppliers nearly 13% to $3.5 billion.
  Thinkfinity.org achievements:  
redesigned Web site; launched  
after-school training ( thinkfinity.  
org/AfterSchoolHome.aspx);  
boosted usage 64%; trained more 
than 28,000 educators; introduced 
500 new online lessons.  Improve current supplier audit tool to  
better identify risk areas and manage  
corrective actions.
  Expand SafeWork training on domestic  
violence prevention inside the company  
to reach more employees.
  Thinkfinity.org goals: increase visits by  
30%; add new education materials about 
the environment and climate change;  
train 38,000 teachers; establish presence  
in 1,000 additional public schools.
  Increase employee volunteerism in our  
communities by 10%. 
  Achieve gains in student literacy via  
grants and related programs.  Expanded our outreach about 
domestic violence prevention by 
holding our third national summit,  
launching Safety Net training  
(verizonfoundation.org/media/  
safetynet.shtml ), and rolling  
out of SafeWork training  
(safehorizon.org/safework ). 
  Boosted employee volunteer  
participation by 25% to 608,000 
total hours.
  Awarded 51 grants tied to measur -
able improvements in literacy: 
grants used to train 2,552 teachers 
and instruct more than 15,000 
students.  Listened to the views of leading 
SRI firms; delivered information on 
our environmental, social and gov -
ernance (ESG) activities to Calvert 
Group, Dow Jones, Goldman Sachs 
Investment Research, and EIRIS.
  Included in Calvert’s Large Cap 
Value Fund, which noted we show 
“emerging strength” in several ESG 
areas.
  Conducted reputation survey; 
identified top reputation risks;  
integrated the information into  
our financial risk/audit process. 
  Developed new “Guiding Principles  
for Content on Verizon Networks”  
(www.verizon.com/contentpolicy ).   Continue pursuing Verizon’s listing on  
leading domestic and global SRI indices.
  Communicate our Human Rights Statement  
to employees, customers and stakeholders.
  Complete the update of Verizon’s privacy 
policies and communicate to employees, 
customers and stakeholders. 
  Incorporate “reputation risk” assessment  
into our compliance process.
  Retrain all Verizon employees on the Verizon 
Code of Conduct to reaffirm our commitment 
to living our core values: integrity, respect,  
performance excellence and accountability.  Completed review of systems  
that protect customers’ personal 
information.
  Began comprehensive update of  
all Verizon privacy policies.
  Polled management on potential 
conflicts of interest; held compliance 
training for Verizon managers that 
included political activities, records 
management and obstruction  
of justice. 
  Published 2008 report of political 
contributions online ( verizon.com/
responsibility ). 
   Adopted Verizon Human Rights 
Statement (May 2009). what we did what we’ll do next
what we did what we’ll do next8 / 9  It’s our responsibility to minimize the impact 
of our operations by conserving energy, recy -
cling and finding solutions to environmental 
challenges.
  We promote the positive environmental  
effects of broadband technologies that  
reduce energy use through telework,  
e-commerce and smart transportation.  Promote research on how broadband  
can help minimize environmental impact. 
  Educate policymakers on the environmental 
benefits of broadband and information 
communications technology (ICT).
  Educate customers on the environmental 
benefits of telework programs powered  
by broadband technologies.
  Create an organization to monitor a  
Verizon-wide energy conservation/  
greenhouse gas emission strategy.
  Deploy additional hybrid vehicles in  
Verizon’s fleet.
  Continue reducing CO2 emissions and  
increasing recycling rates.Prote Cting the  
enVironment  Encourage development of programs 
that promote ways to improve the health 
of our employees, including culturally 
sensitive programs that meet the needs 
of our diverse workforce.
  Boost employee participation in on-site 
health services.
  Enhance utility of HealthZone and 
encourage more employees to register 
and participate. The Verizon HealthZone 
Web site, powered by WebMD®, provides 
employees with easy-to-find health  
information and simple-to-use tools  
for managing their health.
  Continue encouraging employees to 
improve their work skills.   We want Verizon to be a great place to work, 
with a culture that respects the individual and 
taps the full range of talent and potential in 
employees.
  We seek the best people — those with the skills  
and talent, diversity of experiences and 
insights, and the drive to position Verizon as 
the leader in delivering broadband and other 
wireline and wireless communication innova -
tions to customers. 
  Our approach is to put the tools for managing  
their futures in the hands of our people. In return,  
we offer challenging and satisfying careers.
emPowering 
emPloyeeswhat we said we’d do our focus
what we said we’d do our focus  Funded landmark study that found 
ICT can reduce U.S. carbon emissions 
up to 22% by 2020 and reduce 
dependence on foreign oil by 36% 
(www.gesi.org ).
  Advocated broadband as an energy  
solution, focusing on “smart” electric  
grids and buildings, and telework. 
  Worked with the Climate Group 
and World Wildlife Fund to promote 
the environmental benefits of 
broadband.
  Expanded environmentally friendly 
product/service line-up for business 
customers ( verizonbusiness.com/us/
solutions/green ).
  Introduced “Go Paperless”  campaign  
(verizon.com/paperlessbilling ).  
In 2008, 97 million paper bills were  
replaced by paperless billing, saving  
an estimated 2,150 tons of paper.   Expand the number of fuel-efficient 
vehicles in the company fleet. 
  Conduct alternate energy trials — solar,  
fuel cell and geo-thermal — in various  
Verizon operations sites.
  Conduct “smart building” technology 
trial to gauge internal savings and  
potential for new product line.
  Reduce Verizon employee business  
travel by expanding videoconferencing.
  Sign-up more customers to receive  
paperless billing. 
  Continue reducing CO2 emissions and  
increasing recycling rates.
  Decommission underutilized network  
equipment and real estate.
  Work with policymakers to identify new  
ways in which broadband technology  
can support energy efficiency, carbon  
reduction and energy independence goals.
  Continue educating our customers on  
environmentally friendly benefits of  
broadband services.   Decreased overall CO2 intensity 
from 66.5 metric tons of emissions 
per million dollars of revenue to  
64.4 metric tons per million dollars 
of revenue.
  Set new standards requiring 
broadband and video equipment 
suppliers to improve energy  
efficiency by 20%. 
  Formed group in Verizon’s Corporate 
Responsibility Council to direct and 
track Verizon’s “green” actions.
  Doubled the number of hybrid 
sedans in the company fleet to 200.
  Reduced our fleet’s fuel consump -
tion by 1 million gallons in 2008 
by cutting vehicle idling. 
  Applied energy efficiency measures 
in our buildings, reducing energy 
usage by 16.5 million kilowatts.
  Collected more than 1.1 million cell 
phones for refurbishing, donation 
and recycling.   Partnered with major health plans 
and the National Business Group 
on Health to develop programs 
that close the gaps in health care 
and outcomes for racial and ethnic 
minorities. 
  Increased employee participation 
in on-site health and wellness 
initiatives by 19%. 
  Doubled employees’ utilization of 
HealthZone in number of registra -
tions, health risk assessments and 
set-up of personal health records.
  Invested approximately $118 million 
in tuition assistance for 29,072  
employees, up from $112 million  
in 2007. Employees logged  
11.7 million training hours.   Continue building awareness and 
advocating for programs that close the 
gaps in care and outcomes for racial and 
ethnic minorities. 
  Engage all employees to “be well” by  
getting the right preventive care, early 
screenings and participating in programs 
designed to help manage chronic  
conditions.
  Enhance the company’s Healthy Babies 
program to further improve medical 
outcomes.
  Launch a new Career Development  
program for employees to help them 
make better career choices and decisions.
  Influence meaningful health care reform 
through our CWA/IBEW partnership,  
participation in Business Roundtable’s  
Health and Retirement Initiative and  
Health IT Now! coalition.   Negotiated new 3-year contract 
with CWA and IBEW that was over -
whelmingly ratified with no work 
disruption; the agreement includes 
moving approximately 600 non-
union jobs into bargaining units.
  Formed a partnership with the 
CWA and IBEW to influence health 
care reform with the following 
goals: assure affordable, quality 
care for all Americans, control 
costs, share responsibility and 
improve quality.what we did what we’ll do next
what we did what we’ll do next10 / 11  Open our wireless network so customers 
can use devices, software or applications  
not offered by Verizon.
  Launch a “big button” TV remote for 
visually challenged customers.
  Make Verizon.com  fully accessible for 
people with disabilities. 
  Execute “accessibility” campaign for  
65+ and disabled customers.
  Conduct additional online safety 
forums for the public in key Verizon 
operating areas.
  Make our online safety tools easier  
to find and use.
  Encourage states to adopt online  
safety education curriculum for kids. 
  Continue investing in the superior  
network technologies that are  
Verizon’s hallmark.   We build great networks that allow us to deliver  
communications, data and entertainment to 
our customers in ways that few companies  
can match.
  Our networks play a central role in energizing 
the marketplace, stimulating innovation and 
improving the quality of life for our customers.
  Our goal is to extend the opportunity for  
broadband access to all Americans.
  We will move forward  — on our own and  
with partners and suppliers — to extend the 
benefits of our technology to people who, 
for reasons of geography, economic status, 
age or physical limitations, have been slower 
to benefit from the broadband revolution. 
serVi Ce &  
inno Vationwhat we said we’d do our focus  Certified nearly 40 devices in 14 
months that can operate on our 
wireless network; designated  
two independent device testing  
labs ( verizonwireless.com/
opendevelopment ). 
 
  Selected manufacturer for  
“big button” TV remote.
  Began revamping our “Solutions 
for Customers with Disabilities” 
Web page ( verizon.com/disabilities )  
to improve ease-of-use. 
  Created videos in American Sign  
Language to promote wireless 
devices and calling plans  
(aboutus.vzw.com/accessibility/
nationwide_faq.html ). 
  Expanded videophone services 
to reach more hearing-impaired 
customers in New England, New 
York and the Potomac regions. 
 
  Launched “Next Generation Senior 
Phone, ” the Knack.
  Launched TALKS™ in March 2009  —  
a technology that converts displayed  
text into speech for Verizon Wireless 
customers who are blind or  
visually impaired.  Broaden line-up of wireless products/
services for seniors and visually-  
impaired consumers. 
  Roll out “big button” remote.
  Complete revamp of “Solutions for  
Customers with Disabilities” Web site.
  Expand videophone service at Verizon  
Centers for Customers with Disabilities 
to serve disabled customers from 
more regions of the country; launch 
wireless call center for people with 
disabilities.
  Expand FiOS TV video-on-demand 
library with titles that include spoken 
commentary (i.e., video-described)  
for vision-impaired customers.
  Expand online safety outreach to include  
seniors and domestic violence preven -
tion community. 
  Create a new family Web site that covers 
online safety issues and information. 
  Address technical and policy solutions/  
approaches to emerging child  
pornography/wireless safety issues.  Engaged state leaders, teachers, 
parents and kids in online safety 
forums in Alabama, Delaware, 
Maryland, Illinois and New Jersey.
  Expanded line-up of wireless  
parental controls tools; made  
parental controls products free 
to Verizon Online customers;  
launched “Parental Controls Center”  
(verizon.net/parentalcontrol ). 
  Forged partne rship with PBS  
to create K-12 online safety  
curriculum.
  Joined Virginia PTA in rollout of 
state-approved online safety  
education materials. 
  Purchased spectrum to accom -
modate growth of wireless data 
services and launch our fourth-
generation (4G) wireless network 
using Long Term Evolution (LTE) 
technology.
  Extended our FiOS® network to 
another 3 million homes during 
2008; FiOS now reaches 13 million 
households.
  Added to the security and robust -
ness of our network infrastructure 
in the U.S., Europe and the Asia-
Pacific region.what we did what we’ll do next12 / 13One of the most important actions Verizon 
can take in advancing its corporate respon -
sibility priorities is to have open, continuous 
dialogue with the wide range of people 
who are important to our business. 
 In this way we learn about the policy, busi -
ness or social issues that matter the most 
to them. And we get the opportunity to 
view ourselves and our decisions from the 
outside in. This 360° process takes various 
shapes — from high-level advisory groups 
and alliances to targeted outreach and 
memberships in local civic groups.
 At the national level, our Strategic Alliances 
Group works with national third-party 
groups that represent consumers, seniors, 
educators, low-income earners, the  
disabled, minorities, minority business 
and rural constituencies. 
Closely associated with our Strategic  
Alliances Group is Verizon’s long-standing 
Consumer Advisory Board. The board is 
made up of leaders from consumer and 
public interest organizations. The group 
provides an unfiltered advisory function 
for Verizon on key business and social issues. 
Judging what we do
An independent organization — Penn 
Schoen & Berland (PSB) of Washington, 
DC — polled 50 people from advocacy 
organizations, think tanks and NGOs with 
which we regularly work. The anonymous 
survey was conducted between February-
March 2009. The intent was to capture 
candid feedback on our social, educational 
and environmental programs and our 
effectiveness in communicating. Results 
from the survey are presented at right.
   Stakeholders have highly favorable views of 
Verizon’s corporate responsibility efforts, both 
generally and with respect to specific programs.
  Regardless of whether they agree with Verizon’s 
positions, stakeholders also give Verizon credit 
for transparency and open dialogue with people.
  But PSB found that only one in five stakeholders 
says that Verizon does a very good job of commu -
nicating about what it does (see accompanying 
charts). seeking in DePen Dent reView
stakeholD er 
engagementthe outside perspective research summary
0% 75%
24%
Better same w orse
“they’ve been very steadfast not  
onl y in terms of allocating money  
when times are good and when 
times are not so good, but they’ve  
stuck to their priorities from a 
funding point of view. they didn’t 
chop and change that, and a lot 
of corporations do. ”they reall y seem to be hitting  
on a lot of these issues that 
technology touches on, and 
that their business touches on, 
and i think that’s a very good 
way to show corporate respon -
sibility…looking at every area 
that can be affected. ”“Compared with other large companies, how  
would you rate Verizon on its performance  
as a good corporate citizen?seeking in DePen Dent reView
  Stakeholders say the breadth and depth of 
Verizon’s priorities make it a leader among  
U.S. companies.
  Long-term consistency of priorities is Verizon’s 
most differentiating quality, with education and 
broadband access perceived as top priorities.
  Many stakeholders note the innovative methods 
that Verizon employs to address its priorities, 
considering not only where to contribute but 
also how. For example, deploying its unique  
resources, such as providing phones for domestic 
violence survivors and education tools via  
the Internet.
  But many stakeholders say they were unaware 
of Verizon programs outside of their own field 
of interest or expertise.
  Stakeholders suggest Verizon needs to increase 
awareness of its programs so that more people 
can take advantage of them. And some believe 
stronger visibility would encourage other  
businesses to contribute. key findings additional findings & recommendations
 Thinkfinity.orgsm
  An excellent use of Verizon’s Internet technology and a much-needed 
supplement especially given strained budgets for public education.  
Teachers need more training to navigate the Thinkfinity.org site and 
utilize its tools.
  Recommendation: Provide more training and make the site  
easier to use.
 Domestic Violence Prevention
  Most applaud Verizon for defining a connection between its technology  
and an unseen social issue. They offer similar praise for using in-kind 
donations, which leaves it to experts to administer without interference. 
Not enough people are aware they can donate and receive phones 
through HopeLine®.
   Recommendation: Tell customers about donations at every touch 
point; work with partners to identify agencies and shelters.
 Internet Safety
  Many express personal interest in learning more about safety tools 
that Verizon offers. A majority favor empowering parents rather than 
legislation and censorship. A few said tools are not enough, suggesting 
that Verizon should educate and encourage more conversations.
   Recommendation: Boost awareness such as integrating efforts 
into Thinkfinity.org curriculum or developing public service  
announcements.
 Environmental Initiatives
  There is limited familiarity with environmental issues and criteria for 
defining an exceptional program. Still, many acknowledge that these 
efforts  — namely, using broadband technology to address energy 
issues —  could impact business practices and consumer markets.
  Recommendation: Keep investing to reduce carbon footprint and 
work to define benefits of company initiatives.47%35%
8%
Better same worse
  very good jo B
  somewhat good jo B  Bad jo B
  don’t know 49%21%
18%12%Compared with other large companies, how 
would you rate Verizon on how clearly it  
communicates its stances on policy issues?
Do you think that Verizon does  
a very good, somewhat good,  
somewhat bad or very bad job  
of communicating its corporate  
responsibility?verizon is often saying that their  
employees donate millions of  
hours to particular causes as  
volunteers. they should challenge 
10 other business partners to 
match their hours for the next  
five years — something big. ”“14 / 15 strengths
  Addresses social issues such as education,  
health care and accessibility in ways that 
are uniquely suited to the company’s 
strengths. 
  Highlights the benefits of ICT (information  
communications technology) to help 
customers reduce environmental impacts.
  An increased focus on CR (Corporate 
Responsibility) performance compared 
with previous reports; states what actions 
have been taken within focus areas and 
provides some forward-looking state -
ments and future direction.
  Information about who manages CR 
and their role in managing key CR issues.
 weaknesses/ recommendations
  Limited coverage of CR governance and  
management systems. 
  Accountability is a theme that comes 
through in the report, and it would  
be a stronger communication with  
additional details. 
  Additional details would be helpful on 
the role of Verizon’s CR Council and how 
CR priorities are selected.
   Very little discussion of stakeholder 
engagement and how that has influenced 
goals, objectives and company behavior.
  Inclusion of more external perspectives 
would help reinforce the credibility of 
the report.  Verizon’s 2007 Corporate Responsibility 
Report, Doing the Work, was reviewed  
in 2008 by Senior Advisor Guy Morgan  
at London-based AccountAbility and  
Raj Sapru, manager of Advisory Services  
for Business for Social Responsibility  
in San Francisco. 
analysis of  
our 2007  
Cor Porate 
resPonsibility 
rePortraj sapru, reviewerseeking in DePen Dent reView (COnTInuED)  Verizon is clearly a leader in its industry 
and works closely with certain groups and 
individuals.
  Highlighting what some of these groups 
and individuals think about Verizon’s work, 
or about business and public policy more 
generally, could be a powerful means to 
bring stakeholders’ perspectives more 
obviously into the report.
  While there have been some notable  
successes in terms of Verizon’s CR efforts 
over the past year, the report does not 
overtly detail any failures or issues which 
were not addressed. Consequently, the  
report falls down on its level of transparency.
  Demonstrating how Verizon maintains a 
competitive edge through its CR actions  
in a more overt manner is also something 
to consider in future reports. 
  Although the importance of alignment  
with CR to strategy is articulated, the 
reader does not come away…with a 
full appreciation for how Verizon is…
implementing a consistent approach 
throughout its business.  Included in this report are new sections 
that present some of the business challenges 
Verizon is facing on the digital frontier  
(see page 18).
  Also new to this report is a range of outside 
perspectives on our performance as a 
good corporate citizen (see page 14). 
  Verizon’s Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer Ivan Seidenberg devotes a portion 
of his letter (see page 2) to the way Verizon 
manages its corporate responsibility 
initiatives. guy m organ, r eviewer action w e’ve t akenseeking in DePen Dent reView (COnTInuED)16 / 17Doing the work 
that keeps us 
focused on the 
challengesToday’s wireless devices are not  
so much phones as they are  
omnibus connections  — a 
primary link to communications, 
computing and entertainment.18 / 19wireless safety
As mobile phone use has increased and its 
benefits have multiplied, questions arise about 
related health and safety issues. Verizon’s goal is  
to lead the industry in responding to safety  
concerns regarding wireless services and devices.  
We are implementing best practices and encour -
aging others to follow.
safe Driving
The National Safety Council launched a campaign 
in early 2009 urging motorists to stop using cell 
phones and messaging devices while driving. 
The group is also encouraging states to enact 
laws that would ban the behavior entirely, citing 
research that suggests using a cell phone while 
driving significantly increases the risk of being 
involved in a crash. Verizon was the first wireless carrier to break 
with other firms in the industry to support laws  
requiring hands-free devices for people who 
use cell phones while driving. 
We advise our customers: “Safe driving is your 
responsibility, and it should always be your  
first priority. For your well-being and the  
well-being of those around you, you should 
consider turning your phone off and allowing 
calls to go to voice mail while you are driving. ” 
For more information, go to aboutus.vzw.com/  
wirelessissues/driving.html. Cell Phones and rf energy
Wireless phones emit radio frequency (RF) 
energy during use. The health effects of RF  
energy have been the subject of research 
around the world for many years. 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has said, 
“The scientific community at large…believes 
that the weight of scientific evidence does  
not show an association between exposure  
to RF energy from cell phones and adverse 
health outcomes. Still the scientific community 
does recommend conducting additional research 
to address gaps in knowledge ( www.fda.gov/
cdrh/wireless/research.html ). ” 
The National Cancer Institute (NCI) concurs, 
saying that concerns about the potential  
health effects of using cellular phones  
“ …and specifically the suggestion that using  
a cell phone may increase a person’s risk of 
developing brain cancer, are not supported  
by a growing body of research on the subject. ” 
The NCI’s review of the research is available at  
www.cancer.gov/ncicancerbulletin/NCI_  
Cancer_Bulletin_092308/page7 . 
Verizon continues to examine new research  
as it is issued and regularly provides updated 
information at aboutus.vzw.com/wirelessissues/  
radioEmissions.html. 
Additional information on avoiding potential 
hearing loss and using cell phones around  
implantable medical devices is available  
at aboutus.vzw.com/wirelessissues/  
companyProfile.html. environmental impact
The breakneck pace of innovation in wireless  
communications means people are buying  
and discarding lots of cell phones. 
Verizon Wireless collects no-longer-used cell 
phones, batteries and accessories from any 
wireless service provider in any condition 
through its long-standing HopeLine® program 
(verizonwireless.com/hopeline ). Phones that  
can be refurbished are sold for reuse, and those 
without value are disposed of in an environ -
mentally sound way. 
Proceeds from the HopeLine program are used 
to provide wireless phones and cash grants  
to shelters and nonprofit organizations that 
support domestic violence awareness and 
prevention. 
Verizon’s goal is to become “best in class” when  
it comes to managing the environmental  
impact of wireless devices from manufacture 
and use through disposal.
we advise our customers:  
“safe D riVing  is your 
responsibility, and it should 
always be your first priority.  
for your well-being and the 
well-being of those around  
you, you should consider  
turning your phone off and 
allowing calls to go to voice 
mail while you are driving.”20 / 21Helping people access the content they want, 
avoid the content they don’t want, and stay 
safe online are among the biggest challenges 
confronting leaders of the digital revolution. 
Verizon took major steps to address these  
issues in 2008, marshaling the resources of  
our business groups to issue new content  
policy guidelines and to forge a new Internet 
safety presence.
new Content guidelines
In mid-2008, we issued a new “Content  
Policy for Verizon Networks” ( verizon.com/
contentpolicy ) covering our TV, wireless and 
Internet services, as well as user-generated 
content and advertising. 
The revised policies are grounded in principles 
that focus on customer choice, privacy and safety:  Verizon believes in empowering customers  
to make informed choices about the  
content they seek to access by providing 
them with available ratings information  
and parental controls. 
  Verizon is committed to helping our customers 
make informed decisions about the content 
they want to access over Verizon’s network and 
will provide content management tools, as well 
as access to educational materials and other 
resources to assist parents and other users in 
identifying content they deem appropriate.
  Verizon respects freedom of expression and 
our customers’ ability to freely access and  
disseminate lawful content of their choosing  
in a manner that respects others’ use of the 
network and that complies with the law.  
Verizon supports sound industry practices  helPing PeoPle aCCess an D monitor Content 
Verizon provides customers 
with parental controls (for 
internet, cell phones and 
FiOS TV) that allow parents 
to control what content is 
available to members of  
their family.for safeguarding children, intellectual property 
rights and our customers’ privacy and security.
  Verizon exercises broad discretion over our 
choice of brands and companies that advertise 
on our platforms. In selecting advertising 
partners and content, Verizon takes into account 
our corporate values, as well as the values of 
our business partners and customers.
We will use these guidelines to make decisions 
about delivering content and advertising that  
are consistent with our values, and to help make 
our customers’ experiences with our services 
more enjoyable.
internet safety
As a network provider Verizon provides access 
to the Internet and, through it, to services and 
content that the company does not own or 
control. In view of that, Verizon believes that 
the first priority for providers is the personal 
safety of consumers.
Our efforts to promote Internet safety are 
focused in two areas: 1) providing the best 
network tools available to ensure security, 
and 2) to informing people — especially 
parents — how to make safer choices to 
protect their families’ privacy, guard against 
cybercrime and fight abuse.
Verizon was one of the first major Internet 
Service Providers to develop a security product 
(“Protect. Detect. Connect”) which offers a 
range of tools and services — including firewall 
and anti-spam, anti-virus/spyware software — 
to safeguard personal information and PCs. 
In 2008, we began offering a free Parental 
Controls service via Verizon Online. The service 
enables customers to identify Web sites they 
believe are inappropriate and to schedule 
when Internet access is available. All elements 
of the program, which also includes free tools 
to help parents protect their children while on a cell phone or watching TV, are accessible 
from a new, single Verizon Web site  
(verizon.net/parentalcontrol ). 
 
We have also been actively promoting Internet 
safety in our communities. In late 2006 Verizon 
began a series of town hall-style events across 
the country to give parents and their kids a 
forum to get information and ask questions. 
Joining us in these events have been top state 
and civic leaders, members of law enforcement, 
educators and Internet experts. 
Events have been held in Alabama, Delaware, 
Florida, Georgia, Maryland, New Hampshire, 
New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Tennessee 
and West Virginia. Participants have included 
Governors John H. Lynch of New Hampshire, 
Joe Manchin of West Virginia, Sonny Perdue  
of Georgia and Bob Riley of Alabama. 
We feel a strong responsibility to help ensure  
a safer, more enjoyable Internet and to advance 
an Internet ethic of respect for, and account -
ability to, others. verizon has been actively 
Promoting i nternet 
safety  in our communities 
with a series of town hall-
style events to give parents 
and their kids a forum to get 
information and ask questions. 
22 / 23america’s most t rusted Companies  
for Privacy
Verizon is among the top U.S. companies most 
trusted by consumers to protect customer 
privacy, according to a new study.
A 2008 survey by the Ponemon Institute and 
TRUST e asked nearly 6,500 adult U.S. consumers  
which companies they thought were most 
trustworthy and which did the best job  
safeguarding personal information. 
Verizon scored in the top 20 overall (ranking 
No. 17) for the first time and was ranked highest 
among communications firms. TRUSTe, which 
has also certified Verizon’s Web privacy practices 
(verizon.com/privacy ), has conducted this  
survey annually since 2004. 
earl y in 2009, verizon expanded 
the scope of our online safety 
efforts with a forum on   
internet safety issues   
faced by  senior Citizens.  
the university of south florida  —  
sarasota manatee received a  
Verizon foun Dation 
grant  for outreach to  
seniors on internet safety.
Attendees were welcomed by 
Dr. Judy Genshaft, President of 
the University of South Florida 
(left). Speakers included Florida 
Attorney General Bill McCollum, 
local law enforcement and 
Verizon Southeast President 
Michelle Robinson. top 20 for privacy, 2008
1 American Express  
2 eBay  
3 IBM  
4 Amazon  
5  Johnson & Johnson 
6  Hewlett Packard  
6  U.S. Postal Service 
7  Procter & Gamble 
8 Apple   
9 Nationwide  
10  Charles Schwab 
11 USAA  12 Intuit
13 WebMD
14 Yahoo! 
15 Facebook
16 Disney
16 AOL
17 Verizon
18 FedEx
19 US Bank
20 Dell
20 eLoan
Ponemon Institute and TRUSTe, 2008As broadband applications grow in sophistica -
tion and people live more of their lives online, 
consumers are paying close attention to making 
sure their privacy is protected when they go  
on the Internet. 
That attention intensified in 2008 with debates 
in Washington, D.C., about a practice common 
to the Web world but largely invisible to con -
sumers: the routine collection of consumers’ 
Web-surfing data by companies that use it to 
deliver advertising to desktops. 
The practice is known as “behavioral advertising. ” 
Consumers and policymakers asked Verizon, 
advertisers, Web site operators and other 
Internet companies to learn more about the 
information that is collected online and how 
consumers may control use of that information.
Protecting customers’ privacy  — and respecting  
their preferences when it comes to use of their  
personal data  — has been a Verizon hallmark. 
To address the specific concerns about behavorial 
advertising, Tom Tauke, Verizon executive vice 
president for Public Affairs, Policy and Commu -
nications, explained Verizon’s approach at a 
Senate hearing (see newscenter.verizon.com/
press-releases/verizon/2008/verizon-calls-for-
industry.html ). 
“From the perspective of consumers, it makes 
no difference what technology is used to do 
behavioral advertising, or if it is done by com -
panies providing their browser, their search  
engine, their access, or any other online service, ”  
Tauke said at the hearing. All online players 
should protect the privacy of online users…
and embrace policies that put consumers in 
control of their online experience. ”
He called upon all online companies to embrace 
several broad principles related to the tracking of 
customer behavior online:  Transparency: Provide conspicuous, clearly  
explained disclosure to consumers; 
  Meaningful consent: Empower consumers  
to easily make an affirmative choice before  
a company captures Internet usage data for  
advertising purposes; and 
  Consumer control: Create simple and easy  
methods for consumers to change their 
preferences.
online aDVertising
“ all online players should  
Prote Ct the PriV aCy  
of online users and embrace  
policies that  Put Consumers  
in Control of their online  
experience.”24 / 25Doing the work 
that applies our 
energy to society’ s 
big issuesVerizon teams such as these 
in New Jersey, Texas and 
Virginia can now meet  
face-to-face  — with no 
airport security delays and 
zero jet-engine emissions.
With state-of-the-art equip -
ment from partners including 
Cisco and Tandberg, Verizon 
now uses TelePresence to 
connect 15 Verizon locations 
in the U.S. and abroad.
It’s the “green” business trip  
 — over Verizon Business’ 
advanced, global IP network.26 / 27enVironment
Chuck Graff and Todd Talbot didn’t set out to 
change the world. The two engineers in our  
Network Operations group just wanted to 
make Verizon’s telecommunications equip -
ment more energy efficient and lower the 
company’s energy costs. 
The issue was heat. Our telecommunications 
equipment generates a lot of it, and nearly  
$1 billion a year — about 50 percent of our  
total energy costs  — goes toward cooling that 
equipment. 
Rather than wait for an international group to 
come up with standards, Graff and Talbot took 
it upon themselves to start from scratch and write energy-consumption standards and a 
measurement process for new telecommuni -
cations-related equipment — something that 
had never been done before in our industry 
anywhere in the world.
Our new standards  — much like the standardized 
ENERGY STAR® efficiency levels set by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency for household 
appliances — went into effect on January 1, 2009. 
As a result, much of the new network equipment 
purchased by Verizon is now 20 percent more 
energy efficient. That significantly reduces 
greenhouse gas emissions and saves millions 
of dollars in energy costs.Chuck Graff (left) and 
Todd Talbot in Verizon’s 
electronic equipment 
test facilities in Baltimore, 
Maryland.“Being green is more than a corporate initiative, ” 
Graff said. “It was too important in terms of the 
environment and the cost not to do it. ”
Graff and Talbot helped create a ripple effect 
that will benefit generations to come. And, 
as vendors build equipment to meet our new 
standards, the greater environmental impact 
will be felt when other communications  
companies purchase the energy-efficient 
equipment as well.
it’s our responsibility
Environmental stewardship is deeply ingrained 
in our heritage. It manifests itself in our corporate  
commitment to be a respectful, responsible and 
positive influence on the environment in which 
we operate   — especially because our impact 
on the environment is significant.
Verizon has the second-largest private fleet  
of vehicles in the United States, which uses  
59 million gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel  
annually. We occupy more than 30,000 facilities 
around the world, and we consume more than 
9 billion kilowatt hours of electricity.
Every part of Verizon is engaged in the effort  
to reduce our environmental impact and  
become more efficient — from installing energy-  
management software for employees’ PCs, to 
finding ways to reduce the time our vehicles 
are left idling. The savings on the vehicle idling 
initiative reached 1 million gallons of fuel in 
2008. The reduction in carbon emissions from 
this program is equivalent to removing 1,600 
cars from the highway.  Verizon’s environmental policies  
and customer-facing initiatives 
earned Frost & Sullivan’s 2008  
Green Excellence of the Y ear Award.
  In 2007, Verizon was named a member 
of the EPA WasteWise Hall of Fame 
for its record of achievement: Partner 
of the Y ear (1998, 2001, 2005, 2006), 
Program Champion (1997, 1999, 2000, 
2002), Honorable Mention (2003). 
  EPA Energy Stars were awarded to 
Verizon Telecom’s fuel-cell powered 
switching center in Garden City,  
new Y ork, and Verizon Wireless stores  
in Toledo and Omaha — the first in  
the wireless industry.
  Verizon’s wildlife habitat restoration  
project at our operations center in 
Basking Ridge, n ew Jersey, corporate 
campus was awarded the Governor’s 
Environmental Excellence Award.
  Verizon facilities in n ew Jersey,  
Washington state and Massachusetts 
have been named “Best Workplaces 
for Commuters” by the EPA and u .S.  
Department of Transportation.
  COMPUTERWORLD  magazine named 
Verizon Wireless one of 2008’s Top  
12 Green IT vendors.recognized for B eing green
being green is more than 
a CorPorate initiati Ve. 
it was too important in terms of 
the environment and the cost 
not to do it.  ”“
28 / 29The Network Effect
As we use our technologies to help reduce 
energy consumption, we’re also engaging our 
customers in a campaign that asks them to join 
us as we seek the common goal of improving 
the environment.
In 2008, Verizon began to unify all of our existing 
and future environmental initiatives. The result is 
a strategy built on connecting families, friends, 
businesses and ideas through our network. 
We call this the “The Network Effect,  ”   in reference  
to the substantial impact that our millions 
of customers and employees, along with our 
operations and technology, can have on the 
environment today and in the years to come.
For instance, we’re encouraging our customers 
and employees to switch to paperless billing, 
and to teleconference instead of travel. And 
we’re highlighting the environmental benefits 
of using broadband in everyday tasks, from 
e-commerce to telecommuting. 
Verizon’s TelePresence service, for instance,  
creates a live, face-to-face meeting experience  
via life-size images, ultra HD video, and three 
65-inch flat-panel displays in a specially  
designed room. We now have 15 TelePresence 
systems in company locations in the U.S.,  
and abroad (see photo, page 27).
It’s not the entire answer to a greener planet, 
but it’s part of the solution.
energy efficiency via broadband 
At first glance, broadband and the environment 
might not seem to have much in common, but 
the speed and versatility that broadband brings 
to the Internet offers numerous ways users can 
reduce their carbon footprint  — and make their 
lives easier, too. 
Our industry and the larger information commu -
nications technology industry account for only 
about 2 percent of global CO2 emissions, but our 
wireline and wireless broadband technologies are providing solutions that can greatly reduce 
the 98 percent contributed by other industries 
and consumers.
Every user can be more energy efficient simply 
by taking advantage of the speed and power  
of Verizon’s broadband — from the shopper 
buying items online instead of visiting a store  
to businesses conducting their meetings via 
video teleconferencing. Here are some addi -
tional examples: 
  If 50 percent of the 2.5 billion DVDs and VHS 
tapes rented per year were delivered via Video 
on Demand — a service we offer via FiOS TV —  
the reduction in energy would be equal to 
the annual electricity consumption of about 
200,000 households.
  Higher broadband speeds now allow workers 
to have a real virtual presence from home, 
and that translates to a savings of 62 hours 
in commuting time, $1,200 in commuting 
costs and 1,700 pounds of CO2 emissions not 
dispersed into the environment per worker.
  Broadband allows Verizon Business to market 
TelePresence products and services, which 
helps to lower costs and connect employees 
in distant locations. Widespread telecon -
ferencing could eliminate 10% of all flights, 
savin 200 million tons of CO2 emissions.
  Broadband and the application of informa -
tion and communication technology (ICT) 
brings the power of the network to the trans -
mission, distribution and the use of electricity, 
creating “smart grids” that will save consumers 
money and reduce emissions.
Preserving the environment by engaging in 
“green” initiatives is important to consumers,  
businesses and governments. Verizon is a 
strong contributor to these efforts, and we 
will continue to explore how greater use of 
broadband can reduce energy consumption 
and create a greener, cleaner world.verizon B road Band helps you B e green, too
Recent studies have shown how broadband  
usage and Information Communications Tech -
nology (ICT) can have a huge environmental 
impact by reducing energy consumption and 
greenhouse gas emissions.
A n ovember 2008 report by GeSI, the Global  
e-Sustainability Initiative, estimates that ICT  
can reduce emissions in the u .S. by up to  
22 percent by 2020 through environmentally 
friendly practices such as smart logistics, smart 
buildings, a smart power grid and reducing 
travel through videoconferencing and telework.
A 2007 American Consumer Institute (ACI) 
study found major reductions are possible  
over 10 years:  Telecommuting reduces office space and car 
commutes, saving 588 million tons of emissions;
  Widespread teleconferencing could eliminate 
one-tenth of all flights, saving 200 million tons;
  E-commerce will reduce warehousing and long- 
distance shipping, saving 206 million tons; and
  Online sale and distribution of digital goods 
such as music, books, newspapers and movies 
reduces emissions by another 67 million tons.
The GeSI and ACI studies show how widespread 
adoption of high-speed Internet service could 
cut up to 36 percent of u .S. oil imports each year 
and eliminate a billion tons of greenhouse gas 
emissions in 10 years.Since reintroducing native 
plant varieties, reducing 
both the size of lawns 
and the use of chemical 
pesticides and fertilizers on 
the grounds of our corpo -
rate operations center in 
Basking Ridge, New Jersey, 
we have seen the return of 
several rare native species 
of plants and animals. 
30 / 31Information technology has revolutionized  
the relationship between buyers and sellers. 
Banks use ATMs and networked computers  
to give us safe, private, anytime access to our 
financial records and resources. Retailers have 
made us so comfortable buying over the  
Web that we racked up nearly $150 billion in 
online purchases last year  — a five-fold increase 
since 2001. 
What the electronic marketplace makes possible  
 — personalization, 24x7 convenience, control 
and transparency — is what we’ve come to 
expect in nearly every aspect of life.Everywhere, that is, except health care. 
While the American health care system is  
without peer in many important ways, deliv -
ering it to people is becoming increasingly 
expensive, inefficient and, as a result, beyond 
the reach of millions. 
The strain this brings to families also falls on 
businesses. Verizon alone provides health  
insurance for 835,000 employees, retirees and  
family members at a cost approaching $4 billion 
a year. With more Americans dropping out  
of the system  — 45 million by some estimates  —  
employee-sponsored health plans end up  
subsidizing those who fall through the cracks. health C are
Physicians at Ventura County 
Medical Center in California are 
using digital-imaging equipment 
and a mobile mammography van 
funded in part by the Verizon 
Foundation to extend their reach 
to women in underserved areas.From Verizon’s perspective, health care delivery  
needs a new business model — one that puts 
consumers in the center and uses the power  
of the market to lower costs, improve quality, 
create more choices and expand accessibility.
Verizon’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Ivan Seidenberg has personally spearheaded 
Verizon’s advocacy on this issue for nearly a 
decade. He is leading the Business Roundtable’s 
Consumer Health and Retirement Initiative, 
which played an important role in advocat -
ing for the funding of health care information 
technology initiatives in the American Recovery 
and Reinvestment Act of 2009 that was enacted 
in February 2009.
The Business Roundtable’s plan for comprehen -
sive health care reform consists of four parts:
  Creating greater consumer value and efficiency. 
Consumers need more transparency and 
wide distribution of information about the 
cost, quality and effectiveness of the health 
care services they purchase. As it is, the  
current system pays for activity, not outcomes. 
  Providing the most affordable health insurance  
options for all Americans. Competition and 
innovation can be powerful weapons in this 
market. An open, all-inclusive market for 
health insurance to replace the current state-
based system would encourage new entrants 
and give consumers the power to shop for 
the policy that suits them best.
  Placing an obligation on all Americans to have 
health insurance coverage either through their  
employer or the private market. Some 45 million  
Americans are not covered today, which precludes 
a one-size-fits-all solution. We need a competitive  
system that provides affordable options and  
encourages insurers to innovate around the 
needs of consumers and their families.The Verizon Foundation invests in projects  
that use technology to help health care 
providers increase their efficiency,  
effectiveness and reach. For example:
Grady Memorial Hospital Foundation —  
Electronic Medical Records 
A Verizon Foundation grant is helping  
the Grady Memorial Hospital in Ohio 
link five hospital-owned primary and 
specialty care physician offices with an 
Electronic Medical Records system. The 
system enables data to be transferred 
electronically between departments  
in the hospital  — so that test results will 
automatically be added to physician 
office records, and physicians in various 
departments are able to access informa -
tion more quickly. 
The John Hopkins Hospital — Remote  
Presence Robots  
This pilot project allows doctors at Johns 
Hopkins to provide quick consultations  
to emergency room patients from remote 
locations. The “robot” in this case is a 
sophisticated computer and television 
screen that allows doctors, patients and 
staff to see and speak with one another. 
Doctors are also able to clearly view test 
results, x-rays and other results remotely, 
thus reducing wait time in the ER.
university of the Pacific — Tele-Dentistry
Patients in underserved areas in Central  
California are attended by community-
based oral health professionals who 
conduct assessments and then forward  
electronic records to offsite dental offices  
or clinic-based dentists. This allows 
dentists to remotely diagnose patients 
and develop treatment plans. If complex 
treatment is necessary, an appointment 
with a dentist is made and records are 
transferred. Bringing i nformation 
technology to health care32 / 33  verizon is a long-standing advocate for  
using technology to improve a merica’s 
health care system 
  We were a founding member of the Bridges to Excellence and  
Leapfrog programs, which reward providers and hospitals for  
quality care and health information technology implementation.
  Verizon’s Ivan Seidenberg was also a member of the Federal 
Commission on Systemic Interoperability, a group of medical, 
insurance, governmental, technological and corporate leaders 
tasked by Congress to develop recommendations and a time -
line for the adoption of privacy-protected systems of electronic 
health information.
  In 2006, Verizon committed itself to the four goals set by former 
Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt to improve 
health care quality and 
reduce costs through 
increased use of technology 
and providing more infor-
mation to consumers.
  Verizon joined several  
groups representing  
patients, health care  
providers and employers  
to form Health IT n ow! — 
a coalition to promote  
the rapid deployment of 
information technology in 
the health care industry.
  We are among the corporate leaders in addressing the health 
care disparities among ethnic minorities. Verizon Benefits  
Manager Audrietta Izlar chairs the Disparities Advisory Board  
of the national Business Group on Health, in partnership with  
the Department of Health and Human Services Office on Minority 
Health. The board’s goal is to reduce the disparities in care  
and outcomes by improving employers’ awareness of the gaps 
and changing employers’ health care purchasing strategies.   Offering assistance to uninsured, low-income  
families so they can meet that obligation for  
coverage. For some families, more help will be 
needed. Targeted subsidies would be funded 
from the cost savings generated by a more 
competitive, efficient system.
In our view, however, the first step in redesigning 
the health care delivery model is infusing that 
market with information technology. Up to this 
point, the health care field has seen a woeful 
rate of adoption of IT tools. 
In the same way that an online clothing store 
knows what color sweater you ordered online 
for your uncle last Christmas, doctors and hos -
pitals should be able to access our up-to-date 
health records — from anywhere, at anytime. 
Likewise, consumers should be able to learn 
about the quality of their surgeon or hospital 
as easily as they can search online to check out 
references for an auto mechanic or local repair 
shop. 
When it comes to data security and privacy, 
Health IT offers significant improvements.  
Under the current paper-based systems, many 
can open a file cabinet, take out sensitive  
patient information, even copy and distribute 
it, then return the papers without detection. 
Health IT would establish a safe firewall around 
patient data, requiring passwords and permis -
sion to gain access and leave an audit trail of 
who accessed the data, when and why. That is 
why we believe that there should be uniform 
security standards protecting consumers’  
private health information. 
The health care industry has failed to capitalize 
on the productivity revolution that technology 
has brought to the communications industry 
and every other sector of the economy. 
A modern health information technology infra -
structure could significantly reduce costs while 
creating hundreds of thousands of new jobs. 
Analysis by the Information Technology and 
Innovation Foundation found that a $10 billion 
investment in health care IT could create more 
than 200,000 jobs. 
What’s more, a heavy injection of IT into the 
health care system has been shown to improve 
efficiency by $165 billion a year and lead to  
additional benefits:
  Better access to better care, especially in rural, 
isolated or underserved areas, or for elderly  
or disabled patients unable to travel.
  Access to a common set of medical history and 
data, ensuring that health care professionals 
have the latest and most accurate information 
about their patients.
  The ability for people who live far from their  
elderly parents to remotely monitor their 
parents’ care and prescriptions and consult 
with physicians and caregivers regardless of 
their location.
  Electronic transmissions of prescriptions would 
provide greater accuracy than hand-written 
ones and would allow physicians to monitor 
refills and makes refills easier for patients.We are also working in partnership with the  
Communications Workers of America (CWA) 
and the International Brotherhood of Electrical 
Workers (IBEW) on health care reform with  
the following goals: assure affordable, quality  
care for all Americans, control costs, share 
responsibility and improve quality. A board 
committee of Verizon, CWA and IBEW execu -
tives meets regularly to formulate plans on 
achieving those goals.
As part of our membership in the Business 
Roundtable, Verizon is a partner in the “Divided 
We Fail” group that advocates for health care 
reform. Other members of that group include 
the AARP , the National Federation of Indepen -
dent Businesses and the Service Employees 
International Union. 
Our experience tells us that it will clearly take 
a broad coalition of interests to achieve the 
kind of systemic reform that is needed. We are 
convinced, however, that true reform of the 
health care system lies in the same principles 
that have driven our economy in the past:  
competition, innovation, choice and a market 
that serves everyone. We intend to keep  
working at it until there is a solution.34 / 35Doing the work 
that delivers 
measurable  
resultsMike Cole, a Verizon Fiber 
Network Field Technician 
in Camarillo, California, 
completes a residential 
installation of FiOS TV and 
FiOS Internet.36 / 37Partnering with Communities
overview
Verizon’s principal contribution to the well-being 
of our communities is our networks — broadband, 
mobile, and global IP . We continue our strong 
record of investing to make our networks — and 
the services and applications they make possible 
— available to as many people as possible. 
Verizon’s impact on communities is felt in all 
sorts of ways: as a major employer, taxpayer 
and investor that is stimulating growth 
and innovation, and as a corporate citizen 
committed to addressing social issues and 
improving the quality of life. Verizon’s commitment to our communities and  
stakeholders has remained steady — in tough  
economic times as well as in prosperous times. 
Our philanthropy concentrates on improving 
education and literacy, protecting family 
safety and health, and encouraging our 
employees to volunteer for the things they 
love to do in their communities. We are 
devoted to helping solve the problem of 
domestic violence, and we’re working to 
inform customers how to make safer choices 
when they go online.
employee v olunteer h ours
608,000
2008 2006565,000 485,000 
2007  education & literacy  
Verizon’s signature philanthropic program is  
Thinkfinity.org, a Web site with free lesson plans 
and interactive learning materials for teachers, 
parents and students. Improving literacy is a pri -
ority for us because of the enormous impact it 
has on education and economic development. 
  Verizon Volunteers  
Verizon’s employees and retirees support 
thousands of causes in neighborhoods 
across the country. In 2008 they personally 
donated $13.4 million to more than 15,500 
nonprofits and, together with the compa -
ny’s matching funds, raised more than  
$26 million in combined contributions.
  Civic & Community support  
Our investments in this area support com -
munity and economic development, neigh -
borhood and community-based groups, and 
cultural entities like museums, art councils 
and heritage foundations.  Domestic Violence Prevention  
Another signature program, Hopeline,  
supports local and national organizations 
that help end domestic violence, provide 
immediate safety and relief to survivors,  
and then help them move into the 
workplace and become independent. 
    health Care and a ccessibility  
The Verizon Foundation invests in projects 
that put innovative technology to work to 
provide better health care services and 
information to underserved people, diverse 
age groups and people with disabilities. 
   internet safety  
We have a responsibility to educate and 
empower people to use technology and 
to keep their information safe and secure 
when online. We support efforts that teach 
responsible, safe use of the Internet and 
other digital media. Domestic Violence Prevention summit
The Verizon Foundation hosted the third 
annual National Domestic Violence Summit in 
September 2008 in conjunction with its national 
partners: the National Network to End Domestic 
Violence, the National Domestic Violence Hotline 
and the National Teen Dating Abuse Helpline.
Experts gathered in San Francisco to talk about 
domestic violence in a digital environment and 
the abuses and positive uses of technology. A 
portion of the summit was devoted to successful 
intervention strategies and technology solutions. 
first-ever Certification 
Rutgers University’s School of Social Work 
received a $200,000 grant from the Verizon 
Foundation in June 2008 to begin a first-of-  
its-kind certification program for social workers 
and other professionals who assist victims of 
domestic violence.
The grant will establish the Violence Against 
Women Continuing Education Program where 
participants will be able to earn several levels 
of certification. As part of the announcement, Verizon also 
awarded the first-ever HopeLine Scholarships 
to six Rutgers students. The scholarships will 
be awarded annually to graduate students 
who are enrolled in the university’s Master of 
Social Work specialization program on violence 
against women and children.
a safety net for Victims
The Internet, GPS, mobile devices and e-mail 
all have the potential to help victims of domestic 
violence find support — or harm them by  
allowing perpetrators to track them down. 
The National Network to End Domestic Violence 
is making sure technology works in favor of 
victims by creating a training program —  
Safety Net — aimed at educating domestic 
violence victims and their advocates on  
how to use technology to find safety  
(verizonfoundation.org/core/nndev.shtml).  
The program is funded by a grant from the 
Verizon Foundation. supporting d omestic v iolence p revention and awarenessvolunteer s potlight: s herrill m oss
It's a rare organization whose primary goal is 
to become obsolete.  Yet that's the goal s herrill 
moss and 11 other men and women have set for 
themselves as the board of directors of the Women's 
Resource Center to End Domestic Violence.
It's been a little more than six years since 
sherrill, a senior product manager for Verizon 
Business, first became involved with the 
Atlanta-based Women's Resource Center. In that time, she has become a passionate advocate 
for the Center, helping it grow through her efforts on 
the board and working to increase recognition of its 
mission throughout the Atlanta area.
Being a Verizon employee helps s herrill make an 
impact as well, because the company matches her 
annual $1,000 donation to the Center. she also 
volunteers enough hours to qualify for an additional 
$750 donation to the Center from Verizon.
38 / 39 key statistics  2007 2008
 v isitors  19,919,000  24,893,500 
 v isits  37,349,000 47,495,000 
 e ducators trained  8,456 28,023 
 schools*  1,080 2,822 
 title 1 s chools*  360 1,092 
 * Staffed with Thinkfinity.org-trained educators. 
exploring the Digital nation
The Verizon Foundation is providing the major 
funding for a landmark project by the PBS 
series FRONTLINE that addresses the risks  
and possibilities presented by the new digital  
culture we all inhabit. 
The project, “Digital Nation — Life on the Virtual 
Frontier, ” includes an interactive Web site, safety  
education curriculum created by PBS and a  
one-hour documentary scheduled to air in 2010. 
The Digital Nation Web site, ( pbs.org/frontline/
digitalnation) , includes monthly topics that focus 
on education and technology, online privacy, 
digital worlds and online games and digital 
media in the workplace. 
A companion Verizon Web site, ( verizonnational 
media.com/familycenter) , is linked to Digital 
Nation to provide visitors with insight into 
Internet safety and how Verizon is caring for 
the issue. capital
investmentincome t ax  
and other  
taxes paidsalaries  
& wagespurchases 
from diverse  
suppliersdividends to  
shareholderspension and  
other r etirement 
payments 2006
 2007
 2008investing in our communities ($ in B illions)$17.1
$17.5
$17.2
$5.8
$5.9
$4.4
$14.7
$14.1
$2.7
$3.1
$3.5
$4.7
$4.8
$5.0
$5.8
$5.8
$6.0$15.2
assessing t echnology in the Classroom  
verizon’s goal is to make t hinkfinity.org  —  
our free, online resource for k -12 teachers 
and students  — the most useful and trusted 
educational resource on the internet. 
New Jersey’s St. Philips Academy will play a 
big role in that effort. The school, which is 
located in Newark and teaches K-8 students, 
has been awarded a Verizon grant to design 
and assess the impact of using Thinkfinity.org 
in the classroom. 
The evaluation will focus on the development of 
students in grades 3-5 over an 18-month period.   
The school has a modern computer lab, video- 
conferencing capabilities and SMART boards 
that enable teachers to incorporate technology 
into every aspect of the school’s curriculum.  
The project will include a series of collaborative 
workshops with students, parents and faculty. All 
teachers will be certified in using Thinkfinity.org.  
thinkfinity.org — the B est education resource on the neteducation and l iteracy   $35.7
volunteerism  
(including matching gifts)  $14.8
civic & community support  $9.2
domestic v iolence prevention  $4.7
health care and accessi Bility $2.7
internet safety  $0.9
total philanthropic investment 2008  $68.1
key grants
  national Family Justice Center Alliance   
$1 million grant to this leading domestic  
violence prevention group to develop informa -
tion systems that will enable other agencies  
to securely share victim information and create 
electronic records.
  American Foundation for the Blind  
$1.5 million grant to fund and expand an AFB 
Web site (afb.org/seniorsite)  that will help aging 
adults with low vision. 
  American Library Association  
$1 million grant to study how gaming can 
enhance learning and literacy skills. 
  national Council of La Raza  
and the national urban League  
$2.2 million in grants over several years to 
establish an after-school program based on 
Thinkfinity.org resources and create culturally 
sensitive educational resources. 
employee giving Campaigns
  The Verizon Foundation coordinates several 
annual employee giving campaigns in 2008: 
	 •		“Shower	for	the	Shelter” 	—	$400,000	worth	
of household goods was donated for distribu -
tion to 200+ domestic violence shelters.
	 •		“Tools	for	Schools”	—	Employees 	donated	
approximately $300,000 of “back to school” 
items in 2008. 
	 •		“Season’s	Readings” 	—	More	than	130,000	
books that went to approximately 350 
nonprofit organizations and schools were 
donated by employees. international grants
  Divya Disha is an organization of homes and 
centers located in the Hyderabad area of India 
that serve as havens for children to escape 
bad family situations. A Verizon Foundation 
grant will support over 200 children who are 
living in the homes by creating a computer 
lab and an information program. 
  The Verizon Foundation recently presented 
a grant to the Neighbourhood Advice-Action 
Council (NAAC) in Hong Kong. The grant will 
support the NAAC’s Integrated Service Center 
in offering educational training to families in 
the Tung Chung community. Verizon Business 
employees who work in the area will also vol -
unteer their time to help the center. 
  A Verizon Foundation grant is supporting  
Fundación Leer’s efforts to encourage literacy  
in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The grant will 
enable dedicated “Reading Corners” to be 
established in three schools. Verizon Business 
volunteers will also be trained to support a wide 
variety of reading programs. 
  The Verizon Foundation is lending its support  
to the building of a school and its educational  
program for the Gawad Kalinga organization in 
the Philippines. The grant will help support  
construction and create a partnership between 
the school and Verizon Business employees 
who will be part of the education program. verizon f oundation 2008 p hilanthropic i nvestments ($ in millions)40 / 41 participants  expenditures   
  ($ in million s)
2006  27,000  $1 10.0
2007  29,000  $112 . 5
2008  29,100  $117.9
overview
To be successful, Verizon depends on the skills, 
values and commitment of its people. We pro -
vide competitive wages along with progressive 
health and benefit packages. We invest heavily 
in training and development and hold our -
selves to very high standards of performance.
These programs and packages are among  
the best in corporate America, but they don’t 
tell the full story of why Verizon is a great 
place to work. 
Winning companies are also places that people 
simply want to join. They want to belong to a 
firm that offers something meaningful — like 
challenging work, the opportunity to build a 
great career, the flexibility to succeed at work 
and at home, and a culture that encourages and 
respects their individuality and perspectives. 
Verizon is one of those companies.
Training & Development 
  Verizon’s total training investment for 2008 
totaled $344 million, and our employees 
dedicated 11.7 million hours to training —  
200,000 more hours than in 2007. The vast 
majority of training was in the areas of 
customer service, management development, 
and the broadband, mobile and IP segments 
of our business.better health
  In 2008, Verizon provided $3.7 billion in health 
care benefits, covering 835,000 employees, 
retirees and their dependents. Our approach 
to health care is to empower people to better 
manage their own health by putting more 
and better information at their fingertips.
   Three years ago, we introduced the Verizon 
HealthZone, an online resource for health 
information that helps employees make 
informed decisions about their health care. 
Enrollment in HealthZone totaled nearly 
28,000 by the end of 2008.
   We believe that a healthy lifestyle promotes 
productive and engaged employees, who 
are capable of meeting the challenges posed 
by busy personal and professional lives.  
 
verizon tuition a ssistance p rograms
verizon total training h ours, 2008
200711.5 million 11.7 million
2008emPowering e mPloyeesTo help promote this healthy lifestyle, Veri -
zon Wireless manages 26 on-site Health & 
Wellness Centers nationwide. Employees in 
Verizon locations without a wellness center 
have access to discounted memberships at 
more than 2,000 health clubs.
   Verizon Wireless’ Healthy Babies program for  
expectant mothers encourages pre- and 
postnatal care. For those who remain enrolled 
through delivery, the program provides incen -
tives toward lactation pumps and lactation 
consulting. More than 1,500 women enrolled 
in the program in 2008, which provided more 
than $73,000 in incentives. 
work & f amily balance
  Verizon “gets it” when it comes to the chal -
lenges our employees face in juggling the de -
mands of work and family. We accommodate 
a variety of flexible work policies — including 
telecommuting and flextime — as the needs  
of our business will allow. 
  Our work-family policies are designed to put the 
tools for managing their lives in the hands of 
our employees. For instance, Verizon employees 
logged 37,500 hours in Backup Care benefits in 
2008 — the equivalent of nearly 13 work years 
that employees would have otherwise had to 
use as vacation, personal or sick days.   Verizon’s employee assistance program, VZ-LIFE, 
provides resources for dealing with personal 
problems and challenges related to parenting 
and child care, adult care, health and wellness, 
moving and relocation, and many other issues.  
On average, employees contact VZ-LIFE by 
telephone more than 3,000 times a month and 
log on to the Web site, verizon.com/life , nearly 
50,000 times per month.
  To address the special needs of new parents, 
Verizon provides a generous Gradual Return 
to Work Program for employees returning 
from childbirth or child adoption leaves. 
Employees return to work on a reduced work 
schedule, and they maintain full and complete 
coverage for all Verizon benefits. 
  Our adoption assistance program provides up 
to $10,000 for expenses incurred during the 
adoption of a child.
   Verizon supports employees who are called 
to active military duty with one of the best 
military-leave programs anywhere. The 
company pays the difference between an 
employee’s military pay and Verizon pay for 
up to 36 months. The company also continues 
medical, dental, vision and group life insurance 
for those employees and their dependents. 2006 2007 2008verizon h ealth c are e xpenses ($ in B illions)875,000
$3.5
850,000
$3.6
835,000
$3.7 participants
  expenditures  42 / 43verizon e mployee o pinion s urvey r esults  (% favora Ble)
the company recognizes 
and respects the value  
of diversity and inclusion.i am proud to be a  
part of our company.in my workgroup, we 
conduct day-to-day  
business with integrity.my workgroup operates 
with a sense of urgency  
to deliver on our commit -
ments to customers.
Thomas Boudrow, a Verizon sales support super-
visor in marlboro, masschusetts, played a key role 
in developing the company’s Videophone Gate  —  
a technology that allows deaf customers to speak 
with Verizon representatives using American  
sign Language (AsL). His efforts recently won  
him Employee of the Year honors from CAREERS  
& the disABLED  magazine. 
Deaf customers use specially made, video-enabled 
phones to enjoy the same customer service treat -
ment that Verizon’s hearing customers do (see story 
from our 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report, 
(responsibility.verizon.com/2007/accessibility) . Not only did his work benefit our customers, but 
it created further job opportunities at Verizon  for 
videophone customer service representatives who 
are fluent in AsL. 
Boudrow, who is deaf, used his personal experience 
and technical expertise to help make Videophone 
Gate a world-class product.  
To see him in action, visit aboutus.vzw.com/  
accessibility/nationwide_faq.html. careers  & the dis aBled employee of the year82%
89%
81%
83%
74%
89%
76%
89% 2007
 2008
safety
  Verizon continued to see improvement in our safety measures in 2008. We were, however,  
saddened to have three work-related employee fatalities in 2008. 
  Any loss of life is unacceptable, and we continue to take our responsibility for employee safety  
very seriously. Across Verizon, safety performance results are routinely analyzed to identify 
areas of risks, for which targeted plans are designed and implemented. 
  Significant emphasis is also placed on increased safety training, work observations and  
communictions, with special focus on high-risk work operations.
  In 2008, we began rolling out an online enhanced, company-wide safety and environmental 
compliance system. Implementation is targeted for late 2009. 
* Of the 2008 citations, three were rescinded, one was reduced and five are pending. occupational  
injuries &  
illnesses r ate  
(per 100 employees)lost w orkday r ate 
(PER  100 EMPLOYEES )motor v ehicle 
incident r ate  
(PER  100 VEHICLES )employee  
fatalities osha   
citations* 2006    2007    20081.86
1.83
1.69
1.09
1.06
0.97
4.11
3.96
3.72
9
1
3
11
14
9*44 / 45overview
Verizon continues delivering on our principal 
environmental objectives: reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions; increase recycling rates; deploy 
new, energy-saving technologies in our opera -
tions; and make consumers and policymakers 
aware that broadband technology can signifi -
cantly reduce energy consumption and con -
serve resources.
Notably, we now require that new telecom -
munications network equipment be at least 20 
percent more energy efficient than equipment 
already in place (see story on page 34). We 
have established a series of energy efficiency 
tests and ratings to guide our suppliers in this 
effort and invited other telecommunications 
companies to adopt these standards so the 
cumulative effect can be increased.
The standards will apply to certain broadband, 
video, data-center, network and customer-
premises equipment purchased after  
January 1, 2009.Prote Cting the enVironment
energy Conservation & 
energy saving t echnology
  Our total energy reduction measures in 2008 
reduced greenhouse-gas emissions by 83,900 
metric tons.
  Technology upgrades being deployed by 
Verizon Business will eliminate the need 
for one-third of the signal regeneration 
equipment in its network. The new equipment 
is 4 times as energy efficient as the older 
equipment. The energy savings is estimated 
to be 116 million kilowatts per year or 83,300 
metric tons of greenhouse-gas emissions.
  Verizon’s Data Center Operations team is 
working with Intel and HP on new data center 
designs that save energy consumption and 
the associated costs. Verizon’s Tampa and 
Sacramento site are serving as test centers  
for various “smart cooling” installations.
  An ongoing program by Verizon’s IT group to 
install energy-efficient “thin-client” computers 
carBon intensity  (metric tons of co2 emitted per million dollars of revenue)
* Verizon began using the EPA’s eGrid factors in 2008 to calculate emissions produced from electricity consumption. For consistency, data for 2006 
and 2007 have been recalculated using the eGrid factors. eGrid factors are updated every few years to reflect the rapidly changing U.S. power industry. 
** U.S. average numbers are derived from data published by the Energy Information Administration. Data for 2008 will be available in late 2009.2006 2007 2008635.7
68.7*
631.9
66.5*
631.9**
64.4*  u.s. average    verizonin company call centers is reducing the  
associated energy usage by 30 percent. 
  Verizon conducted a successful pilot in 2008 
to install software that automatically senses 
when computers are not in use and puts 
them in “sleep” mode. Full rollout of this pro -
gram is slated for 2009. When completed, the 
measure is expected to deliver $7 million in 
annual energy savings. 
  Verizon Wireless currently uses solar panels  
at eight remote cell sites in the western United 
States. Similar systems are being tested for 
deployment at other cell sites. Another solar 
energy trial is in the planning stages.
  Verizon Business is running trials at three  
sites that use hydrogen fuel cells for backup 
power. Verizon already operates the largest 
fuel cell project in the country at its Garden 
City, New York, switching center. The seven 
cells installed there in 2005 deliver primary 
power to the center. The reduction in energy 
use is estimated to save 5,000 metric tons of 
greenhouse-gas emissions. 
  Verizon’s operations center in Basking  
Ridge, New Jersey, sits on 135 acres of grass -
land and wetlands that are natural habitats 
for several species of endangered wildlife. 
The area is also a source of water for nearby 
residents. Working with the Audubon Soci -
ety and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services, 
Verizon has launched a 10-year effort to 
protect the area’s water, plants and wildlife.co2 emissions p rofile
(thousands of metric tons)
6,271
6,220
6,051
2006 2007   2008
46 / 47climate change
  Verizon joined the California Climate  
Action Registry in 2006.
  Verizon has participated in the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (cdproject.net)  since 
2004. The project now has the largest reg -
istry of corporate greenhouse-gas emis -
sions data. In 2008, Verizon participated 
in the CDP’s supply chain initiative.  Verizon is a member of the Global  
eSustainability Initiative’s (GeSI)  
Climate Change Working Group. 
  Verizon has joined the Digital Energy 
Solutions Campaign (DESC), a coali -
tion of companies in the information 
and communications technology (ICT) 
industries. DESC’s mission is to “expand 
policymakers’ understanding of the 
roles of ICT in improving the energy  
efficiency of the u .S. economy. ”   Our HopeLine program collected more than 1 million cell phones for the second consecutive 
year, up 6 percent from 2007 (see chart and accompanying story at right).
  Verizon is a founding sponsor of Global Releaf, a group that encourages shareowners to sign-up 
for electronic communications and for customers to sign-up for paperless billing.waste r eduction & r ecycling
telecommunications 
equipment r ecycling   
(thousands of tons)
48
18.7
17.6
29
35.8
27.4
24.1
18.8
20.5
54
63
48
cell p hone  
Battery r ecycling  
(TONS)paper and  
cardBoard r ecycling  
(THOUSANDS  OF TONS)environmental 
notices 2006    2007    2008HopeLine gives consumers an environmentally 
sound way to dispose of the cell phones they 
no longer use, while providing a simple way 
to make a difference in the lives of domestic 
violence victims. 
Since 2001, HopeLine’s national phone recycling 
and reuse program has collected more than 
5.6 million phones, awarded more than $6.3 mil -
lion in cash grants to domestic violence agencies 
throughout the country, and donated more 
than 86,000 phones with more than 228 million 
minutes of free wireless service. recycling h elps f und h opeline
 2006 2007 2008
phones c ollected 909,400 1,070,000 1,129,000
phones r efur Bished 666,700 817,400 764,500
phones r ecycled 242,700 251,500 364,700
phones d onated to shelters 16,160 20,080 21,000
cash d onated from h opeline f unds  $1,272,000 $1,722,000 $1,531,000
Verizon collected 1.13 million no-longer-used 
wireless phones in 2008 through its long-running 
HopeLine program.
Through HopeLine, consumers and businesses 
can donate phones, batteries and accesso -
ries purchased from any vendor at Verizon 
Wireless stores and sponsored events across 
the country. These donations enabled Hope -
Line to award more than $1.5 million in cash 
grants — generated by the sale of refurbished 
phones — to nearly 350 domestic violence 
agencies and organizations. 
In 2008, Verizon gave nearly 21,000 refurbished 
wireless phones — along with 63 million min -
utes of service — to domestic violence agencies 
for use by victims to communicate with family, 
friends, shelter support staff and employers to 
help them rebuild their lives.
48 / 49
®overview
Verizon is leading the industry in deploying 
new network technologies. In turn, these 
technologies are creating an explosion of 
innovative new products and services that 
hold great promise for addressing broad 
social issues and meeting the unique needs  
of diverse customers.
We have staked our future on the power of 
broadband networks, and we’re investing 
more than $17 billion a year to make Verizon 
the leader in global connectivity. 
We believe these networks will be a powerful 
engine of growth and innovation, not just for 
our company, but for the whole economy as 
broadband becomes embedded ever more 
deeply in the lives of our customers and the 
business processes of global enterprises.
We are beginning to see, in fact, how digital 
media can transform education and empower 
those with disabilities, how the power of 
broadband can be tapped to save energy and 
the environment and how interactive tech -
nologies can revolutionize health care.serVi Ce & inno Vation
Investing in the Future
  Verizon has invested more than $50 billion 
in technology infrastructure over the last 
three years and more than any other U.S. 
corporation over the last five years. 
  Deployment of our high-speed, FiOS fiber 
network continues at a pace of 3 million  
new premises passed per year. 
  We are moving ahead on deploying our fourth-
generation wireless network — using LTE  
technology — which could be important in  
providing broadband service in underserved 
parts of the country.  Commercial launch is 
slated for 2010.
  Verizon Business is the only U.S.-based 
provider to be a charter member of the 
consortium building the Trans-Pacific Express 
(TPE) optical cable network that linked the U.S. 
with the Chinese mainland in 2008. The TPE 
uses the latest optical technology to meet a 
sharp increase in demand for IP , data and voice 
communications with the Asia-Pacific region.
The Economic Impact of Broadband
Broadband networks are a platform for the 
innovation and creativity that lie at the heart  
of a vibrant economy. 
capital i nvestment ($ in B illions)  
$17.1
$17.5
$17.2 2006
 2007
 2008Policies to stimulate the deployment of broad -
band in underserved areas of the U.S. could 
have dramatic and far-reaching economic effect. 
According to a 2008 study by Connected 
Nation, a 7 percent increase in broadband 
adoption could result in:
  Creation of 2.4 million jobs;
  $662 million saved per year in reduced  
health care costs;
  $6.4 million in energy savings from unneces -
sary driving and idling;
  $134 billion per year in total direct  
economic impact. 
new a ccessibility for mobile Callers
In March 2009, Verizon announced the avail -
ability of a new technology — TALKS™ for 
Verizon Wireless — that converts displayed text 
into speech for its wireless customers who are 
blind or visually impaired.
Powered by Nuance Communications, Inc., 
TALKS for Verizon Wireless uses ETI-Eloquence 
text-to-speech software, which is similar to 
other screen-reading packages on Windows® 
PC platforms. The TALKS technology, which is 
available initially on MOTO™ Q 9c smart phones, 
also supports audio feedback for writing and 
reading text messages, e-mail and notes. With TALKS, the Motorola MOTO Q 9c from 
Verizon Wireless can:
 Read the caller ID of an incoming call;
  Dial a number from the phone’s  
Contacts directory;
  Add and edit entries in the Contacts directory;
 Read and write text messages and e-mail;
  Read and write documents using  
Mobile Office;
  Use Mobile Internet Explorer to access  
the Internet; 
  Access and compose multimedia message 
service (MMS) messages; and
 Control speech volume and rate of speech
To learn more about TALKS for Verizon Wireless, 
visit verizonwireless.com/accessibility. 
Driving innovation via open networks 
In 2008, Verizon launched its Open Develop -
ment program to invigorate and benefit from 
the coming explosion of smart devices and 
machine-to-machine communications.
The concept is straightforward: the program 
provides a way for device manufacturers and 
developers to offer their projects and services  
on the Verizon Wireless network. 
We now have dozens of devices certified for 
use and lots more in the pipeline.
For LTE, which stands for Long-Term Evolution,  
our fourth-generation wireless technology, we 
are building on the Open Development program 
example by creating the LTE Innovation Center. 
The center, to be based in Waltham, Mass., will 
serve as the catalyst for development of devices, 
products or applications for LTE networks. 
The idea is to help Verizon Wireless technology 
partners quickly develop and bring to market 
new and innovative LTE-based solutions within 
the consumer electronics, machine-to-machine, 
and business products segments.Verizon Business continues 
to invest in what is now the 
largest facilities-based net -
work in the world, spanning 
six continents and reaching 
customers in more than 2,700 
cities and 150 countries.50 / 51employee p rofile  12/31/08
BY ETHNICITY  MANAGEMENT NON-MANAGEMENT TOTAL , 12/31/08 TOTAL , 12/31/07TOTAL US 
LABOR  
FORCE
American Indian/  
Native Americans366 0.6% 864 0.6% 1,230 0.6% 1,287 0.6% 0.7% 
Asian 5,512 8.7% 3,924 2.6% 9,436 4.4% 9,825 4.4% 3.6%
Native Hawaiian/  
Pacific Islander147 0.2% 548 0.4% 695 0.3% 536 0.2% 0.1%
Black 8,030 12.6% 34,521 23.0% 42,551 19.9% 44,842 20.1% 10.6%
Hispanic 3,990 6.3% 16,258 10.8% 20,248 9.5% 20,257 9.1% 10.7%
Two Races or More 739 1.2% 2,003 1.3% 2,742 1.3% 1,967 0.9% 1.6%
White 44,845 70.5% 91,825 61.2% 136,670 64.0% 144,008 64.7% 73.6%
Total u .S. 63,629 149,943 213,572 222,722
International 8,889 1,905 10,794 10,169
Total Worldwide 72,518 151,848 224,366 232,891
BY GENDER (U.S.) MANAGEMENT NON-MANAGEMENT TOTAL , 12/31/08 TOTAL , 12/31/07TOTAL US 
LABOR  
FORCE
Female 23,976 37.7% 64,381 42.9% 88,357 41.4% 93,111 41.8% 46.8%
Male 39,653 62.3% 85,562 57.1% 125,215 58.6% 129,611 58.2% 53.2%
BY GENDER  (INT’L)
MANAGEMENT NON-MANAGEMENT TOTAL , 12/31/08 TOTAL , 12/31/07TOTAL US 
LABOR  
FORCE
Female 1,852 20.8% 603 31.7% 2,455 22.7% n/a n/a n/a
Male 7,037 79.2% 1,302 68.3% 8,339 77.3% n/a n/a n/a
BY GENDER  (WORLDWIDE) MANAGEMENT NON-MANAGEMENT TOTAL , 12/31/08 TOTAL , 12/31/07TOTAL US 
LABOR  
FORCE
Total Female 25,828 64,984 90,812 n/a n/a n/a
Total Male 46,690 86,864 133,554 n/a n/a n/a2008 Consolidated Revenues  $97.4 billion
2008 Net Income, Before Special Items  $7.2 billion
2008 Capital Investment   $17.2 billion
Shareowners (AS OF 12/31/08)    2.4 million
Verizon Wireless
Customers    72.1 million*
Network coverage   Reaches 280 million Americans*
Company-owned stores and kiosks More than 2,500
Verizon Telecom
Access lines    36.2 million
Broadband connections   8.7 million
FiOS® TV customers   1.9 million
FiOS® Internet customers   2.5 million
Verizon Business 
Global IP Network presence  Serves 2,700+ cities in 150 countries  
Data centers    200+ 
Customer base    98 percent of the Fortune 500
Total Employees    224,366
* The acquisition of Alltel, completed January 9, 2009, expands Verizon Wireless’ network coverage to approximately  
290 million people and increases the company’s customers to over 80 million. 
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ), headquartered in New York, is a leader in delivering broadband and other 
wireline and wireless communication innovations to mass market, business, government and wholesale customers. 
Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, serving more than 80 million customers nationwide. 
Verizon's Wireline operations include Verizon Business, which delivers innovative and seamless business solutions to 
customers around the world, and Verizon Telecom, which brings customers the benefits of converged communications, 
information and entertainment services over the nation's most advanced fiber-optic network.  
For more information, visit www.verizon.com. financial statistics 
operating statistics (as of 12/31/08)
This report was printed on FSC-certified Neenah White environmental: 100# cover contains 100% recycled post-consumer 
waste, and 80# text which contains 100% recycled post consumer waste. 53 / 53verizon.com/responsibility
©2009 Verizon All Rights Reserved. 