Verizon 
Corporate 
Responsibility 
Report    
2006Ethics
Innovation
Empowerment
Growth
Environment
Community
Doing the work.
i Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006Doing the work.
Verizon is a big company, with big 
plans. By connecting customers  
to one another and the world, we 
increase shareowner value, improve 
the quality of our customers’ lives and create 
a more productive and dynamic society. 
Our strategies grow from our conviction that 
Verizon has a unique role to play in delivering 
the benefits of advanced communications 
technology to the marketplace. 
We believe that few companies have the 
opportunity we have to make a lasting and 
positive impact on the daily lives of custom -
ers. We also know that plans don’t make a 
company great. Performance does. Whether 
it’s laying fiber to homes or using technology  
to improve education and health care,  
customers judge Verizon not on what we  
say, but on what we do.
The bottom line is,  
we have to do the work.
In that spirit, we are pleased to share  
our 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report 
which covers our accomplishments and  
challenges in six areas:
•	 Ethics	and	Governance
•	 Service	and	Innovation
•	 Empowering	Employees
•	 Promoting	Community	Growth
•	 Protecting	the	Environment
•	 Partnering	with	CommunitiesIn our two previous reports, we laid out  
our definition of corporate responsibility  
and the strong foundation of values and 
ethical conduct that underlies our approach. 
This year, it’s about performance—more  
precisely, it’s about the actions Verizon  
employees are taking to deliver on our  
objectives in the six areas.
This report focuses on our employees, 
because in many ways we’re different from 
other companies in the Internet economy. 
Our relationship to customers isn’t just virtual, 
it’s real. Our customers don’t relate to us just 
with the click of a mouse. They come into 
our stores. They see our trucks. They talk to 
our service reps. They invite our technicians 
into their homes. They know that with more 
than 240,000 employees who live and work 
in their communities, Verizon has a vested 
interest in good schools, safe neighbor -
hoods and strong local economies.
That’s why the human dimen -
sion of business—customer service, 
ethics, values and community  
investment—is so deeply embedded 
in our culture and so profoundly 
important to our success. Having 
millions of customer relationships 
gives our work an inherently ethical dimen -
sion and makes trust the glue that binds us 
to our customers, partners and stakeholders. 
And because they embody our reputation 
for customers, it’s imperative that our people 
have the tools and the direction they need Chairman and CEO
Verizon  
CommunicationsMessage froM the ChairMan and Ceo
Photo courtesy of Pace Universityii Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006to do the right thing. This means setting 
clear objectives, measuring our progress 
and being accountable for our results—in 
corporate responsibility as in every aspect of 
our business.
Being a visible part of the community  
means that our stakeholders expect a lot from 
us. When people think about how corpora -
tions contribute to society—for better or for 
worse—they think of companies like Verizon 
that affect their daily lives. So it matters how 
we respond to the issues that are on custom -
ers’ minds, from online safety and privacy to 
global warming and more.
Living up to big expectations—our own, 
as well as our stakeholders’—is what great 
companies are all about.In this report we show what can happen 
when good ideas are married to solid execu -
tion. We share what we have accomplished 
and outline next steps. Most of all, we intro -
duce you to a few of the extraordinary Verizon 
people who do the work—turning Verizon’s 
technological and intellectual resources into 
visible results that improve people’s lives and 
make communities stronger.
Ivan Seidenberg   
An	alumnus	and	trustee	of	Pace	University	
in	New	York,	Ivan	Seidenberg	(MBA,	’81)	
regularly	visits	the	campus	and	meets	with	
students.		He	is	shown	here	with	Pace	students	Caitlin	Doherty	(BA,	’06)	and	
Andrew	Pastor	(BA,	’06).Pictured	on	Cover:
(From	left)	Rommell	Angeles,	 	
Data	Engineer	–	Verizon	Wireless;	 	
John	Marshall,	Manager-Sourcing	–	 	
Verizon	Communications	and	Deborah	
Lansdowne,	President	&	CEO	–	eKohs,	Inc;	
Vijay	Jestadi,	Senior	Analyst	Verizon	Data	Services	India;	Stephanie	Lindsay,	Fiber	
Network	Field	Technician	–	Verizon	Telecom;	
and	Brian	Williams,	Systems	Engineer	–	Verizon	Wireless.
In 2006 our emphasis was on taking 
the next step: integrating our values 
into the actual work we do every day. 
So in addition to addressing the six 
areas that make up our overall approach 
to corporate responsibility, we targeted 
several issues for special attention that 
presented both financial and social value 
for Verizon. We called them our “2006 
Corporate Responsibility Priorities”  
and they were: 
• Make our broadband products  
and services more accessible for the  
burgeoning number of disabled 
Americans and seniors, and add national 
public-interest programming to our FiOS 
TV service. On the drawing board now 
is a “big button” remote control for 
customers with physical disabilities. FiOS 
TV now offers viewers free, on-demand 
content on important contemporary 
issues (e.g., Internet safety) via Verizon 
Community Studio. 
• Better manage the environmental 
impact of our operations. One avenue we 
investigated: incorporating hybrid-elec -
tric technology into our vehicle fleet. No 
U.S. auto manufacturer produces hybrid this is Verizon’s third Corporate responsibility report. In	prior	
years	our	efforts	focused	on	establishing	a	strong	understanding	of	Verizon’s	values	
for	employees	at	all	levels	and	setting	a	clearly	defined	framework	for	translating	those	values	into	action.	
vans in this class, so we partnered with a 
hybrid-electric pioneer to create our own 
(page 28). 
• Engage the community face-to-face 
about online risks, how parents can keep 
their children safe online and how law en -
forcement agencies are working to pre -
serve a safe and more secure Internet. 
More than 400 people joined our first 
community forum in New Hampshire in 
December 2006, including the state’s 
governor and attorney general (page 12). 
• Enhance our Supplier Code of  
Conduct to promote safe working 
conditions throughout our supply chain, 
encourage suppliers to treat workers with 
respect and dignity, and foster envi -
ronmentally responsible manufacturing 
processes (page 20).
• Develop a “Corporate Responsibility 
Checklist” to review our global operations 
and gauge consistency with Verizon’s 
Commitment and Values (page 20). 
Included within each chapter are 
sections outlining in greater detail  
“what’s next” for Verizon to further  
integrate our values into business  
operations and practices.  
iii Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
2006 Corporate responsibility priorities Doing the work.    
 
Message from the Chairman  ii
2006 Corporate Responsibility Priorities  iii     
Ethics and Governance  2    
Service and Innovation  6  
Empowering Employees  14               
Promoting Community Growth  18 
Protecting the Environment   24 
Partnering with Communities  30
Awards and Recognition 34
 6  
 14  
 18  
 Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 24   Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006As	stakeholders	hold	corporations	to	ever-higher	standards	of	
conduct,	it	is	critical	that	we	maintain	a	strong	foundation	of	
trust.	One	of	the	ways	that	trust	is	realized	is	through	the	work	
of	Verizon’s	Chief	Privacy	Officer	Kathleen	Zanowic	(above).	She	is	responsible	for	implementing	policies	that	respect	and	
protect	customers’	private	information.			
Chief Privacy Officer 
Verizon  
Communications
ethiCs and go VernanCe
Privacy and security for customer data.
Transparency in financial reporting. Ethics and GovernanceEmployees need to know the rules 
and have the tools and training to 
act with integrity. Customers and 
shareowners need to see that we are re -
sponsive to their concerns and conduct 
our business in a fair and transparent 
way. And our systems need to evolve to 
address emerging issues in the dynamic 
online environment in which we operate.
In 2006 we took several steps to 
better equip our people to represent our 
values in their daily lives. 
Code of Conduct
Verizon’s Code of Conduct 
maps out employees’ respon -
sibilities for behaving ethically  
in their dealings with colleagues, cus -
tomers and stakeholders. We train and 
certify all Verizon employees to ensure 
their compliance with these standards. 
We believe this program is one of  
the most extensive and rigorous in  
corporate America. 
In 2006 we modified the code 
in several respects. We reinforced 
the connection between the Verizon 
Commitment and Values and the code’s 
provisions. We clarified the definition of 
prohibited gifts and entertainment, and 
barred employees involved in procure -
ment from accepting any such offers al -
together. We strengthened our protection 
for whistle-blowers and reinforced our 
procedures for making accurate financial 
disclosures. We extended our Code of 
Conduct to all former MCI employees who joined Verizon as a result of the 
merger of the two companies in 2006.
We also recognize that behaving re -
sponsibly often requires a broader frame 
of reference than can be expressed in 
the do’s and don’ts of a code of conduct. 
To help employees live our values and 
incorporate a corporate responsibility 
perspective in their decision-making, 
we developed a training program called 
CR 360, which we will offer to manage -
ment employees in 2007. The course is 
delivered via our online training platform 
and helps managers consider the Verizon 
values and stakeholder feedback in  
every business decision. The CR 360 
framework will help our employees  
make decisions that deliver value for 
Verizon’s shareowners and the communi -
ties we serve.
To review the Verizon Communica -
tions Code of Conduct (each Verizon 
business unit has slight variations in 
the Code of Conduct to accommodate 
different market environments), go to 
http://investor.verizon.com and select 
“Corporate Governance.”
Customer Privacy
Every day, Verizon employees have 
millions of interactions with customers 
who trust us to safeguard their confiden -
tial personal information. The security 
and privacy of customer information 
is a top priority. We have an extensive 
security regime in our networks to 
protect customer accounts, and we have a history of being proactive in taking legal 
and other actions to protect custom -
ers’ private information. Our employees 
adhere to explicit privacy principles that 
govern the appropriate use of customer 
information. The translation of those 
principles into action is implemented and 
overseen by our chief privacy officer.
This is an ongoing challenge in the 
face of ever more sophisticated schemes 
to obtain customer data. In particular, 
over the past year we have seen several 
well-publicized instances of “pretexting,” 
whereby a caller fraudulently assumes 
another person’s identity in an attempt to 
gain access to his or her calling records. 
Our	online	CR	360	training	helps	managers	
make	business	decisions	consistent	with	
our	core	values	and	with	the	interests	of	
the	communities	we	serve.	eVery day, eaCh of Verizon’s 240,000 eMployees Makes deCisions 	that	shape	
our	reputation	and	affect	our	future.	Whether	it’s	interacting	with	a	customer,	spending	company	
resources,	preparing	financial	reports	or	safeguarding	sensitive	data,	we	hold	our	people	accountable	for	acting	in	accordance	with	our	values	and	making	the	right	decisions	for	the	future	of	the	business. Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006We take aggressive action against 
this kind of activity. For example, Verizon 
Wireless was the first wireless company 
to take legal action against pretexters. We 
also have strengthened our procedures 
for permitting customers to access their 
accounts by:
• Requiring passwords for online 
access;
• Reducing the use of Social Security 
numbers as a form of identification; and
• Training our service representa -
tives on the techniques pretexters use 
and providing our representatives with 
procedures for validating a customer’s 
iden¬tity before allowing them to access 
their accounts.Verizon has joined with other industry 
leaders to develop “best practices” for 
authenticating a customer’s identity over 
the phone or online and for notifying 
customers when their accounts have 
been accessed. 
To view our privacy principles and to 
read a full account of our policies and 
procedures for protecting customer data, 
go to www.verizon.com/privacy.
Corporate Governance
Shareowners look to the board of 
directors to represent their interests 
and use good corporate governance in 
overseeing management’s performance 
and results. Verizon’s strong, independent board 
of directors has been instrumental in 
leading our company through a period 
of historic technological and competitive 
transformation, bringing a broad and 
diverse range of perspectives and 
expertise to bear on business issues. 
Verizon’s board has 15 members—14 
independent directors and Chairman and 
CEO Ivan Seidenberg. In 2006 the board 
elected three new outside directors. 
The board of directors constantly 
reviews our policies and procedures to 
ensure that they respond to shareowner 
expectations for transparent and ethical 
governance standards. Over the past year 
the board has adopted several reforms, 
such as majority voting for election of 
directors, election of a presiding director 
and restrictions on the number of director -
ships that can be held by Verizon board 
members and executives.
The board reviews the results and 
challenges of ingraining Verizon’s 
approach to corporate responsibility 
into the way we do business. The board 
also reviews the policies and prac -
tices governing Verizon’s political action 
committees and political contributions. 
This past year we became one of only 
a handful of corporations to post our 
political contributions online, along with 
our guidelines for political giving. The 
complete list of political contributions, 
updated quarterly, is available at www.
verizon.com/responsibility. 
For more information about the board 
and its committees, charters and guide -
lines, go to www.verizon.com/investor 
and select “Corporate Governance.”  
IntegrIty
integrity is at the heart of everything we do. We are honest, ethical and upfront 
because trust is at the foundation of our relationships with our customers, our 
communities, our stakeholders and each other.
respect
We know it is critical that we respect everyone at every level of our business. We 
champion diversity, embrace individuality and listen carefully when others speak.
performance excellence
We hold ourselves to a very high standard of performance. We prize innovative ideas 
and the teamwork it takes to make them realities. We never stop asking ourselves 
how we can make the customer experience better, and every day we find an answer.
accountabIlIty
We take responsibility for our actions as individuals, as team members and as an 
organization. We work together, support one another and never let the customer—  
or our co-workers—down.
Great companies are judged by what they do, not by what they say. To be the best, 
we’re going to keep pushing ourselves in new and exciting directions. These values 
will guide our every action.Verizon Commitment and Values
the Verizon commitment puts our customers first by providing excellent 
service and great communications experiences. this is what we do and 
this is why we exist. In order to keep this commitment, we must always 
honor our core values: Ethics and Governance
Ethics & Governance: 2007Rollout	of	“CR	360”
This	online	decision-making	course	
will	be	made	available	to	our	employ -
ees,	encouraging	them	to	consider	
our	values—Integrity,	Respect,	Perfor -
mance	Excellence	and	Accountabil -
ity—as	well	as	stakeholder	expecta -
tions	in	making	business	decisions.
Supplier	Code	of	Conduct
We	are	enhancing	and	implement -
ing	our	supplier	code	of	conduct	to	
promote	ethical	standards	among	
our	suppliers	worldwide.	Doing	so	
will	promote	safe	working	conditions,	
respect	for	workers,	and	environmen -
tally	responsible	manufacturing	pro -
cesses	throughout	Verizon’s	supply	chain	(see	also	Promoting	Community	
Growth,	page	18).	
Privacy
We	are	launching	several	privacy	and	
security	initiatives	in	2007	that	will	
give	consumers	more	tools	to	better	
protect	themselves	against	those	who	attempt	to	use	technology	to	
gain	private	information.	For	example,	
we’re	working	in	conjunction	with	
the	National	Consumers	League	
and	Consumer	Action	to	produce	a	
multilingual	pretexting	brochure	and	consumer-education	campaign.
Conflict	of	Interest	Questionnaire
We	will	complete	in	2007	mandatory	certification	for	all	Verizon	directors	
and	above	to	identify	any	real	or	
potential	conflicts	of	interest.	
integrity on the Job
for frank Walmsley (pictured) integrity is about making the right choices—  
on the job and off. 
While installing a jack for a customer this past fall, Walmsley, a multimedia services 
technician with Verizon Connected solutions in newport news, V a, had to go up into the 
small attic space above the customer’s bedroom. frank found several open boxes in the 
crawl space and told the customer that one of the boxes contained cash.
after frank brought the box down, the customer offered some of the money to Walmsley 
as a finder’s fee. he politely declined. When frank finished the job, the customer again offered Walmsley a tip. again, he politely declined, said thank you and left a card.
“every time you go into a customer’s home, you’re in a position of trust,” frank said. 
“Customers see ‘Verizon’ and they know they can trust us, and you’ve got to have 
respect for that.”
Walmsley’s supervisor, steve imsande, wasn’t surprised to learn of his technician’s 
integrity in refusing the money. accepting it would have been a violation of the  
Verizon Code of Conduct.
“every hour of every day, you have a decision to make,” he said. “y ou can either make 
the right decision or the wrong one. frank is just one of those guys who figures he’s got 
a job to do and he’s going to do it the right way.”Multi-Media Services 
Technician 
Verizon Connected 
Solutions Inc.Juana	Morales,	area	manager	of	FiOS	Construction	in	 	
Pinellas	County,	FL,	reviews	progress	on-site	with	 	
Dennis	Burg,	a	local	construction	manager	on	her	team.
 Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006Area Manager, 
Construction  
Verizon CommunicationsLocal Manager, 
Construction 
Verizon CommunicationsInnovation is transforming  
our networks, our services  
and our communities.
serViCe and inno Vation Service and InnovationVerizon’s reputation rests on the quality of our netWorks. Whether	they’re	
at	home,	at	work	or	on	the	move,	customers	look	to	us	to	provide	reliable	service—all	day,	every	
day—and	to	extend	that	“always	on”	reliability	as	we	expand	into	new	markets	such	as	video,	broadband	and	global	IP	services.	
Our employees understand the 
huge responsibility we have to the 
people and businesses that rely 
on our networks and services, especially 
in an increasingly interconnected global 
economy. Doing that work has taken us 
in exciting new directions. 
Verizon leads the industry in deploying 
new network technologies, which are 
creating an explosion of innovative new 
products and services that hold great 
promise for addressing broad social 
concerns and meeting the unique needs 
of diverse stakeholders. 
Network Reliability
Verizon operates the most reliable 
wireless network in the U.S., an exten -
sive global Internet backbone network 
and an advanced broadband network. 
We have consistently been a leader in 
deploying new network technologies. For 
example, Verizon was the first to deploy 
a nationwide wireless data network, and 
we are the only major communications 
company in the U.S. to take fiber to cus -
tomers’ homes and businesses with our 
new FiOS broadband technology.
Our reliable networks create satisfied 
customers, as numerous organizations 
and publications have noted.
• Verizon Business received the high -
est customer satisfaction score among 
data service providers for 2006 in a J.D. 
Power and Associates survey for the 
third year in a row.• Verizon Wireless grabbed the top 
spot (tied with T-Mobile) among wire -
less carriers in the American Customer 
Satisfaction Index (ACSI) survey conduct -
ed by the University of Michigan. This 
was Verizon Wireless’ third consecutive 
year at the top. 
• Verizon was named to Wired  
magazine’s 2006 “The Wired 40” list. 
To be included on this list a company 
must demonstrate strategic vision, global 
reach, cutting-edge technology and be 
a trendsetter. (For a list of other 2006 
awards, see page 36).
More important than awards, 
however, is the security and reliability our 
networks deliver to customers. Verizon’s 
infrastructure is an essential element of 
emergency preparedness and recovery, 
both in the U.S. and around the world. 
Some examples from 2006 include:
• The American Red Cross can now 
respond faster to people affected by 
natural disasters and other cataclysmic 
events, thanks to an advanced call-
center solution developed by Verizon 
Business that allows the Red Cross to 
answer as many as 120,000 calls and to 
process as many as 100,000 individual 
cases every day.
• Verizon served as a vital communica -
tions link during one of the worst wildfire 
seasons to hit the western U.S. in 50 
years. Verizon Wireless deployed mobile 
cell sites in seven western states and 
provided wireless phones to firefighters To	help	 ensure	 customer	 satisfaction,	
we	strive	for	four	separate	customer	
contacts	on	each	job—one	before	
the	job,	one	onsite	at	the	start	of	the	job,	one	when	the	work	is	
completed	and	finally	a	follow-up	
call.	Communicating	with	customers	is	a	key	factor	in	their	satisfaction. Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
After	real-life	“Test	Guy”	Kenneth	Lee	
completes	his	routes,	he	enters	data	
onto	computers	at	Verizon	Wireless	
network	test	centers	to	ensure	Verizon	Wireless	is	the	most	reliable	network.
Baseline Technician 
Verizon Wirelesswho are hearing, motion and vision 
impaired. These centers serve Verizon 
customers nationwide.
Service Innovation
Verizon invested more than $17 billion 
in network technologies in 2006. As 
we deploy next-generation networks, 
Verizon has also unleashed a stream 
of innovative services and applications. 
For instance, the unprecedented speed 
and capacity of FiOS allow us to offer 
the fastest Internet access speeds cur -
rently available—up to 50 megabits per 
second—allowing customers to easily 
send and receive photos, videos, music, 
and other large files. 
We have begun to provide an all-
digital video service—FiOS TV—bringing 
the benefits of technological innova -
tion and video service competition to 
consumers in hundreds of communities. 
FiOS TV is clearly a superior choice, 
offering more than 25 high-definition (HD) 
channels, more than 8,000 on-demand 
videos and unmatched picture quality. Transforming our networks for the 
Internet age and simultaneously creating 
complex new businesses like FiOS TV 
virtually overnight have presented some 
service challenges. We are focused 
on those challenges, implementing 
new processes to reduce customer 
complaints and making sure employees 
have the tools and knowledge needed 
to perform effectively. Our goal is to 
achieve a reputation as the best service 
company in the industry. We believe 
Verizon is better positioned than any firm 
in the industry to deliver on that commit -
ment for consumers and businesses, no 
matter where they are or what network 
they’re using.
Sometimes providing great service to 
customers has nothing to do with tech -
nology, but rather comes from listening 
to customers and responding to their 
needs. For example, one of the biggest 
sources of customer dissatisfaction with 
wireless carriers is the hefty fees cus -
tomers face when they terminate service 
before their contract expires. In 2006, 
Verizon Wireless became the first—and, 
to date, the only—wireless company in 
the U.S. to change this policy by pro-
rating the termination fee based on the 
remaining life of the contract.
We also make every effort to serve 
the special needs of our diverse 
customer base. Our Multilingual National 
Call Centers are responsible for sales 
and service to Verizon’s small business 
and consumer customers in their own 
language, including Russian, Spanish, 
Mandarin, Korean, Vietnamese and 
Cantonese. Verizon also has two 
Centers for Customers with Disabilities 
that provide services for customers  and emergency responders, often in 
rugged and remote wilderness terrain. 
In Southern California, Verizon Telecom 
offered free call-forwarding service to 
customers displaced by fires in the San 
Bernardino National Forest.
• Verizon’s extensive private IP network 
in Asia proved critical to the quick 
restoration of service in the aftermath 
of a major earthquake off the coast of 
Taiwan in December 2006. Even though 
we suffered damage to several undersea 
cables, we were able to maintain full 
network connectivity on our private IP 
network and provide virtually uninter -
rupted service for customers in major 
business centers in Taiwan, Hong Kong 
and other locations around the world. 
• Verizon Wireless provides priority 
service for national security and other 
officials who must have emergency 
communications capabilities. The service 
assures authorized users priority access 
to available wireless channels during 
emergencies. Service and Innovation
JoJo rapipong no longer wears out her shoes when taking care of her 
critical-care patients, but she sure gives her mouse pad a work out.
rapipong is one of a handful of nurses who work on the leading edge 
of medicine in a quiet, second-story office space in fairfax, V a. it’s 
the inova health system’s eiCu—a revolution in critical care made 
possible with an extensive, secure fiber-optic network created and maintained by Verizon business. 
each nurse monitors 20 to 30 patients around the clock in eight 
critical-care units within six inova hospitals. during the day, four 
nurses sit at stations equipped with six large computer screens that 
convey a host of real-time information—including video—about 
individual patients.
doctors are on hand at night to address patients’ needs within 15 
seconds of being called by a bedside nurse. the doctors can use a 
video link that can zoom in close enough to check a patient’s pupils. eiCu: better health Care delivered over Verizon broadband
the network Verizon business designed not only helps provide cutting-
edge health care, it provides reliability and redundancy that health-care 
professionals demand, and the necessary security and privacy that 
patients expect.
“We wanted a provider that not only understood our business and was committed to inova’s success, but was someone we could strategize with about the best technology solutions for the future,” said phil stiff, inova’s director of it infrastructure. “When we added it all up, only Verizon business could deliver everything inova was looking for.”
studies show that an eiCu can reduce hospital mortality for critical-
care patients by 20 percent and reduce the average length of stay in  
an iCu by 17 percent. “We’re here to support the nurses at bedside,” rapipong said, but 
added that sometimes the hardest part of her job is not being able to 
tend to a patient herself. “there are times when i wish i could jump in 
and be on the other side of the computer screen,” she said.0 Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
Customer Service 
Associate Director  
Verizon WirelessNetwork Engineer 
Verizon WirelessThe Verizon Wireless advantage has 
long been the most reliable wireless 
voice and data network in the nation 
and providing the best customer service, 
as evidenced by the highest customer 
loyalty in the industry. And we are clearly 
the leader in matching the entertainment 
content customers want with the mobility 
they need. We launched V CAST Music 
in early 2006 and now offer V CAST 
Mobile TV—the first mobile video service 
in the nation—to accompany popular 
wireless data services like text messag -
ing, Global Positioning System navigation 
and Internet access. 
Our major investment in new tech -
nologies is also driving innovation in 
other segments of the high-tech industry, 
spurring advances in consumer electron -
ics, fiber and optical technologies and battery life, and providing a high-speed 
platform for new forms of user-generated 
content, including high-definition video, 
interactive games and social networking.
Verizon is working—on our own and 
with partners—to unleash the power 
of these innovative technologies to 
address social concerns, make technol -
ogy more broadly accessible and meet 
the needs of our diverse customers. 
Some of these initiatives include: 
• Health	care	 – Medical institutions 
are working with Verizon to use the 
capabilities inherent in our high-speed 
fiber networks to extend their reach into 
the community and maximize the use of 
scarce medical resources. Read more 
about one such initiative at the Inova 
Health System in Fairfax, VA, on page 9. 
We also believe that electronic health-
innovating for better service
expanding into  new markets—like video, broadband and global ip service—
means new opportunities for making the customer experience better. 
take Jamahl Johnson, a network engineer with Verizon Wireless in 
southlake, tX. last year, he suggested that we use our short Messaging 
service (sMs) to automatically notify Verizon Wireless customers when 
problems they experienced have been resolved. before, customers were 
contacted by phone when their issue had been resolved.
enter Vernon Villasenor, a customer service associate director in irvine, Ca. 
he headed a project based on Johnson’s idea, and in november 2006 the new interface was launched for use by Customer service.
in the first three weeks, Verizon Wireless sent more than 3,700 messages, 
giving customers almost immediate notice that we had addressed their 
issues. not only do we save the customers’ time, the new system saves 
Verizon Wireless money. the old approach of a phone call cost an estimated 
$11 per call. the sMs solution saved the company more than $40,000 in 
less than a month. overall, the projected savings are expected to be around 
$500,000 per year.•  provide quality service that can reasonably accommodate a broad range of diverse users, 
including youth, individuals with disabilities and seniors;
•  review existing services to determine which services should be made more accessible; 
•  design and develop services, to the extent readily achievable, to be accessible  
to a broad range of users; 
•  Market and provision services in a manner consistent with universal design; and 
•  employ these principles Verizon-wide in relationships with customers, employees, 
shareowners and suppliers.
Verizon’s universal design principles
 Service and Innovation
Fiber Network Field 
Technician  
Verizon Telecom 
Regional Operations
A	Verizon	fiber	network	field	technician,	
Stephanie	Lindsay	also	serves	as	the	
front-line	customer	service	representative	as	she	
installs	FiOS	service	for	a	customer	in	Temple	Terrace,	
FL.	Temple	Terrace	was	among	the	first	communities	
in	the	country	to	issue	a	franchise	for	FiOS	TV	service.
care records—a feasible transformation 
from paper given the power and reach 
of broadband networks—can play a key 
role in managing costs and improving 
the efficiency and quality of the U.S. 
health-care system. Today, fewer than 
10 percent of hospitals use electronic 
records, instead conducting business 
by paper, fax and phone. This puts the 
medical system out of synch with how 
business is conducted in most of the 
economy. Experts believe that wide -
spread use of electronic medical records 
could cut annual health-care costs by 
more than $80 billion.
Verizon continues to be a leading 
advocate of electronic health-care 
records. Chairman and CEO Ivan 
Seidenberg was a member of the federal 
government’s recent commission on health-care information technology and 
has joined other medical and technology 
experts to improve quality and reduce 
costs through technology. In 2006 
Verizon joined other large corporations 
in supporting the goals proposed by the 
U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services to increase the use of technol -
ogy, provide more transparency regard -
ing costs to consumers and inject more 
competition into the American health-
care system.
• Family	safety	 – For many families,  
a wireless phone represents peace of 
mind when it comes to a child’s safety. 
ChaperoneSM service from Verizon 
Wireless help parents locate their  
children and provide kids with a quick 
and easy way to call home.  
For more information, go to  
www.verizonwireless.com/chaperone. 
We also offer safety plans, up-to-the-
minute information on emergency pre -
paredness and links to federal and local 
disaster-relief agencies via the Verizon 
Wireless Emergency Preparedness Web 
site http://news.vzw.com/criticalevents. • Accessibility	 – To make our products 
and services accessible to customers 
with disabilities and others with special 
needs, Verizon follows Universal Design 
Principles adopted by the company in 
1996. (See sidebar below for a list of 
these principles). Now we are exploring 
how to apply those principles to other 
new technologies such as FiOS TV  
and wireless calling. For example, our 
design laboratory teamed with WGBH 
TV’s National Center for Accessible 
Media in Boston, MA to create en -
hanced captioning that enables viewers 
to change the size and location of the 
captioning that appears on their FiOS TV 
programming. In the wireless market, we 
provided more phone models with voice-
recognition technology and introduced a 
calling plan for hearing-impaired custom -
ers that provides more texting minutes 
than voice minutes.
• Diverse	programming	 – In part -
nership with several major civil rights 
organizations, Verizon has introduced 
a library of on-demand programming 
called “Verizon Community Studio”  Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
Verizon	launched	the	Partnership	for	a	Child-Safe	Internet	with	a	town	hall	meeting	at	
the	University	of	New	Hampshire.	Verizon	Online	General	Counsel	Tom	Dailey	(fourth	
from	right)	presented	the	Crimes	Against	Children	Research	Center	at	UNH	with	a	
$150,000	grant	from	the	Verizon	Foundation.on FiOS TV. These programs consist 
of socially responsible, family-friendly 
and nonpartisan content generated by 
stakeholders, such as the American 
Association of People with Disabilities, 
Black Leadership Forum, Leadership 
Conference on Civil Rights, National 
Hispanic Media Coalition, U.S. Distance 
Learning Association and i-Safe.
• Multicultural	customers	 – Verizon 
Telecom launched Web portals for 
Spanish-, Chinese- and Korean-speak -
ing customers to provide them with 
information about FiOS Internet services  
(http://www22.verizon.com/fiosespanol,  
www.verizonfios.com/chinese and  
www.verizonfios.com/korean).  
Verizon Wireless also offers customers  
a complete Spanish-language online 
shopping experience  
(www.verizonwireless.com/espanol). In 
addition, we now offer “Mi Cuenta,” a 
Spanish version of the Verizon Wireless 
online account-management tool  
(www.verizonwireless.com/micuenta). 
Online Safety
With more and more of our custom -
ers using the Internet for research, work 
and entertainment, Verizon is at the fore -
front of empowering parents, teachers 
and law enforcement officials to keep 
children safe while they’re online.
While we provide a wide variety 
of cyber-security tools and education 
programs, we have found that a lack  
of basic technology literacy often poses a 
barrier for the adults who might use  
them the most. 
That’s why we launched the 
“Partnership for a Child-Safe Internet” in 2006 to engage the community face-to-
face in the drive to promote a safe online 
environment for children. 
Working with the state attorney 
general’s office, we held a town hall 
meeting in New Hampshire for 400 law 
enforcement officials, parents, educa -
tors, librarians and nonprofit executives. 
We discussed how parents can get 
the online tools they need to keep their 
children safe and what law enforcement 
agencies are doing to create a more 
secure Internet. We plan to hold several 
more Partnership forums in 2007.
Other Verizon initiatives in the area of 
online safety include the following:
• The Verizon Foundation has made a 
$150,000 grant to the Crimes Against 
Children Research Center at the 
University of New Hampshire to support research on emerging technologies to 
combat child exploitation.
• We are working with partners such 
as iSafe, GetNetWise, SeniorNet and the 
Family Online Safety Institute to deliver 
tools and information to various seg -
ments of the community.
• We are partnering with the National 
Center for Missing and Exploited 
Children to report incidents involving 
child pornography and endangerment, 
as well as assisting law enforcement offi -
cials in the search for Internet predators.
  Service and Innovation
like many americans, Verizon employees are 
sometimes asked to trade in their tool belts 
and suits for military uniforms. 
More than 85 Verizon employees are currently 
on active duty with the national guard and  
the reserves. since the september 11 
terrorist attacks, Verizon employees have 
been called to active duty more than 1,000 
times, with some having been activated as many as four times. our employees have served in afghanistan, iraq and surrounding 
countries, while others have played crucial 
roles here at home.
bob emery, a cable splicer for Verizon  
telecom in l ynnwood, W a, is one of those 
employees. he recently returned from 
emergency military leave after serving a tour 
of duty in the national guard at an airbase in iraq, west of baghdad.
Verizon honors the sacrifice that emery 
and others make when called to duty, and 
the company supports them by paying the 
difference between employees’ 
military pay and their 
Verizon pay for up to 36 
months. benefits for the 
employees and their 
families remain intact.
to thank Verizon for 
its support during his 
absence, emery sent to the company the u .s. 
flag that flew over the airbase on oct. 31, 2006. the flag is now 
encased in a shadow 
box in the Verizon 
Service & Innovation: 2007Accessibility
We	will	continue	to	apply	our	Univer -
sal	Design	Principles	in	developing	
products	for	people	with	disabilities	
and	adapting	those	products	to	ac -
commodate	the	needs	of	aging	“baby	
boomers.”	Due	to	launch	in	2007:	a	
“big	button”	remote,	Caller	ID	on	FiOS	TV	and	an	“Accessibility	Corner”	in	
Verizon	Experience	stores.
A	Safer	Internet
We	will	hold	public	forums	in	2007	
in	our	communities	and	at	national	venues,	engaging	parents,	lawmak
-
ers,	and	civic	leaders	in	finding	ways	
to	keep	children	safe	on	the	Internet.	
In	addition,	we’ll	continue	using	our	technology	to	provide	our	customers	
with	new	tools	and	resources	to	help	
make	their	online	experience	safe,	as	well	as	funding	research	and	pro
-
grams	to	understand	online	behaviors	
and	support	law	enforcement.
	
Applying	Technology
We	will	continue	working	to	use	our	
technology	to	improve	education,	the	
environment	and	health	care.	 	
For	example,	we	are	expanding	the	resources	of	the	Verizon	Foundation	
to	help	parents	and	teachers	improve	literacy;	exploring	how	wireless	
devices	can	improve	the	efficiency	
of	health-care	delivery	in	rural	areas;	launching	a	Personal	Health	Record	
system	for	employees;	and,	we	are	
working	hard	to	establish	a	national	
policy	to	improve	the	delivery	of	
health	care	through	the	use	of	elec
-
tronic	medical	records.	northwest headquarters building in  
everett, W a.
Verizon business also extends its support and 
appreciation for the sacrifices that all the men 
and women in our armed forces make every 
day. notable examples are: 
• teamed with the freedom Calls 
foundation before Christmas to provide the 
communications links, large screens and 
technical support for a videoconference with u.s. Marines in iraq and their families at 
Camp pendleton, Ca.
• provided free telephone calls for  
iraq-based u .s. armed forces personnel on 
major holidays, as well as on Mother’s day and father’s day.
• donated pre-paid calling cards to u .s. 
troops traveling, stationed or recuperating in the united states, as well as to their families. 
the efforts elicited this e-mail from sgt. 1st 
Class richard gonzales:
“i am a service member assigned 
to Camp Cropper/stryker, 
iraq, and have enjoyed 
the benefit of your free 
phone service during 
the holiday periods. 
i cannot thank 
you enough for 
this incredible 
gift…y ou have risen above the rest and 
demonstrated your support of the folks who secure american liberty. your 
 
patriotism resonates through every  
phone call. it is a great honor to serve  
our nation when i know there are folks  
like you who appreciate our sacrifices.”supporting those Who serve Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006Karmalita	Contee-Borders	became	the	first	in	her	family	to	earn	a	
Ph.D.	She	did	it	with	help	from	Verizon’s	Tuition	Assistance	Program.	
Contee-Borders,	a	FiOS	product	line	manager,	first	used	the	program	
in	1988	to	earn	a	master’s	degree	in	business	administration.		
“I	sometimes	feel	like	I	am	the	busiest	person	in	the	world,	but	that	
doesn’t	stop	me	from	doing	more,”	she	said.Senior Product Manager 
Verizon Services 
CorporationVerizon employees receive the 
education and training to deliver  
outstanding customer service.
eMpoWering eMployees Empowering EmployeesWe strive to create an account -
able culture that respects the 
individual and taps the full 
range of talent and potential inherent in 
our diverse workforce of some 240,000 
people. We need employees with the 
skills required to succeed in a tech -
nologically sophisticated industry, the 
multicultural perspectives to relate to our 
customers and the tools to successfully 
manage the demands of their careers 
and families.
Our approach is to put the tools for 
managing their futures in the hands of 
our people. In return, we offer them the 
opportunity for challenging and satisfying 
careers, serving customers in one of the 
most exciting industries in the world.
Training and Development
Next-generation technology creates 
next-generation jobs. Our people are 
required to design, build and operate 
some of the most technologically 
advanced networks being deployed 
in the world today. Verizon provides 
employees with extensive training—both 
in-house and at colleges and uni -
versities—to work with the complex, 
sophisticated broadband, mobile and IP 
technologies that increasingly comprise 
the growth segments of our company. 
Verizon paid nearly $110 million in tuition 
assistance in 2006, and our employees 
dedicated more than 8 million hours to 
training and education programs.  
Some examples of this commitment 
include:
• In 2006 Verizon Telecom associates 
logged nearly 4.3 million hours of train -
ing, outpacing last year’s rate and rivaling 
the hours of instruction provided by 
many small colleges. Much of that was 
devoted to training employees to deploy 
our new fiber network.• Verizon’s tuition assistance programs 
prepay 100 percent of approved tuition 
and fees at accredited institutions of 
higher education, up to $8,000 per year. 
Nearly 27,000 Verizon employees took 
advantage of this program in 2006. 
• A cooperative venture between 
Verizon and Empire State College (part of 
the State University of New York) allows 
employees to earn associate and bach -
elor’s degrees in business, technology 
and related disciplines. More than 200 
employees were enrolled in the program 
in 2005-2006, 74 of whom graduated 
with degrees in June.
Training  magazine named Verizon 
Wireless among the best companies in 
providing training for employees in 2006 
for the fifth consecutive year.
Safety 
A great place to work begins with 
a safe working environment. Rigorous 
attention to safety is embedded deeply in our culture, and we invest significant re -
sources in training employees to do their 
work safely. In 2006, employees spent 
more than 637,000 hours in safety-
related training and availed themselves of 
nearly 350 online courses. 
Safety measurements improved 
across Verizon in 2006, including lower 
rates of injury and illness, fewer lost work 
days and fewer motor vehicle accidents. 
We received only 11 OSHA citations 
in 2006. Of the 11 citations, four were 
rescinded, two are still pending and five 
were upheld. 
Nevertheless, in 2006, four employee 
fatalities were associated with electricity. 
In response, we focused on our national 
electrical-safety training, re-emphasizing 
safe work practices and reinforcing the 
use of required protective equipment. 
This program contributed to a year-over-
year decline in the number of safety 
incidents causing lost work days.  
We continue to reinforce employee 
Training	Manager	
Brian	Pinkstaff	(right)	
leads	the	retraining	of	
Verizon	technicians	for	FiOS.		FiOS	Technician	
Orlando	Plaza	eagerly	
made	the	transition	from	copper	to	fiber.
Manager-Work Force 
Performance  
Verizon Services 
Corporation  Fiber Network Field 
Technician 
FiOS Customer 
Operations
Verizon’s inVestMent in people Can be eXpressed 	in	dollars	and	cents:	$22	billion—
nearly	24	percent	of	total	revenues—went	toward	our	very	competitive	employee	compensation	
and	benefits	in	2006.	But	numbers	alone	don’t	tell	the	story	of	why	Verizon	is	a	great	place	to	work. Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006HealthZone at the end of 2006. 
In 2006, Verizon provided health-care 
benefits of $3.5 billion, covering  
over 900,000 employees, dependents 
and retirees
Verizon remains focused on the larger 
issue of rapidly rising health-care costs. 
We are actively working with our custom -
ers to implement broadband tech -
nologies to better manage health costs 
and boost efficiency, and we a strong 
advocate for developing national policy 
to improve the delivery of health care 
through the use of electronic medical 
records (see Service and Innovation, 
page 9). The challenge is considerable: 
Verizon’s health-care costs have risen  
28 percent in the last three years. Left 
unchecked, these escalating costs 
threaten the ability of Verizon and other 
large employers to provide affordable 
health-care options for employees, 
retirees and families.
Work and Family Balance
Verizon recognizes the challenges our 
employees face in juggling the demands 
of work and family. We accommodate a 
variety of flexible work policies, includ -
ing telecommuting and flextime, as 
the needs of the business permit. In 
recognition of our family-friendly benefits 
and policies, Working Mother  magazine 
selected Verizon as one of its “100 
Best Companies”—making us the only 
telecom company on the 2006 list.
In keeping with our culture of 
personal accountability, our work-family 
policies are designed to put the tools for resource for credible health informa -
tion designed to help employees make 
informed health-care choices. Powered 
by WebMD, HealthZone offers em -
ployees personalized assessments on 
various health conditions, interactive 
tools for maintaining a healthy lifestyle, 
and the opportunity to create a  
personal health file tailored to their 
needs. Approximately 11 percent of 
eligible employees had registered for awareness about work hazards and the 
need for safe work habits.
Health
Our approach to employee health 
care is to empower our people to better 
manage their own health, and that of 
their families, by putting more and better 
information at their fingertips. 
For example, in 2006 we introduced 
the Verizon HealthZone, a free, online 
Employ EE profil E as of 12/31/06 ( Ethnic div Ersity) 
While our diversity numbers compare favorably to the overall labor force in the United States, we continue to  
look at all of our markets to ensure that our diversity profile allows us to meet our customer-first commitment  
and compete effectively. 
 
Management Non-Management TotalProfile 
as of 
12/31/05Profile 
of Total 
U.S. 
Labor 
Force
American 
Indian / 
Alaskan Native476 0.6% 836 0.5% 1312 0.6% 0.5% 1.1%
Asian 7,214 9.8% 6,151 3.9% 13,365 5.8% 4.9% 4.0% 
Black 10,601 14.5% 34,611 21.8% 45,212 19.5% 20.2% 10.6%
Hispanic 4,880 6.7% 14,395 9.1% 19,275 8.3% 8.1% 10.7%
White 50,047 68.2.% 102,821 64.7% 152,868 65.8% 66.3% 73.6%
Total 73,343  158,880  232,223  
Employ EE profil E as of 12/31/06 (B y GENDE r)
 
Management Non-Management                   TotalProfile 
as of 
12/31/05Profile 
of Total 
U.S. 
Labor 
Force
Female 26,652 36.3% 69,514 43.8% 96,166 41.4% 43.3% 46%
Male 46,691 63.7% 89,336 56.2% 135,057 58.6% 56.7% 54%
Total 73,343  158,880  232,223  
  Empowering Employeesmanaging their lives in the hands of our 
employees. Among these programs are 
the following:
• Verizon’s employee assistance 
program, VZ-LIFE, provides resources 
for dealing with personal problems and 
challenges related to parenting and child 
care, adult care, health and wellness, 
moving and relocation, and many other 
issues. On average, employees contact 
VZ-LIFE by telephone more than 3,000 
times a month and log on to the Web 
site, www.verizon.com/life, nearly 50,000 
times per month.
• We offer discounts with several 
national childcare providers: ChildTime, 
Children’s World, KinderCare and La 
Petite Academy.
• Each year more than 200 children 
of Verizon employees receive four-year, 
$20,000 college scholarships.
• Our adoption assistance program 
provides up to $10,000 for expenses 
incurred during the adoption of a child. 
•  Both birth and adoptive parents can 
take advantage of our gradual return-
to-work program, which recognizes the 
special needs of new parents.
Diversity
Respect for diversity is an integral 
part of the Verizon culture and a critical 
element of our competitive success. Our 
goal is to create an inclusive organiza -
tion of employees with diverse ethnic 
backgrounds, life experiences and points 
of view, who can relate to our custom -
ers and reflect the diversity of tastes and 
preferences in the marketplace.We hold our leaders account -
able for meeting our diversity goals, 
which are expressed in explicit per -
formance metrics that are tracked, 
along with other business objectives, 
and linked to short-term compensa -
tion. In 2006, people of color made up 
approximately 45 percent of Verizon’s 
total workforce and 38 percent of 
our management team. Combined, 
women and people of color represent 
60 percent of our total workforce 
Numerous initiatives drive our diversity 
performance, including:
• The identification, retention and 
development of diverse high-potential 
managers;
• Employee opinion surveys that mea -
sure an inclusive workplace; and
• Employee resource groups that pro -
vide a forum for networking, mentoring 
and professional development.
Our overall diversity strategy is 
anchored in our Customer First Commit -
ment and includes:
• Employing a diverse workforce, 
with representation that mirrors our 
marketplace;
• Ensuring an inclusive, high-performing 
workplace where diversity is valued and 
there is no tolerance for discrimination or 
harassment;
• Participating through grants and 
partnerships in community activities that 
champion diversity;
• Doing business with diverse suppliers; 
and
• Maintaining a diverse board of 
directors.
Empowering Employees: 2007Next-Generation	Jobs
The	explosive	growth	of	broadband	
and	the	applications	that	use	it	means	
we	will	be	training	more	employees	in	
the	latest	broadband	and	communi -
cations	technology	to	prepare	them	
for	the	next-generation	jobs.
More	Access
In	2007,	we	will	provide	employees	
with	greater	access	to	their	benefit	
information	online	and	promote	 	
self-service	applications	for	their	
convenience.
Improving	Health	Care
This	year	we’re	offering	employees	 	
an	enhanced	Personal	Health	Care	Record—a	tool	that	allows	partici
-
pants	to	gather,	store	and	manage	
essential	health	information	from	
multiple	sources	in	one	file.	By	doing	
that,	employees	can,	if	they	choose,	
share	the	information	with	their	 	
doctor,	their	health	plan	or	others. Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
proMoting CoMMunity groWth
The network for the next generation 
means good jobs now for a new 
generation of broadband technicians. Promoting Community GrowthOur investment creates high-tech 
jobs, promotes innovation and 
stimulates growth up and down 
our extensive supply chain.
An Engine for Growth
As a major employer and investor  
in communities across America and the 
world, Verizon’s impact on local econo -
mies can be felt in all sorts of ways. In 
2006 we:
• Invested more than $17 billion of 
capital in our networks;
• Paid $6 billion in state and local taxes;
• Employed approximately 242,000 
people; and
• Spent more than $47 billion in  
non-wage dollars to procure goods  
and services.
We are transforming our traditional 
telephone business, and we are creating 
the jobs of the future through our invest -
ment in new technologies such as fiber 
and wireless. In fact, Verizon 
added jobs in 2006 year-over-
year (approximately 242,000 
compared to 206,000 at 
year-end 2005), even 
without the acquisi -
tion of MCI. In 2006 we added 8,200 new fiber-
related jobs and nearly 9,000 new jobs 
in wireless. The 8,200 new fiber-related 
jobs alone amounted to nearly $400 
million in wages and salaries, as well  
as $1.2 billion in economic activity  
resulting from increased demand for 
household goods, etc.
In 2006 Verizon’s fiber-to-the-home 
project, called FiOS, gained scale and 
momentum. This multibillion-dollar invest -
ment is one of the major infrastructure 
projects of this—or any—generation. 
By the end of 2006 we had installed 
nearly 70,000 miles of fiber in 1,600 
communities across 16 states—almost 
enough to circle the equator three 
times. As with other large infrastructure 
projects, Verizon’s fiber investment 
creates jobs not just at our company but 
also throughout the economy. 
For example, economists say that 
every fiber-related job we create at 
Verizon leads to another four jobs 
created elsewhere in the community. 
Using this “multiplier effect,” our fiber 
investment alone resulted in 32,800 new 
jobs in local economies.
Some examples of Verizon’s  
positive impact on local economies  
in 2006 include:
• More than 850 new jobs in New 
England, thanks to our expansion of  
the Verizon Wireless network;We build and Maintain netWorks aCross the Country and	
around	 the	world.	 These	 networks	 represent	 an	enormous	 investment	 in	the	new	
communications	and	information	technologies	that	are	driving	our	economy	and	
giving	people	the	tools	to	create	their	futures.	
Larry	Ruegger,	a	Verizon	retiree,	
instructs	the	second	class	of	the	new	
Broadband	Institute	at	the	Pinellas	
Technical	Education	Center	in	Clearwater,	FL.	Verizon	provided	initial	funding	and	
technical	expertise	to	establish	the	Institute	
as	demand	for	skilled	broadband	technicians	far	outstripped	the	skilled	workforce	available.0 Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006Verizon	Business	serves	
customers	on	six	continents	
over	one	of	the	world’s	most	
advanced	IP	networks.	
Verizon	Data	Services	India	employee	Vijay	Jestadi	volunteers	to	teachEnglish,	math	and	life	skills	to	children	of	a	local	day	school	and	orphanage	in	
Hyderabad.	He	also	helps	with	computer	classes	at	the	school.and foster environmentally responsible 
manufacturing processes. We bench -
marked practices in the information 
technology industry and worked to 
incorporate relevant standards from our 
employee Code of Conduct. The revised 
code will be implemented during the first 
half of 2007. 
We were also an active member 
of the Global eSustainability Initiative’s 
(GeSI) supply-chain management 
software-development process. GeSI 
is in the final stages of developing a 
software tool that assists commu -
nications providers in evaluating the 
performance of suppliers. By using this 
software, communications providers 
and their suppliers will be able to share 
information about supplier performance 
and best practices. 
Verizon brings to its global markets 
the same values and the same commit -
ment to community involvement  
that guide our domestic operations. 
Our international employees are actively 
involved in improving the quality of life in 
their local communities:
• U.K. employees sponsored a disabil -
ity awareness day at our Reading,  
England offices;
• Verizon Business provides broad -
band at discounted prices, along with 
business planning advice, to start-up 
technology businesses in South Africa;
• Employees at our facility in Chennai, 
India, started a technology outreach 
program for students at a local high 
school, designed to teach English and 
other skills to prepare students for jobs 
in India’s rapidly expanding technology 
marketplace.countries, operates one of the most 
expansive IP backbone networks in the 
world and runs five major global network 
operations centers in America, Europe 
and the Asia-Pacific region.
We inaugurated a review of our global 
operations in 2006 based on a “check -
list” of the six focus areas that make up 
our approach to corporate responsibil -
ity. They are Ethics and Governance; 
Service And Innovation, Empowering 
Employees, Promoting Community 
Growth, Protecting the Environment, 
and Partnering with Communities. A key 
finding from our 2006 review: the need to 
develop a global philanthropic strategy. 
Similarly, we began to update our 
Supplier Code of Conduct to promote 
safe working conditions throughout our 
supply chain (over 5,800 suppliers world -
wide), encourage suppliers to  
treat workers with respect and dignity, • 1,000 new jobs in California alone  
in connection with the build-out of our 
fiber network; 
• FiOS deployment to more than 300 
communities in New Jersey, including the 
top 60 urban areas; and nearly 50 com -
munities in Maryland, half of which are 
more diverse than the state average;
• 320 new hires for customer service 
jobs in state-of-the-art fiber solutions 
centers in Dallas, TX; Hampton, VA; 
Oxnard, CA; Providence, RI; Syracuse, 
NY; and Everett, WA.
Worldwide Presence
As a global company, Verizon is a 
catalyst for economic development 
overseas as well. We employ nearly 
10,000 people in more than 320 offices 
in 75 countries across six continents. 
Verizon Business manages more than 
3,400 networks in more than 140   Promoting Community GrowthAdministrative Install & 
Maintenance 
FiOS Customer 
Operations
CHRISTINA REXRODE 
The folks in Verizon’s Tampa 
Bay offices were frustrated. About 
half the people who applied for tech 
jobs were failing the preliminary 
technical test, and the telecom giant 
needed to hire hundreds of field 
workers. Tampa-based Verizon 
executive John Ferrell knew that 
the worker shortage would only 
continue. So Ferrell went to the front 
lines: He decided to help potential 
applicants groom themselves for  
the jobs. 
His idea became reality in 
August, when the Broadband 
Institute opened at the Pinellas 
Technical Education Center’s 
Clearwater campus. The institute 
offers a six-month class to train tech -
nicians, set up thanks to donations 
and ideas from PTEC, the Pinellas 
Education Foundation and several 
telecommunications companies.
It’s Verizon’s first Broadband 
Institute, but Ferrell said the 
company will consider opening 
more, depending on how this one 
fares.
The half-dozen students who 
signed up for the inaugural class 
meet at 7 a.m. every weekday…Most 
are in their 20s or late teens. All see 
the program as a step toward good 
money and interesting work in a 
field that keeps expanding.
“We’re not talking about buggy 
whips,” said Cris Coffin, a Verizon 
director in St. Petersburg who helped 
Nick	Engwall,	foreground,	one	of	the	first	class	of	graduates	from	the	Broadband	
Institute,	visits	with	members	of	the	fall	2006	class.	Nick	became	the	first	
graduate	of	the	program	to	be	hired	as	a	broadband	technician	by	Verizon.Route to Their Future
Inspired by a need for workers to install fiber optic systems,  
Verizon’s Broadband Institute is getting great reception.
get the Broadband Institute started. 
“This business is not going to end.” 
That’s why Nenad Maksimovic 
is taking the broadband classes. 
Mechanical engineering, which he 
studied for two years, isn’t growing 
as fast as the information field, said 
Maksimovic, a 33-year-old Dunedin 
resident. 
Verizon, like other telecommuni -
cations companies, is in the midst  
of burying fiber optic cables 
throughout its service areas, to 
replace copper cables. The project, 
which could take more than a 
decade, is fueling the company’s 
need for workers.
Verizon officials hope the 
Broadband Institute graduates will 
come work for them but say they’re 
happy if the students get good jobs 
anywhere. The program can accom -
modate about 25 students at a time.
James Cormany, 18, graduated 
from Pinellas Park High School this spring and figures he’ll have no 
trouble finding a job when classes 
end in February. 
An entry-level broadband install -
er can make $35,000 to $40,000 a 
year plus benefits, and up to $60,000 
with overtime, Coffin said. Besides, 
the telecom work is interesting and 
fulfilling, said Keith Pilcher, 24, of 
Clearwater. “I don’t want to work at 
a grocery store all my life,” he said.
The field does seem ripe for 
advancement: Ivan Seidenberg, 
Verizon’s CEO, started at the 
company as a field technician.
And now, when less-than-
qualified local applicants come 
to Verizon, the company makes a 
reverse referral. Said Coffin: “We tell 
them, ‘Why don’t you take this class 
with PTEC and it will more than 
prepare you?’ ”
Published December 3, 2006. This excerpt is reprinted with 
permission from the St. Petersburg Times.
 Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
Promoting Community Growth: 2007
Verizon’s impact on the u .s. economy
Supplier Diversity
Verizon believes that working with a 
strong base of diverse suppliers is critical 
to our success. These relationships con -
tribute to customer loyalty and help us 
tap the innovation and entrepreneurship 
we need to win in a competitive market. 
In 2006 we purchased nearly $2.6 billion 
in goods and services from Minority, 
Women, Disadvantaged and Veteran 
Business Enterprises (MWDVBEs), up 
14.4 percent from 2005.
Our goal is to expand the opportunity 
for diverse suppliers to compete on an 
equal basis in our strategic sourcing 
process. To that end, we have had a 
formal program for cultivating these 
relationships since 1984. In 2006 we brought all our supplier-  
diversity initiatives across Verizon 
together in a single organization, which 
focuses on creating and developing 
our relationships with MWDVBEs and 
ensuring that we meet our procurement 
objectives. This new centralized orga -
nization has streamlined our processes 
and made it easier for suppliers and 
partners to do business with us. For 
example, we have developed a one-stop, 
online registration portal for suppliers. 
As noted earlier, we are also enhanc -
ing our Supplier Code of Conduct to 
encourage safe working conditions 
throughout our supply chain, environ -
mentally responsible manufacturing 
processes and treatment of workers that 
reflects respect and dignity. A	Broader	Base
We	seek	to	deploy	our	residential	
products	and	services	to	a	broader	
customer	base,	including	customers	
who	live	in	multiple-dwelling	units.
Supplier	Accountability
We	will	hold	our	suppliers	account -
able	to	the	provisions	of	our	en -
hanced	Supplier	Code	of	Conduct,	
and	utilize	a	new	software	tool	to	
evaluate	the	performance	of	some	of	our	largest	suppliers.
Acting	Globally
We	look	to	expand	the	use	of	our	corporate	responsibility	“checklist”	to	
evaluate	the	performance	of	our	inter
-
national	operations	and	help	imple -
ment	our	corporate	responsibility	and	
workplace	culture	strategy	globally.	
Diversity
We	will	continue	to	enhance	the	ef -
fectiveness	of	our	supplier-diversity	
program	so	that	our	supplier	base	
accurately	reflects	the	communities	we	serve. Promoting Community Growth
Deborah	Lansdowne	and	her	company,	eKohs,	team	with	
Verizon	Business	in	the	DoD	Mentor-Protege	program.		
In	the	complex	world	of	federal	contracting,	she	likes	
knowing	that	Verizon’s	John	Marshall	has	her	back.
Verizon business and ekohs, a certified, woman-owned minority 
supplier in Virginia, have cultivated a strategic alliance under a  
Mentor-protégé program in the department of defense. the program 
helps small businesses transform themselves in order to perform as 
defense department prime contractors and subcontractors through 
relationships with a mentor.
ekohs provides it staffing and project-management services, including 
the provision of staff in iraq, to support Verizon’s contracts with the u.s. state department. Verizon business is also using ekohs’ expertise 
for our contract with the department of homeland security to help manage the u .s. Citizen and immigration service (usCis) data center.
as a mentor to ekohs, Verizon supports the development of ekohs’ leadership team by sponsoring training at the university of Virginia’s darden school of Management. Verizon leaders have also mentored ekohs’ managers by participating in strategic planning, strengthening 
operating practices, and including them in the procurement process.Verizon has also supported the growth and development of ibs CompreCore, a minority-owned company in new Jersey 
that resells copper wire, fiber optics and power-cable products. because of our relationship with ibs and cable manufacturer general Cable, ibs is now the sole 
provider of aerial service wire to Verizon in 28 states.
because aerial wire is a critical component of Verizon’s  
network, our suppliers must be able to deliver supplies quickly  
for emergency restoration of service. to ensure the timely and  
efficient delivery of such critical services and materials, ibs deploys  
a fully redundant it infrastructure.Verizon’s quality Management organization also has worked with ibs 
to help the company acquire tl9000 certification (an international 
quality standard for telecommunications products and services) for their relationship with general Cable. Manager-Sourcing 
Verizon CommunicationsVerizon is both customer and mentor to minority businessesVerizon	is	pioneering	the	development	and	use	of	
hybrid-electric	technology	in	service	vans	used	by	
our	FiOS	network	technicians—another	example	
of	how	we’re	using	technology	to	solve	social	and	environmental	challenges.	
 Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
proteCting the enVironMent
We are reducing our own energy use 
and driving demand for a new class of 
hybrid-electric commercial vehicles. Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006Keith	Peters
Services Technician 
FiOS Customer 
Operations, Maryland/DCIt’s our responsibility to minimize the 
negative impact of our operations by 
conserving energy, recycling  
and finding innovative technology  
solutions to environmental challenges. 
In addition, we strive to maximize the 
positive effects of broadband technolo -
gies which enable customers to reduce 
energy through telework, distance learn -
ing and e-commerce.
Energy Conservation
Verizon takes a disciplined approach 
to energy conservation. Our actions are 
guided by the following straightforward 
corporate policy that expressly charges 
us with responsible stewardship of our 
natural resources and requires that we 
implement systems, programs and gov -
ernance policies to ensure compliance:
“Verizon companies shall conduct 
business in an environmentally respon -
sible manner and provide employees with 
a safe and healthy workplace.” 
Verizon’s executive vice president of 
human resources directs our environ -
mental programs and reports regularly to 
corporate management and the board of 
directors. Environmental management is 
part of our corporate Code of Conduct, 
which applies to all employees.
In 2006 Verizon consumed 8.9 billion 
kilowatt hours of electricity and gener -
ated more than 7.1 million metric tons of 
carbon dioxide (CO2). Using a standard widely used to measure environmental 
impact, Verizon generated 81 metric tons 
of CO2 for every $1 million of revenue—an 
improvement over 2005 and almost eight 
times better than the national average of 
629 metric tons per $1 million of revenue. 
(See chart on page 26.) 
Verizon’s energy-saving initiatives also 
conserved more than 70,000 metric tons 
of greenhouse gases in 2006.
For example, we powered down and 
removed obsolete equipment in more 
than 400 facilities, cutting electricity use 
by 24 million kilowatt hours and reducing 
CO2 emissions by almost 18,000 metric 
tons for 2006. These savings will continue 
to accrue going forward. We expect 
this initiative will result in a permanent 
reduction of 46,400 metric tons of CO2 
emissions in 2006.
Similarly, the following management 
initiatives helped us reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions by more than 44,000 
metric tons in 2006 :
• Capital improvements;
• Conservation programs at existing 
buildings; and
• Targeted programs at high-consump -
tion facilities.
One indicator of the success of our 
disciplined attention to environmental 
stewardship is the relatively small number 
of citations we received in 2006 from 
regulatory agencies—54 notices of “non -
compliance” for the year, all of them for it takes poWer to run netWorks .	Verizon	is	a	global,	24x7	business,	
with	tens	of	thousands	of	vehicles,	millions	of	square	feet	of	real	estate	and	
significant	energy	requirements	to	install	and	maintain	the	communications	networks	on	which	the	world’s	economy	depends.	 Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006Verizon	produces	far	less	carbon	
dioxide	per	million	dollars	of	
revenue	than	the	national	average.		
The	widely-used	metric,	referred	to	as	Carbon	Intensity,	serves	as	
an	indicator	of	the	relative	impact	
on	the	environment	of	different	companies	and	industries.administrative items with no environmen -
tal impact. We continue to monitor all of 
our facilities for environmental compli -
ance and safe working conditions. 
When we do have issues or concerns, 
we move quickly to address them. For 
example, under a voluntary agree -
ment with the Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA), Verizon Wireless will audit 
some 20,000 facilities nationwide for 
compliance with regulations concern -
ing hazardous substances and similar 
rules. This audit is under way and will be 
completed no later than 2009.
Energy-saving Technology
Verizon has consistently been a leader 
in using innovative technology to improve 
energy efficiency and reduce green -
house-gas emissions. One of our major 
initiatives for the year involved our fleet of 
vehicles, one of the largest in America. In 
2006 we partnered with Enova, a pioneer 
of hybrid-electric-engine technology, to 
create a hybrid van of the size needed to 
meet our service requirements. 
Several of these new, energy-efficient 
vans are being used by FiOS technicians 
today, and we are working with manufac -turers to build on the successful launch 
of this pilot program. (See page 28 for 
more details.)
Here are other examples of our use of 
innovative technology:
• We are installing micro-turbines fueled 
by natural gas in two central offices in 
California. When fully operational, these 
systems will generate half the electricity 
for these facilities and reduce CO2 emis -
sions by approximately 3,700 metric  
tons a year.
• Two years ago we became the 
first communications company to use 
energy-efficient fuel cells to provide the 
electrical power for a major switching fa -
cility and office building. This technology 
continues to provide a reliable source 
of power for the more than 30,000 
customers served from this central office 
in Garden City, NY, as well as reduce 
our CO2 emissions by more than 8,000 
metric tons a year.
• We conducted a year-long trial of fuel 
cells to replace the lead-acid batteries we 
use for back-up power in our networks. 
The fuel cells, which use compressed 
hydrogen, proved they can provide 
power for 24 hours or more, longer than lead-acid batteries. As a result of this 
successful trial, we are identifying oppor -
tunities to deploy fuel cells nationwide at 
remote terminals prone to power outages 
caused by severe weather. We have ap -
proved two manufacturers’ products for 
use in our network.
• We have expanded our use of 
energy-efficient “Hypalon” roofs on build -
ings throughout our territory. Hypalon 
roofs—awarded an Energy Star rating by 
the EPA—have highly reflective surfaces 
and increased insulation that save energy. 
At year-end, Verizon had installed 430 of 
these roofs in sites in six western states. 
• We are also trialing the use of 
biodiesel fuel and lubricants made from 
biological, biodegradable material in our 
fiber-optic projects in Texas and  
New Jersey.
 
Waste Reduction and Recycling 
Verizon has an active program to 
recycle paper, electronics, beverage 
containers and other materials. In 2006 
Verizon recycled:
• More than 24,000 tons of paper and 
cardboard;
• 48,000 tons of telecommunications 
equipment and related material; and
• 29 tons of batteries collected through 
the Verizon Wireless HopeLine phone 
recycling program and other initiatives. 
The EPA has recognized our leader -
ship in waste reduction and recycling. In 
2006—for the second year in a row—the 
agency named Verizon Telecom its 
“WasteWise Very Large Business Partner 
of the Year.” 
This is the ninth WasteWise honor 
Verizon has received over the years, 
making us the only communications 
Working	with	the	Audubon	Society	and	U.S.	Fish	and	Wildlife	Service,	Verizon	embarked	on	a	10-year	project	to	restore	and	
protect	the	water,	native	animals,	and	plants	that	had	been	
disturbed	by	activities	prior	to	Verizon’s	purchase	of	its	operations	headquarters	facility	at	Basking	Ridge,	NJ. Protecting the Environment
it adds up to something big
at Verizon, we like to say that we’re always working for the customer, but we’re also working 
to minimize the harmful effects that our business can have on the environment. We estimate 
that our total energy conservation, waste prevention, and recycling efforts in 2006 reduced 
our greenhouse-gas emissions, on average, by 334,000 metric tons. that’s equivalent to:
776,744 barrels of oil 278,333 acres of pine  
or fir forests storing 
carbon for one year112,458 tons of waste 
recycled instead of 
landfilled72,294 passenger  
cars NOT driven  
for one year
2,738 acres of forest 
preserved from 
deforestation1,697 railcars of coal The power consumption 
of 42,875 householdsThe propane 
gas needed to fill 
13,916.667 cylinders 
used for home 
barbecues. Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006Supervisor,  
Fleet Operations, NSG 
– Fleet OperationsVerizon is pioneering the development and use of hybrid-electric 
technology in service vans used by our network technicians—
another example of how we’re using technology to solve social and 
environmental challenges. 
Verizon owns and operates one of the largest fleets of motor vehicles 
in the united states—a fleet that consumes more than 60 million gallons of fuel each year. in a year’s time, these vehicles generate more 
than 500,000 metric tons of Co
2. We had been looking for more fuel-efficient and environmentally friendly service vans, but none of the u .s. vehicle manufacturers 
produces hybrid vans in the class we need (vans in the 6,001- to 10,000-pound range). so, to lower those emissions, we partnered with hybrid-electric pioneer enova systems to create a van to meet 
the needs of the business and the environment.
the initial result: 13 retrofitted, gas-powered, general Motors vans 
with both electric and gas engines that work together to power the 
vehicle. We plan to test 10 vans in Maryland and three in texas. state-of-the-art hybrid vehicles. state-of-the-art fiber network.From	below	the	newest	addition	to	Verizon’s
fleet,	Supervisor	of	Fleet	Operations
Rich	Winters	points	out	hybrid-electric	
components	to	students	of	the	Applications	and	Research	Lab,	a	high	school	magnet	
program	in	transportation	and	energy	
technology	in	Howard	County,	MD.The	drop	in	paper	and	cardboard	
recycling	for	2006	is	associated	with	
the	closing	of	two	printing	plants	 	
(Des	Plaines,	IL	&	Los	Angeles,	CA)	early	in	the	year	that	were	part	of	
Verizon’s	former	U.S.	print	and	Internet	yellow	pages	directories	company,	now	
called	Idearc	Inc.
 Protecting the Environmentrecycling Cell phones helps fund hopeline®
 Number of 
Phones  
CollectedNumber of 
Phones  
RefurbishedNumber of 
Phones  
RecycledNumber of  
Phones Donated  
to SheltersCash Grants  
Donated from 
HopeLine Funds
00 722,070 n/a 139,042 11,573 $790,026
00 852,460 n/a 267,207 9,600 $748,647
00 909,396 669,396 242,669 16,156 $1,271,697
Verizon	Wireless	HopeLine	collects,	refurbishes	and	re-uses	used	cell	phones	to	provide	free	wireless	
phones	and	service	to	victims	of	domestic	violence.	Last	year,	Verizon	Wireless	collected	more	than	
900,000	cell	phones—up	7	percent	from	2005.	About	240,000	could	not	be	reused	and	were	disposed	of	
using	environmentally	sound	methods.	Many	of	the	phones	collected	in	2006	were	refurbished	and	put	back	into	service,	which	accounts	for	the	year-over-year	drop	in	the	number	of	phones	recycled.company to have won multiple EPA 
WasteWise awards.
We have a number of initiatives to 
recycle communications equipment and 
reduce paper use, many of them making 
use of information technology. 
• Through HopeLine, Verizon Wireless 
collects, refurbishes and re-uses cell 
phones to provide free phones 
and service to domestic-
violence victims. Last year we 
collected more than 900,000 cell 
phones, up 7 percent from 2005. 
Phones that cannot be re-used are 
disposed of in an environmentally 
responsible way.
• Verizon is one of 12 
founders of the U.S. “eTree” 
initiative. For every Verizon 
shareowner who agrees to 
receive electronic annual reports and 
proxy materials, as opposed to paper 
copies, Verizon plants a tree, through a partnership with American Forests. We 
estimate this program will reduce paper 
usage by seven tons a year.
• An increasing number of Verizon cus -
tomers pay bills online, in lieu of receiving 
paper bills. In 2006 we processed more 
than 70 million online payments, reducing 
paper usage by more than 400 tons and 
saving some 6,000 trees.
We also make “green” purchases 
where possible. Last year, nearly 30 
percent of our $10.6 million expenditures 
on office supplies went toward products 
with recycled content.
To learn more about our environmen -
tal programs, visit our Web site at  
www22.verizon.com/pages/environment. 
Also, customers who wish to sign  
up for online bills can register at  
www.verizon.com/paperfreebilling,  
or for Verizon Wireless bills at  
www.verizonwireless.com.
Protecting the Environment: 2007Energy	Reduction
Seek	additional	opportunities	to	
reduce	energy	consumption	including	
building	on	our	energy-reduction	 	
initiatives	and	trialing	alternative	 	
energy	sources	in	our	network,	 	
buildings	and	vehicles.
Hybrid	Vehicles
Work	with	vehicle	manufacturers	 	
to	identify	partners	that	can	help	improve	the	efficiency	of	our	fleet.
Recycling
Continue	our	equipment	and	material	
recycling	initiatives	to	help	minimize	
our	environmental	impact.
Environmental	Benefits
Quantify	the	environmental	benefits	 	
of	our	services	as	an	alternative	 	
to	travel,	and	educate	our	customers	 	
on	how	our	technologies	can	 	
help	them	minimize	their	impact	 	
on	the	environment.0 Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006In	2006,	the	Verizon	Foundation	began	merging	two	of	its	leading	
philanthropic	initiatives	to	create	a	powerful	new	platform	to	
support	education	and	literacy.	Meet	Verizon	Thinkfinity.org.	
Judith	Moog	of	the	Verizon	Foundation	shows	students	that	our	new	platform	is	much	more	than	the	sum	of	its	parts.
partnering With CoMMunities
Together, Verizon’s signature literacy and  
education initiatives create a powerful new 
platform for learning…Thinkfinity.org. Partnering with CommunitiesIn 2006, our commitment was  
evidenced by $69.4 million in 
Foundation grants to charitable and 
nonprofit agencies nationwide, includ -
ing $13.9 million to match contributions 
by Verizon employees and retirees. Our 
commitment was also felt close to home 
through the volunteer efforts of our 
employees and retirees who contributed 
$14.5 million to charities and nonprofits 
last year and volunteered more than 
600,000 hours of community service. 
We also demonstrated our commit -
ment by using technology to address 
the social issues that are critical to the 
success of our business and the well-
being of the communities we serve:  
education and literacy and family safety 
through domestic violence prevention.
To learn more about the Verizon 
Foundation, visit our Web site at  
http://foundation.verizon.com.
Thinkfinity.org
Our commitment to improving  
education and literacy has a name: 
Thinkfinity.org. In 2006 we brought 
together our innovative, technology-
based initiatives in literacy and K-12 
education into this single, comprehensive 
digital learning platform.
Thinkfinity, which means “endless 
possibilities for learning,” is built upon the 
merger of two highly acclaimed programs 
well-known to educators: the program 
formerly known as Verizon Marco Polo and the Verizon Literacy Network. 
Thinkfinity.org is designed to improve 
learning in traditional settings and outside 
the classroom by providing high-caliber 
content and professional development 
needed to improve student achievement—
anytime, anywhere, at no cost.
Thinkfinity.org provides more than 
55,000 authoritative educational and 
literacy resources for teachers, students 
and community programs, including 
standards-based K-12 lesson plans, 
student materials, interactive tools 
and Web site links. Thinkfinity.org also 
includes best-in-class literacy resources 
such as the Life Span Literacy Matrix—a 
first-ever tool for identifying, achieving 
and measuring literacy outcomes from 
early childhood through adulthood.
Thinkfinity.org material is free, non-
commercial, safe and authoritative, and 
is provided by a “dean’s list” of nonprofit 
educational and literacy organizations. the Verizon foundation has long been CoMMitted 	to	
“philanthropy	with	a	purpose”—using	our	financial,	human	and	technological	
resources	to	improve	the	quality	of	life	in	our	communities.		National Program 
Management
Verizon Foundation Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
Thinkfinity.orgThinkfinity.org 
Content  
Partners
Currently:
There are 6,000 public school districts with Thinkfinity-trained educators
55,000 standards-based K-12 resources have been created  
and approved by content partners
There is an average of 2.9 million user sessions per month 
92 percent of 146,000 educators who responded to surveys  
rate the search engine “helpful–very helpful”
236,000 educators have been trained to use Thinkfinity.org
The Thinkfinity.org Web site provides innovative tools and resources for educators and 
learners of all ages, including material provided by our content partners.
 
“ After a (Thinkfinity) training session, 
teachers invariably say that they 
feel revitalized to go back into the 
classroom because they now have 
a very powerful tool that they can 
utilize—and there is no cost to the 
school district.” 
Rusty Sinclair, Training Director
Texas Computer Education Association
“ We feel so fortunate to have access 
to the Verizon Literacy Network. 
As a nonprofit literacy organization 
that relies heavily upon volunteers 
to accomplish our mission, the 
VLN courses have proven to be an 
invaluable asset.” 
Heidi Fisher, Executive Director
Literacy Volunteers of Chippewa Valley (Wisconsin)
 Partnering with Communitiesfor Verizon’s Michael Malone,  
it all adds up to giving more 
Thinkfinity.org
In addition, Thinkfinity.org offers a 
comprehensive professional develop -
ment program that enables educators  
to incorporate the platform’s rich re -
sources into their instructional settings. 
A rollout network of select state and 
national education and literacy organi -
zations enables the broadest possible 
outreach to schools and community-
based programs. 
Thinkfinity.org is Verizon’s signature 
program for education and literacy. It 
supports lifelong learning by providing 
educators, students and citizens with 
powerful tools to successfully meet the 
global challenges of the 21st century.  
Our goal is to make it the most useful 
and trusted source for educational 
resources on the Internet. We are grati -
fied that, for the second year in a row, 
Thinkfinity.org was voted “favorite site for 
free materials” by the readers of Edutopia  
Magazine (April 2007). 
To learn more about our signature 
program, go to www.thinkfinity.org.
Beyond Thinkfinity.org, the Verizon 
Foundation supports initiatives that are 
advancing research and instructional 
practices to improve education and 
literacy. The following are just some of 
the examples: 
• The Foundation is funding a program 
at Loras College in Iowa that identifies 
and tests techniques to train pre-service 
teachers in effectively delivering  
literacy instruction.
• The Verizon Foundation’s second 
National Literacy Summit was held 
in October 2006 in partnership with 
the American Library Association, 
Georgetown University, the National 
Coalition for Literacy and ProLiteracy Worldwide. The goal of the summit was 
to provide research-based resources that 
identify “what works” in teaching literacy 
across the lifespan and to share best 
practices among literacy professionals. 
The Verizon Life Span Literacy Matrix 
was introduced at the summit, and is 
available online at www.thinkfinity.org.
Family Safety
Verizon’s philanthropy reaches out 
to families in communities across the 
country through our focus on domestic 
violence prevention.giving back to society comes naturally to Michael Malone, a solutions development manager 
for Verizon business, so being a Verizon Volunteer is a natural fit.
Malone has volunteered his time to tutor children in math in grades three to five for the last nine years at the thomas haley elementary school in irving, tX, spending one or two hours 
a week helping children struggling with mathematics.
“i recognized a long time ago that it’s important to give back to society,” said Malone, who 
recently celebrated his eighth year with Verizon. “since i have an engineering background, helping children improve their math skills seemed like the best help i could offer.”
for his volunteer efforts last year, he received the prestigious texas association of partners 
in education gold award in the category of “t exas top adult Volunteer.” 
“When i hear the kids say things like ‘My mom says i’m really good at math now,’ i feel like 
i’m really contributing something that’s important,” he said. “i feel like i’m in the right place. it’s amazing how just a few hours a week can make such a difference in the lives of children 
with so few resources.” 
Long a centerpiece of Verizon 
Wireless’s corporate responsibility 
efforts, domestic violence prevention 
is now one of the Verizon Foundation’s 
targeted social issues and a focus 
corporate-wide. In 2006 the Foundation 
contributed $5.1 million toward prevent -
ing domestic violence and engaging 
employees at all levels in the cause. 
The statistics offer a compelling 
reason to focus on this issue. Domestic 
violence is the greatest cause of injury to 
women between the ages of 15 and 44, 
and more than 20 percent of employed Senior Consultant, 
Solutions Development 
Verizon Business Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006Americans have been 
victims at some point 
in their lives, at an 
annual cost of $5.8 
billion in lost productivity.
 Verizon is no stranger to the effect 
of domestic violence on the workplace. 
In 2006 alone Verizon Wireless handled 
more than 100 incidents involving our 
employees, often working with law 
enforcement and advocacy groups. 
In some cases, Verizon Wireless has 
taken extraordinary measures to protect 
employees—in one case helping an 
employee file a police report and relocate 
to a job in another state.
Nationally, Verizon Wireless has 
led the corporate charge on this issue 
for more than a decade through the 
HopeLine program, which collects and 
recycles used cell phones. HopeLine 
supports the cause of domestic violence 
prevention in two ways:
	“	Contrary	to	some	misconceptions,	
domestic	violence	knows	no	
social	or	economic	boundaries;	
it	knows	no	racial	and	cultural	boundaries.	And	because	it	knows	
no	boundaries,	it	preys	on	both	the	
communities	where	we	do	business	
and	on	our	workforce.”	
	
       Denny Strigl  
Keynote Address  
National Domestic Violence Summit  
November 2006  
Basking Ridge, NJPresident and Chief 
Opererating Officer
Verizon Communications
• Providing 
domestic violence 
victims with safe 
and dependable 
communications services by using the 
proceeds of the sale of refurbished wire -
less phones to provide free cell phones 
and airtime; and,
• Contributing funds raised from cell 
phone recycling to awareness and pre -
vention programs.
Over the years, HopeLine has raised 
more than $10 million for the cause of 
domestic violence prevention and dis -
tributed more than 40,000 phones with 
free airtime. In 2006 HopeLine donations 
amounted to $1.27 million—a 70 percent 
increase from 2005 and the highest 
in the history of the program. These 
proceeds went to support nearly 300 
local organizations across the country. 
Also in 2006 we enlisted Wal-Mart to join 
our Hopeline efforts; cell phone drives were held at more than 2,000 store loca -
tions nationwide. 
Verizon is committed to being among 
the national corporate leaders on the 
issue of domestic violence prevention. 
In November 2006, we sponsored our 
first National Domestic Violence Summit, 
bringing together other corporations and 
leading nonprofits to discuss the chal -
lenges and possible solutions.
Across the company, Verizon  
employees have embraced this cause 
wholeheartedly. For example, during 
National Domestic Violence Awareness 
Month in October 2006, Verizon 
partnered with Dress for Success to 
collect job-appropriate clothing, shoes 
and accessories for victims of domestic 
violence to wear for interviews and 
when returning to work. Our employ -
ees donated more than 6,000 items of 
clothing, valued at more than $100,000.
 Partnering with Communities
Verizon Volunteers  
at the heart of our communitiestim Williams, an account manager with 
Verizon enhanced Communities in tampa,  
is one of those volunteers who make 
Verizon’s workforce such an asset to the 
community. his concern for young people 
led him to volunteer his time helping abused, 
neglected and otherwise at-risk children.
through his volunteer efforts and the 
company’s Volunteer incentive program, 
which recognizes employees’ contribution 
of time and talent to nonprofit organizations SPEC Account 
Management
Verizon Enhanced 
Communities
Thinkfinity.org
We	are	expanding	the	scope	and	
reach	of	Thinkfinity.org	beyond	the	
classroom,	introducing	learning	
resources	for	students	and	parents	to	use	at	home	and	providing	resources	
to	serve	a	broad	array	of	community-
based	organizations—from	formal	
after-school	programs	to	programs	
for	low-literacy	and	at-risk	students.	
Family	Safety
We	will	continue	to	expand	our	sup -
port	for	technology-based	programs	that	promote	awareness	and	preven
-
tion	of	domestic	violence.
Employee	Volunteerism
Our	employees	and	retirees	are	a	powerful	force	for	positive	change,	and	we	will	continue	to	encourage	
and	support	their	volunteer	efforts	in	
communities	across	the	country.	
Partnering with Communities: 2007located in their community or surrounding 
areas, Verizon is providing a grant of $750 to 
florida’s “guardian ad litem” program. 
“i believe it’s important to give back to the 
community,” Williams said. “i’d do it no matter what, but i think it’s tremendous that 
Verizon will match my commitment with a contribution. it makes me proud to work 
for the company and for the principles of 
community service it encourages.”
Finance Specialist
Verizon Businessas a french-speaking native of niger, in West africa, baraka dan-azoumi knows 
firsthand how important it is to master english as a second language in the united states. 
that’s why this Verizon finance specialist 
based in irving, tX, donates her time 
and talents to Debes Creer en Ti/Believe 
in Yourself —a program focused on 
educating immigrants in english as a 
second language and computer literacy. 
baraka serves on the board of advisors 
for the program that has helped more 
than 2,000 students. Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
aWards and reCognition
In 2006 Verizon earned more than  
50 awards and accolades from a  
wide range of organizations.• The	U.S.	Environmental	Protection	
Agency	 named Verizon the winner of its 
“WasteWise Very Large Business Partner 
of the Year” award for its comprehensive 
waste management and “green” 
purchasing programs.
• Working Mother  magazine 
put Verizon on the list of 100 Best 
Companies for its continuing 
commitment to working mothers  
and family-friendly benefits and  
policies. Verizon and Verizon Wireless 
were the only telecom and wireless 
companies selected.
• Black Engineer and Information 
Technology  magazine selected Verizon 
as a Top Supporter of Historically Black 
Colleges.
• The Women’s	Business	Enterprise	
National	Council  honored Verizon for 
providing women-owned businesses 
with equal opportunities to compete for 
contracts to supply Verizon with goods 
and services.
• Institutional Investor  ranked Verizon 
No. 1 on the list of “America’s Most 
Shareholder-Friendly Companies” for 
2006. Verizon is No. 2 in telecom in a 
related list that shows which companies 
are best at investor relations.
• Business Week  named Verizon “One 
of the Best Places to Launch a Career,” 
noting that Verizon is one of the top 
employers for new college graduates.  • Latin Business  magazine named 
Verizon to its annual Corporate Diversity 
Honor Roll promoting opportunities 
on behalf of the nation’s minority 
communities, particularly Hispanics.
• Black Enterprise  magazine  
named Verizon as one the “40 Best 
Companies for Diversity” surveying 
more than 1,000 of the country’s largest 
publicly traded companies and more 
than 50 leading global companies with 
significant U.S. operations.
• The	Alliance	for	Workplace	
Excellence  named Verizon Wireless  
a “Health & Wellness Trailblazer,” for  
its commitment to employee health  
and fitness.
• LATINA Style named Verizon as one 
of the country’s top 50 employers for 
Hispanic women.
• Hispanic Business  magazine ranked 
Verizon No. 7 in a list of top companies 
for Hispanics.
• Working Mother  magazine  named 
Verizon among the best companies for 
women of color.
• The Association	for	Women	
in	Communications  bestowed its 
prestigious 2006 Clarion Award, which 
honors excellence in clear, concise 
communications, on Verizon’s newsletter 
for customers with disabilities,  
Forward Access.  • American	Advertising	Federation	
honored Verizon with a Mosaic Award 
and a Multicultural Media Usage 
Award in recognition of the company’s 
multicultural advertising campaigns.
• Frost	&	Sullivan,  a leading industry 
analyst firm, honored Verizon Business 
for the company’s expansive global 
portfolio of managed network and 
information technology services, as well 
as for the personalized customer care 
offered by more than 6,500 technicians 
and network engineers.
• The	J.D.	Power	and	Associates’	
annual survey of small, mid-size and 
large-business customers gave Verizon 
Business top honors for customer 
satisfaction among six companies in the 
large-business category.
• Forrester	Research	 rated Verizon a 
leader among Internet service providers 
(ISPs) serving consumers based upon 
its current service offerings, market 
presence and strategies.
• The J.D.	Power	and	Associates’  
2006 Business Wireless Satisfaction 
Study ranked Verizon Wireless highest  
in a survey of 2,725 businesses 
regarding overall customer satisfaction. 
Verizon Wireless ranked higher than 
other large wireless carriers in call  
quality, performance and reliability,  
and brand image.
 Awards and RecognitionfroM enVironMental leadership to the no. 1 spot 	on	DiversityInc 	magazine’s	“Top	
50	Companies	for	Diversity”	list	for	2006,	numerous	awards	recognize	Verizon	as	a	company	that	
develops	leaders	and	innovators,	embraces	diversity,	raises	awareness	about	domestic	violence,	promotes	education	and	literacy,	and	provides	opportunities	for	its	employees.		 Verizon Corporate Responsibility Report 2006
operating statistics
Verizon Wireless
U.S. Wireless Customers 59.1 million 
U.S. Markets Served with Wireless Assets 49 of top 50
States with Wireless Presence 49 + D.C.
Verizon Telecom
U.S. Wireline Access Lines 45.1 million
Wireline Broadband Connections 7.0 million
Verizon Business
International Presence 140+ countries
Customer Relationships 94 percent of Fortune 500
Total Employees 242,330 (97,623 union represented)financial statistics
(as of year-end 2006)
2006 Operating Revenues $88.1 billion
2006 Net Income, Before Special Items $7.4 billion 
2006 Capital Expenditures $17.1 billion 
Shareowners 2.5 million
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ), headquartered in New York, is a leader in delivering broadband and other wireline and wireless 
communication innovations to mass market, business, government and wholesale customers.  Verizon Wireless operates America’s most 
reliable wireless network, serving more than 59 million customers nationwide.  Verizon’s Wireline operations include Verizon Business, which 
operates one of the most expansive wholly owned global IP networks, and Verizon Telecom, which is deploying the nation’s most advanced 
fiber-optic network to deliver the benefits of converged communications, information and entertainment services to customers.  A Dow 30 
company, Verizon has a diverse workforce of approximately 242,000 and in 2006 generated consolidated operating revenues of more than 
$88 billion.  For more information, visit www.verizon.com.BKSFOLKJBKQ>I?BKBCFQPPQ>QBJBKQ
7FSJ[POTBWFEUIFGPMMPXJOHSFTPVSDFTCZVTJOH/FX-FBG4BLVSB
NBOVGBDUVSFEXJUI(SFFOFDFSUJGJFESFOFXBCMFFOFSHZ
QPTUDPOTVNFSXBTUFBOEQSPDFTTFEDIMPSJOFGSFF
$BMDVMBUJPOTCBTFEPOSFTFBSDICZ&OWJSPONFOUBM%FGFOTFBOEPUIFSNFNCFSTPGUIF1BQFS5BTL'PSDF
/FX-FBG1BQFSXXXOFXMFBGQBQFSDPNUSFFT

GVMMZHSPXO

HBMMPOT
NJMMJPO#UV

QPVOET

QPVOETXBUFS FOFSHZ TPMJEXBTUFHSFFOIPVTF HBTFT
© 2007 Verizon. All Rights Reserved.verizon.com/responsibility