2011  
CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY 
SUPPLEMENT
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com1
FROM THE CHAIRMAN  3
WHO WE ARE  4
Ethics and Governance                                                                                                                  4
Our Conduct                                                                                                                   4
Leadership                                                                                                                      4
Ethics & Compliance                                                                                                       5
Engaging Stakeholders                                                                                                    6
Political Contributions and Transparency                                                                         6
WHO WE ARE 7
Empowering Employees                                                                                                               7
Career Development                                                                                                       7
Benefits                                                                                                                         8
Diversity                                                                                                                         9
Communications                                                                                                          10
Safety                                                                                                                          12
Encouraging Engagement in the Community                                                                  13
Community Impact                                                                                                                       14
Verizon Foundation                                                                                                      14
Volunteers                                                                                                                   16
A Pro Bono Program Built to Last                                                                                  17
Public Service Announcements (PSAs)                                                                          18
Supplier Diversity                                                                                                        19
FOCUS AREAS 22
Accessibility                                                                                                                                     22
Enhanced Accessibility for FiOS TV                                                                              23
Products Tailored to Special Needs                                                                               23
Reaffirming our Commitment to Accessibility                                                              23
Digital Safety                                                                                                                                  24
Online Safety                                                                                                                24
Mobile App Ratings                                                                                                      24
Safety Features Second to None                                                                                  25
Policies that Protect                                                                                                    25
Privacy                                                                                                                         252011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com
2
Education                                                                                                                                           27
Mobile Learning Devices in the Classroom                                                                    27
Making Education Accessible to  
Those Who Need it Most                                                                                               28
Energy Management                                                                                                                   30
Envision Charlotte                                                                                                       30
Verizon Wireless Harmonizing with Consert                                                                  31
Health Care                                                                                                                                        32
Housecalls on Y our Smartphone                                                                                    32
Removing Barriers to Rural Health Care                                                                        33
Domestic Violence Prevention                                                                                     34
Sustainability                                                                                                                                  35
Clear Goals, Backed by Solid Metrics                                                                            35
Processes                                                                                                                    36
Products                                                                                                                      38
People                                                                                                                         38
We Pushed for Energy Efficiency and  
Pulled Our Industry Forward                                                                                         39
Verizon HopeLine Continues Setting Records                                                               40
Conflict Minerals                                                                                                          40
PROFILE & PERFORMANCE 42
Award and Honors                                                                                                                         42
Corporate Citizenship                                                                                                  42
Diversity | Workplace | Innovation                                                                                 42
Environmental | Social | Governance                                                                             43
Company Profile                                                                                                                            44
Employee Profile                                                                                                                            45
Independent Review                                                                                                                    46
Key Performance Indicators                                                                                                    49
VERIZON CREDO  542011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com
3
FROM THE CHAIRMAN 
SHARED SUCCESS: A TRUER CONNECTION  
BETWEEN BUSINESS AND SOCIAL NEEDS
Verizon has always been a company built for the long term. We build networks that provide 
an infrastructure for economic growth. Our products are the glue for the relationships 
that make society possible. We invest in the human and intellectual capital that keeps our 
company strong and competitive, and throughout our long history our employees have 
contributed to the public good of the communities we serve.
Now a new technological era is creating fresh opportunities for us to deepen the connection 
between our business interests and those of the society. By reinventing our networks around 
mobility, broadband and global connectivity, we are expanding the innovative capacity of the 
economy, making possible entirely new business models and creative solutions for addressing 
the world’s unmet environmental and social needs. We can now solve problems in ways not 
possible before, bringing the transformational power of technology and innovation to the 
most fundamental needs of our customers and communities.
This is, at its heart, a growth strategy — one that opens new markets for Verizon and creates 
sustainable long-term value for shareowners as well as stakeholders. In 2011, we formalized 
this strategy for creating business and social value under the mantle of “Shared Success,” a 
term that derives from the Verizon Credo ( see page 5 4).
Our Shared Success strategy has three broad goals, articulated below. In 2012, we are 
focused on deploying energy and health care solutions that generate new revenue for Verizon 
while increasing energy efficiency and improving health care quality for our customers and 
communities. We will develop measures to track both the business and social value of our 
efforts. With respect to business value, we will track market penetration and revenue growth 
in the energy and health care sectors. For social value, we will develop measures for increased 
awareness and efficiency for our energy solutions and for increased access, reduced costs 
and improved care in the health care sector.
Through this broad and deep commitment to Shared Success, we aim to integrate this 
approach throughout our business, bringing this ethic to bear on all our decisions — from 
the products we sell to the markets we enter, from the technology we develop to the grants 
we make in the community — in the belief that creating a healthy, sustainable society is the 
surest path to creating a healthy, sustainable business.
“Our capabilities and 
technology have 
enormous potential to 
make the world a better 
place as we use these 
tools to find solutions to 
issues like health care, 
sustainability, smart 
grids, and the like. We’re 
working hard to bring 
these efforts into the 
mainstream and leverage 
what we do best. ”
Lowell McAdam
Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer
Verizon Communications
SHARED SOLUTIONS SHARED SERVICE / PHILANTHROPY SHARED SUSTAINABILITY
Leverage the transformational power of our 
networks, technology and people to create 
long-term business value while addressing 
critical unmet needs of our communities in 
smart energy and health care.Align our philanthropic assets domestically 
and internationally to deliver shared solutions 
in education, health care and sustainability to 
our communities.Lead our industry by minimizing the 
environmental impact of our operations and 
supply chain and by facilitating the transition 
to a low-carbon, sustainable economy.2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com4
WHO WE ARE 
ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE
We operate our business with the highest level of integrity and 
accountability, using the Verizon Credo to provide clear direction 
for our actions every day 
Our Conduct
Given our global reach and extensive supply chain, it is imperative that we conduct business 
responsibly and ethically, maintaining our reputation for trust and responsibility wherever 
we operate.
To ensure this behavior, all employees are required to adhere to the Verizon Code of Conduct . 
It provides guidelines on gifts and entertainment, Internet practices, conflicts of interest 
and confidentiality — with an emphasis on protecting the information that our customers, 
business partners and fellow employees have entrusted to our care.
The relationship with our suppliers is also based on the highest standards of ethical conduct, 
and our Supplier Code of Conduct  outlines Verizon’s expectations of its vendors to conduct 
business with integrity and respect.
We’ve made the Conflict of Interest Questionnaire (COIQ) administered to our leadership 
team and our Supply Chain Services organization an annual process, which addresses all 
identified or potential conflicts.
Our Human Rights statement  articulates our respect for the broad principles in the UN Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, many of which can be applied to how global businesses can 
build good relationships around the world and work successfully among different customs and 
cultures. Our commitment to promote human rights values is consistent with our dedication 
to respect employees, value customers, strengthen communities, protect the environment 
and engage with stakeholders to make the right decisions for the future of our business.
Leadership
Our Shared Success Council provides direction and oversight for corporate responsibility 
activities across the company. It establishes benchmarks and goals, assigns and enforces 
accountability and tracks results for corporate responsibility initiatives in six working committees: 
Accessible Products & Services, Environmental Sustainability, Online Safety, Wireless Safety, 
Human Rights and Supply Chain.
WHO WE  ARE  / ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE 5
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comThe council reports directly to Verizon’s chairman and chief executive officer and is overseen 
by the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee of the Verizon Board of Directors. 
The council is chaired by Kathy Brown, senior vice president in our Public Affairs, Policy 
& Communications organization, and includes senior leaders from all operating units and 
several corporate officers.
Ethics & Compliance
Verizon provides a robust lineup of resources to help employees raise questions or concerns 
and get information about ethical matters, policies, procedures and applicable laws.
The resources include:
■■The Verizon Ethics and EEO GuideLine available 24 hours-a-day at 800-856-1885 
(U.S.), (+) 800-0-624-0007 (International) or online at verizonguideline.com  and the 
Verizon Wireless Compliance Guideline available 24 hours-a-day at 800-488-7900 or 
online at verizonwirelessguideline.com .
■■A Security Control Center operated by Verizon’s Security organization which 
employees can reach 24-hours-a-day (800-997-3287) to report or inquire about 
issues ranging from international cyber-security and legal compliance. 
■■A reporting/inquiry channel for accounting matters managed by Verizon’s Internal 
Audit group. ( accountingcomplaints@verizon.com )
■■Environmental and Safety Hotlines for reporting emergencies, arranging for  
waste disposal or getting on-site help from the company’s environmental and  
safety specialists (Wireline, including international, 800-386-9639 and Wireless, 
800-488-7900).
To help employees understand how to safeguard Verizon confidential and sensitive information, 
management employees are required to complete on-line training covering safeguarding 
privacy and confidential information. 
There is zero tolerance at Verizon for unethical business practices such as bribery. Verizon 
instructs its employees to avoid even the appearance of improper influence. New anti-
corruption compliance training has been implemented to provide guidance and practical 
examples to help employees understand and comply with various anti-bribery laws, including 
the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, both of which apply to Verizon 
employees around the world.WHO WE  ARE  / ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE 6
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comEngaging Stakeholders
We maintain an open, continual dialogue with the wide range of people — consumers, 
seniors, educators, elected officials, law enforcement, minorities, rural constituents, veterans 
and others — who are important to our business. Their opinions and feedback are essential 
because they provide a valuable view of ourselves and allow us to make many business 
decisions “from the outside in.”
Our long-standing Consumer Advisory Board, made up of leading advocates from across 
the country, meets three times a year and delivers an unfiltered view of business and social 
issues. Their opinions play an important role in the development and eventual sale of many 
of our products and services.
We generate multiple discussions through our website and the use of social media. We 
expanded our participation in social media channels to include Twitter.
As part of our stakeholder outreach, we use our Consumer and Sustainability Roundtables 
to educate consumers and environmental groups on our strategies and to solicit their 
recommendations. Both of these forums provide us with invaluable intelligence that not 
only helps us improve the effectiveness of the solutions we offer our customers, but also the 
environmental performance of our business. 
Political Contributions and Transparency
We advocate public policies that benefit our customers and our employees, and will enable 
us to compete fairly and freely in the marketplace. Political contributions are one way we 
support the democratic electoral process and participate in the policy dialogue.
Verizon is affected by a wide variety of government policies — from telecommunications 
regulation to taxation to health care and more — that affect the business climate in which we 
operate. Our employees have established political action committees (PACs) at the federal level 
and in 25 states. These PACs allow employees to pool their resources to support candidates 
for office who generally support the public policies our employees advocate.
All our PAC and corporate political contributions are updated twice a year.
The contribution process is overseen by the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee of 
our Board of Directors, which receives a comprehensive report and briefing on these activities 
annually. This transparency about our political spending is in keeping with our commitment 
to good corporate governance and a further sign of our responsiveness to the interests 
of our shareowners. Get the Political Contributions Report at responsibility.verizon.com/  
political-contributions .2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com7
WHO WE ARE
EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES
Our commitment to employees includes instilling a culture that 
offers challenging work, the opportunity to build a great career, 
and an environment that respects individuality 
Career Development
Verizon is committed to building a business as good as our global wireline and wireless 
networks. We provide employees with the training and development they need to keep pace 
in an age of rapidly changing technology. Among the best in corporate America, our training 
programs focus on long-term career development versus short-term roles and responsibilities.
VZLEARN
Working smarter, providing innovative customer solutions, and driving business imperatives 
are what Verizon needs to compete in the global marketplace. Verizon invests heavily in our 
people and our learning management system. 
Last year we invested nearly $300 million in training, offering more than 13,000 course titles in 
a variety of formats, from collaborative learning in a classroom to self-directed learning online. 
In total, Verizon employees completed 8.7 million hours of training in 2011 — equivalent to 
an average of 44 hours per employee. In three years alone, Verizon employees have completed 
more than 30 million hours of training. 
TUITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Our Tuition Assistance Program helps employees enhance their skills, or develop new ones, 
by funding studies in their job-related fields. Last year, more than 27,000 employees across 
the company participated in the program, which provides up to $8,000 a year.EMPLOYEE TRAINING
(average annual training hours per employee)
2009 51.7
2010 47.8
2011 44.1VERIZON TUITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
Y ear Participants Expenditures 
2009 31,985 $107M
2010 31,741 $114M
2011 27,232 $127M
WHO WE  ARE  / EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES 8
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comBenefits
Verizon employees receive competitive benefits, along with many programs and initiatives 
tailored to meet the specific needs of individuals and families, as well as the special needs of 
those employees who serve in the military.
COMPENSATION
In our performance-based culture, we provide competitive salaries and wages that are among 
the best in our industry and the markets we serve. In addition, our annual incentive bonuses 
are based on individual and company performance. Our savings plan (401k) allows employees 
to save for their future, and the company offers a generous match — up to 6 percent of 
an employee’s salary — as well as a year-end supplement to the savings plan based on the 
company’s performance.
HEAL TH & WELLNESS
Nearly 800,000 employees, retirees and their dependents received $3.55 billion in health 
care benefits in 2011. 
Every day, employees are empowered to proactively manage their health and wellness. Fueled 
by our “Be Well, Work Well” programs, employees receive practical education on the benefits 
of healthier diets, moving more and no tobacco use. Our “Future Moms Program” provides 
maternity counseling, health education and benefits management for expectant mothers. 
In addition, the company offers many preventive and early detection services — including 
biometrics and mammography screenings — many of which are on-site and free to employees. 
To help our employees stay fit, we provide access to 45 on-site Health & Wellness Centers 
nationwide for $15 a month. For employees at work sites without a center, we provide 
discounted memberships at more than 10,000 health clubs across the United States.
WORK/LIFE BALANCE
We understand that employees have lives outside the company that requires a balance between 
those demands and their work. That’s why we give our employees a choice of flexible work 
arrangements such as flex-time and telework, as appropriate to the needs of the business.
Sometimes employees face personal challenges with issues related to caring for children or 
adults, or health and wellness issues that affect their ability to work. Our comprehensive 
Employee Assistance Program is a valuable resource that can connect employees with 
professional assistance, spanning child services, elder care services, adoption assistance, in-
care social support and many other family services.
For new parents, we provide the “Gradual Return to Work Program,” allowing employees 
returning from childbirth or child-adoption leaves to maintain their benefits coverage while WHO WE  ARE  / EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES 9
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comworking a reduced schedule. For employees who choose to adopt, Verizon will reimburse 
them up to $10,000 for each adopted child for expenses such as legal fees and travel.
Verizon’s employee discount program offers employees an opportunity to take advantage 
of product and service discounts offered by various businesses in the areas of automobiles, 
electronics, financial services, health/wellness, travel, and other services.
SUPPORT FOR VETERANS
Veterans and active service men and women bring unique skills to their work as Verizon 
employees, lending their focus, perseverance and leadership to the job of serving our customers. 
Over the past decade, nearly 1650 employees have been called up to active duty, and Verizon 
has been there to provide benefits and protect their employment.
To support and retain these valuable employees, Verizon pays the difference between an 
employee’s military pay and their Verizon pay for up to 3 years, with no interruption of health 
benefits for their dependents. In addition, we offer programs to assist employees with finding 
work at Verizon locations that are close to a spouse on active duty.
Last year Verizon partnered with 10 other large companies in a program called the “100,000 
Jobs Mission,” which aims to collectively hire 100,000 military members leaving active duty 
service and other veterans by the end of 2020. In addition, Verizon is one of 25 large U.S. 
companies on the Veterans Employment Advisory Council, which drives towards an increase 
in employment opportunities for military spouses, reservists and disabled veterans. Verizon 
employs nearly 12,000 veterans and hired 541 veterans in 2011.
Verizon understands that some men and women will leave the military facing difficult challenges 
ahead. Our attorneys provide pro bono legal assistance to help veterans injured in combat 
or other hazardous duty receive the benefits they deserve. Through the American Corporate 
Partners program, a number of our employees serve as mentors to men and women who 
are leaving military service.
Verizon is the major sponsor of the USO lounges at the Washington, D.C. area and Baltimore 
airports, where men and women in the military can call anywhere in the world for free. And, 
through the USO’s “United Through Reading” program, troops deployed from Baltimore 
Washington International Airport can record themselves reading a book and have the DVD 
sent to their children.
Diversity
Our Credo explicitly states that, “We embrace diversity and personal development not only 
because it’s the right thing to do, but also because it’s smart business.” Having employees 
with diverse backgrounds and experiences makes us more innovative and helps us meet the 
needs of our increasingly diverse customers. We measure our progress, and we hold our 
executives accountable for promoting diversity within their organizations. WHO WE  ARE  / EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES 10
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comWe strive to create an inclusive, performance-driven culture in which all of our employees 
around the world have opportunities to contribute and grow. 
Verizon provides equal opportunity to all persons, without regard to race, color, religion, 
gender, sexual orientation, age, national origin, disability, military status, veteran status, 
marital status, citizenship status or any other protected category under applicable laws. In all 
company business, we use facilities, sponsor events or maintain memberships only at those 
businesses or organizations that do not have exclusionary membership practices.
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
Verizon has 10 employee resource groups representing a broad range of diversity. Each group 
provides opportunities for professional and personal growth through mentoring, community 
service, seminars and conferences. The groups include:
■■Asian Pacific Employees for Excellence
■■Consortium of Information and Telecommunications Executives
■■Disabilities Issues Awareness Leaders
■■Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender Employees of Verizon and their Allies
■■Hispanic Support Organization
■■National Jewish Cultural Resource Group
■■Native American People of Verizon
■■South-Asian Professionals Inspiring Corporate Excellence
■■Veterans Advisory Board of Verizon
■■Women’s Association of Verizon Employees
Communications
Our employees know how the company works better than anyone, and we encourage them 
to speak up and help us improve how we serve customers.
EMPLOYEE SURVEYS
We conduct census employee opinion surveys every two years. In 2010, more than 100,000 
employees responded, indicating they viewed the company favorably in areas such as integrity, 
respect and overall reputation. In addition, our 2010 survey showed that we surpassed 
industry benchmarks on key culture/values, pay and benefits, corporate citizenship and overall 
satisfaction. In 2012, we will again survey our nearly 200,000 employees across the globe 
on engagement, performance and our values and Credo culture.WHO WE  ARE  / EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES 11
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comIn addition to our biennial employee survey, we conduct several “Pulse” surveys each year 
on a number of subjects that are designed to measure the internal health and climate of the 
organization.
The Performance Agreement Pulse Survey is an integral part of ensuring that all employees 
understand how their personal efforts impact the business. In 2011, 94 percent of employees 
responded that they had a performance discussion with their manager and 91 percent indicated 
that they understood how their performance objectives align with the business imperatives. 
Our Green Pulse Survey provided guidance on making sustainability a critical component of 
our culture. On the statement “Verizon enables employees to be green at work,” favorable 
responses rose 7 percent year over year (increasing from 61 percent favorable in 2010 to 68 
percent favorable in the 2011 Pulse survey).
IDEAS@WORK
Employees have lots of ideas about how to build a better business. Over the years, many 
employee ideas have helped the company earn valuable patents — from designing a more 
efficient shovel to developing innovative technologies that keep us at the forefront of our 
industry.
Recognizing that employees represent one of our most valuable intellectual assets, we established 
the “Ideas@Work” tool. It’s a system that’s easy for every employee to use, regardless of their 
work location, business group or role within the company. It’s an opportunity to tap into 
the talent and expertise of our people and move the business forward. To date, employees 
have submitted more than 2,000 ideas — all of which are being examined with an eye on 
process improvement
ENGAGING EMPLOYEES
Our Credo and culture allows every employee to express a view or idea to anyone in the 
company, regardless of position. That openness fosters a constructive dialogue and encourages 
constructive dissent.
Our senior leaders conduct regular “town hall” meetings and operations reviews in organizations 
across the company, and Lowell McAdam, our chairman, president and CEO, conducts 
quarterly webcasts that are broadcast across the company. He shares his thoughts about the 
company’s performance, recognizes individual and team achievements during the quarter, 
focuses on our strategic goals and engages employees in lively Q&A sessions.
Our Web-based communication tools provide employees with up-to-date information about 
the business and our industry. They include: 
■■VZWeb, our personalized, internal website that’s updated daily with news and 
information to help employees with their work 
WHO WE  ARE  / EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES 12
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com■■VZTV, our advanced video studio
■■MyVZNews, a newsletter delivered via email that covers corporate wide information
■■The About You website, which covers workplace and wellness issues
■■MyNetWork, a set of employee electronic tools including blogs, wikis and forums, 
that facilitate internal online discussion and collaboration
Safety
The safety of all employees is paramount and drives how we work every day. Last year we 
launched Be SAFE, a behavior-based safety initiative that promotes a shared accountability for 
safety in the workplace, sets high standards for working safely — every day, provides active 
reinforcing feedback/coaching and corrective intervention when needed.
We conducted extensive internal and external audits across our domestic and international 
facilities to improve safety in our workplaces and ensure compliance with global and state 
regulations. 
In 2011, Verizon’s Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) recordable case rates 
decreased by approximately 20 percent for the second year in a row, and lost work day case 
rates decreased by approximately 14 percent from the prior year. 
Our Occupational Injuries and Illnesses rate (1.44) and Lost Workday Rate (0.83) continue to 
be significantly below the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ telecommunications industry standards 
of 2.20 and 1.20, respectively. 
VERIZON INCIDENT RATES
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.54.0
1.44
0.833.68
1.183.53
2.20
1.81
0.973.47
Occupational Injuries &  
Illnesses Rate  
(per 100 employees)Lost Workday  
Rate  
(per 100 employees)Motor Vehicle  
Accident Rate  
(per 100 vehicles)2011
2010
2009WHO WE  ARE  / EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES 13
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comLABOR RELATIONS
Verizon has a long history of working with the Communications Workers of America (CWA) 
and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) – the two main unions that 
represent nearly 58,000 employees. These employees are covered by 58 collective bargaining 
agreements which are usually negotiated over three year cycles. Negotiations over 27 of 
these contracts in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic areas have been on-going since June 2011.
Although the subjects being negotiated are significant in terms of scope and cost, the Company 
is committed to meeting and working through the issues in order to reach agreements that 
better positions us to compete in the markets we serve.
Encouraging Engagement in the Community
We encourage sustained community service through matching gifts and employee volunteer 
grants via the Verizon Foundation — more than $165 million over the years. More than 
45,000 community nonprofits have benefitted from our employees’ efforts over the years, 
for a total of 6.2 million hours of volunteer service since 2000.
■■Volunteer Grants:  Employees who log 50 or more volunteer hours with their 
favorite nonprofit or school can apply for a $750 grant for that group. 
■■Matching Gifts to Nonprofits:  The Verizon Foundation matches employee 
donations dollar for dollar, up to $1,000 per year to qualified nonprofits.
■■Matching Gifts to Colleges and Universities: The Verizon Foundation also matches 
employee and retiree donations up to $5,000 per year to accredited colleges and 
universities. 
■■Team Fundraisers:  Teams of 10 or more employees who collectively raise funds 
for a qualified nonprofit or public school can apply for a grant that matches their 
fundraising, up to $10,000 per event location. 
■■Disaster Relief and Recovery Programs:  The Verizon Foundation matches 
employee donations to qualifying disaster relief organizations during times of 
natural disaster and other events.
■■ Cause Collection Campaigns: Verizon employees conduct campaigns to collectively 
contribute time and dollars to causes throughout the year.
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com
14
WHO WE ARE
COMMUNITY IMPACT
We’re using philanthropy to plant the seeds of innovation that 
will spread the benefits of technology broadly across society 
Verizon Foundation 
The Verizon Foundation mobilizes our philanthropic resources to address the needs of the 
communities we serve around the world. The focus is on using our technology to solve 
critical social issues in the areas of education, sustainability and health care. Increasingly, the 
Foundation serves as a laboratory for social innovation — supporting new approaches to 
community problems, breaking down barriers of cost and accessibility and helping to bring 
these solutions to underserved populations. 
 
Over the last 10 years, the Foundation has invested approximately $650 million in our 
communities, and our employees have donated more than 6.2 million volunteer hours to 
improve the communities where we work and live. In 2011, the Foundation awarded $66 
million in grants and employees volunteered more than 670,000 hours.
VERIZON FOUNDATION 2011 PHILANTHROPIC INVESTMENTS
Grant Areas $ in millions
Education & Literacy $26
Volunteerism (Including Matching Gifts) $17
Civic & Community Support $9
Domestic Violence Prevention $10
Health Care & Accessibility $3
Internet Safety $ 1                                            
Total Philanthropic Investment $66M
Our signature causes and strategic focus areas for 2012 are:
■■Education: Provide comprehensive support to schools and community organizations 
by aligning our education philanthropy with core company strengths — network, 
content, devices — to create digital classrooms with high student achievement in 
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) subjects. 
■■Health Care: Deliver innovative health care solutions through technology-based 
programs in Mobile Health, Remote Disease Management and Virtual Care, 
addressing the disparities of access to health care services for communities in-need. 
WHO WE  ARE  / COMMUNITY  IMPACT 15
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com■■Sustainability:  Launch philanthropic initiatives that emphasize smart energy 
management and increase sustainability awareness and education in communities  
in need. 
EDUCATION 
Technology provides tools to help support new ways to solve social issues. We’re using our 
philanthropy dollars to plant the seeds of innovation and cultivate the creative thinking that 
will spread the benefits of technology broadly across society. For example, in partnership 
with some of the world’s most reputable cultural and scientific institutions, we developed an 
educational website, Thinkfinity, to provide interactive learning materials for K–12 teachers 
and students. Today Thinkfinity is one of the most visited sites of its kind. 
In 2011, we had over 31 million visits to Thinkfinity.org  and its partner sites to access its 
educational content and by the end of the year, there were over 40,000 members of our 
Online Educators Community.
Here are a few of our notable accomplishments in education over the past 11 years: 
■■Developed over 10,000 online resources for teachers and students 
■■Trained over 120,000 educators on integration of technology and digital content 
into classroom instruction
■■Invested $277 million in education 
Looking ahead, we believe our rapid deployment of 4G LTE mobile networks will be a game 
changer in education. As entrepreneurs and developers embed 4G LTE connections in a whole 
new category of mobile devices, the Verizon Foundation is working on a number of projects 
to adapt these new technologies to the classroom.
To learn more, visit www.verizonfoundation.org/our-focus
HEAL TH CARE
It is our belief that care improves when technology fosters collaboration between patients and 
health care professionals. Get the right information into the right hands when and where it 
is needed, and professionals can make informed decisions regarding their patients’ care. The 
Verizon Foundation is investing in ways to help deliver these solutions. Additionally, we are 
committed to the health of families and communities by preventing domestic violence through 
promoting respect and equality, and by empowering people to speak out against violence. 
During 2011:
■■We invested $3.0 million on mobile and telehealth care initiatives around the 
country.
WHO WE  ARE  / COMMUNITY  IMPACT 16
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com■■More than 2,500 students participated in our “Training Camps for Life” program. 
Held in conjunction with the NFL Players Association and A CALL TO MEN, these 
camps teach teens about respect and domestic violence prevention issues. 
To learn more, visit www.verizonfoundation.org/our-focus
SUSTAINABILITY
As we extend the resources of the Verizon Foundation into sustainability, we plan to leverage 
our expertise in energy management and machine-to-machine technology to foster smart 
energy practices in communities and universities. We also plan to leverage our operational 
excellence in sustainability to help build awareness and inspire good environmental citizenship 
among students and communities. Under the Verizon Environmental Stewardship Program, 
we will launch a philanthropic initiative that emphasizes smart energy management, and 
increases sustainability awareness and education in communities in need.
■■We have partnered with Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y. to install a geothermal 
heat pump for our cell site on the university’s campus. This project will help students 
get hands-on experience in this important new area of alternative energy, while 
providing reduced maintenance, better reliability and a possible model for other 
Verizon cell sites.
■■Since 2001, our HopeLine program has collected over 8.9 million mobile phones, 
keeping the devices out of landfills and turning them into support for victims and 
survivors of domestic violence. 
To learn more, visit www.verizonfoundation.org/our-focus
Volunteers
Our employees are at the heart of our community service. In 2011, our employees volunteered 
over 674,000 hours to more than 7,000 community organizations. Our Volunteer Incentive 
Program awards employees who volunteer 50 hours a year with a qualifying nonprofit with 
a $750 grant for that organization. Over the last 10 years, all of this has resulted in a total 
of more than 6.2 million hours of hard work and dedication to community service. 
In total, over the last 10 years, our employee volunteers, supported by the Foundation, have 
accomplished much: 
■■More than 45,000 community non-profits have benefitted from our employees’ 
efforts.
■■We have 108,000 volunteers on the streets in communities.
■■The Foundation has given $165 million to nonprofit groups supported by our 
employee volunteers. WHO WE  ARE  / COMMUNITY  IMPACT 17
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comEMPLOYEE HOURS VOLUNTEERED PER YEAR
20 09 702,618
2010 733,806
2011 674,207
To learn more, visit www.verizonfoundation.org/employee-retiree
A Pro Bono Program Built to Last
Three years ago, when Verizon’s office of General Counsel set out to build a top-flight legal 
volunteer program, they built it in a way that’s particularly — Verizon-ish. 
We have a large legal group of more than 400 attorneys and 300 staffers dispersed over more 
than 20 states and several countries around the world. Instead of building a series of small, 
local programs and going it alone, Verizon’s legal team, did something different.
They built it much like we build our networks.
They picked a great partner — in this case, DLA Piper, a law firm with more than 4,000 
lawyers and a lot of pro bono expertise. They deployed cutting-edge technology to spur staff 
collaboration, such as electronic meeting rooms, online training programs and webinars to 
Attorneys don’t often fight to work for free, but that’s exactly what 
Verizon did in Virginia, where ethics rules prevented in-house counsel such 
as the members of our legal team from providing pro bono service in the 
Commonwealth.
At a conference called by the Chief Justice of the Virginia Supreme Court in 
April 2010 on the state of pro bono service in the Commonwealth, Randy 
Milch, executive vice president and general counsel for Verizon, urged that 
Virginia’s ethics rules be changed to allow full participation by in-house 
counsel, noting that such counsel are “no less talented or committed to 
meeting the needs of the poor” than other lawyers.
That call for action resulted in a recommendation by the Virginia State Bar 
and the Virginia Bar Association to lift restrictions on in-house pro bono. The 
change was approved by the Virginia Supreme Court and became effective 
on April 15, 2011. Verizon is currently working on this issue in other states.
FEATURE  STORYWHO WE  ARE  / COMMUNITY  IMPACT 18
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comtrain volunteers and coordinate case work. They installed case approval and tracking systems 
and put in place detailed policies and a steering committee to keep the program properly 
focused and on-track.
This approach — all this ground work and infrastructure building, this thoroughness and 
dedication to create something of lasting value — sits behind the scenes. But it’s necessary 
to keep the program going for the long haul. 
The results have been impressive. In 2011, 328 attorneys and legal staff participated in Verizon’s 
Pro Bono Program — including attorneys in countries around the globe — volunteering 
thousands of hours. 
Here’s a sampling of recent achievements:
■■A contingent of 50 volunteers has begun working with the National Veterans 
Legal Services Program, serving veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder by 
helping them apply for a federal benefits program that aids veterans injured while 
performing hazardous duty.
■■A joint team of attorneys helped immigrant victims of domestic violence apply for 
special visas that would allow them to remain in the U.S. without having to depend 
on their partners.
■■Verizon and DLA Piper worked to change rules that made it difficult for corporate 
attorneys to do pro bono work in Virginia. As a result, the restrictions were lifted in 
April, clearing the path for our lawyers — and any others that follow — to do pro 
bono work in the Commonwealth.
■■Our pro bono program earned the prestigious 2011 Pro Bono Partner Award from 
the Pro Bono Institute. They also won accolades from the Association of Corporate 
Counsel (ACC) and the Washington Metropolitan Area Chapter of the ACC. In 
addition, the program was cited as a factor in being named to the G.I. Jobs Top 100 
Military-Friendly Employers List for 2012. 
A program like this is a success that is shared among many: our communities get much 
needed legal services and our attorneys get to work on something they’re passionate about. 
Public Service Announcements (PSAs)
In 2011, Verizon supported ten National Public Service Announcement campaigns by donating 
the equivalent of more than $2 million in media time across Verizon FiOS TV, Verizon Wireless 
Mobile Web and Verizon FiOS Internet.  
Verizon partnered with many non-profit organizations, including the Ad Council, Common 
Sense Media and the Clinton Bush Haiti Fund, to distribute messages on topics including WHO WE  ARE  / COMMUNITY  IMPACT 19
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comHispanic parental engagement, heart health and digital content ratings. Verizon also shared 
the PSA platform to rally support for disaster relief efforts during the Japan earthquake and 
the Horn of Africa famine crisis. 
In 2011, Verizon also launched a public service announcement section to the News Channel 
of its Verizon Video service. In 2011, Verizon ran 28 PSAs on the channel, including many 
from PSA partners such as the Ad Council. 
Supplier Diversity
Verizon is committed to establishing and expanding effective business partnerships with diverse 
businesses. The inclusion of diverse suppliers in our supply chain is essential to meeting the 
needs of our growing businesses in wireless, broadband and enterprise communications. 
Our commitment to diversity starts at the top of our business. To create more opportunities 
for certified minority, women, disabled, Vietnam-era and service-disabled veteran business 
enterprises (MWDVBEs), executive compensation is tied to promoting diversity.
Verizon is a charter member of the Billion Dollar Roundtable, a coalition of 18 companies 
that spend more than $1 billion each year with diverse suppliers.
In a down economy, we have maintained our spending level with certified MWDVBEs over 
the past three years. In fact, Verizon Wireless device suppliers more than doubled their 
spending with diverse suppliers in 2011. In total for 2011, Verizon purchased $3.8 billion in 
goods and services with MWDVBEs, bringing our total spending to more than $17.9 billion 
in the past five years. 
We also support supplier diversity through programs such as:
■■Verizon Premier Supplier Academy.  his program debuted in 2011 and provides 
best practices for “How to Do Business with Verizon” and 2nd Tier /Sub-contracting 
opportunities between our Strategic Prime Suppliers and selected competitive 
MWDVBEs.
■■Procurement & Technology Education Series.  Verizon partners with minority 
chambers of commerce to train small and minority-owned entrepreneurs on how 
to use technologies such as e-marketing, e-procurement and customer relations 
management tools and incorporate them into the daily operations of their 
businesses to increase operational efficiency. The series also educates entrepreneurs 
in using smart wireless technologies to run their businesses “on the go.” 
■■Buy Those Who Buy Us Fund. Verizon supports the “Buy Those Who Buy Us” Fund 
to assist minority-owned businesses with capacity-building funds to be applied to 
their businesses.$3.8  
billion
2009 2010 2011Overall Spending with 
Diverse SuppliersWHO WE  ARE  / COMMUNITY  IMPACT 20
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com■■Micro-Business Technical Assistance (MTA) Program. This training program is 
a partnership with the National Asian American Coalition. The MTA is a 32-hour 
educational experience directed at micro-business owners to provide fundamental 
management skills training in specific core competencies needed to manage and 
operate a successful micro or small business.
■■WeConnect International. Verizon is a member of WeConnect International, which 
facilitates sustainable economic growth by increasing opportunities for women-
owned businesses to succeed in global value chains.
See page 4 6 for data on Verizon’s economic impact.2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com21
FOCUS AREAS
The broadband revolution has upended business models across the economy, changing 
the way buyers connect with sellers, employers relate to workers and entrepreneurs reach 
new customers. Through our network investments and an ecosystem of innovation, Verizon 
has helped create this platform for growth and embed digital intelligence throughout the 
economy.
Now, these transformational models are moving beyond the business market. Widespread 
access to high-speed networks and cloud servers is stimulating entrepreneurial activity and 
bringing new network-based, software-driven solutions to such sectors as health care, energy 
management and education. These new approaches to age-old problems have great potential 
to change the delivery model for services, empower consumers to improve their quality of 
life and create more effective and efficient social institutions.
Verizon is focused on bringing new solutions and social innovation to the marketplace, 
expanding the market for our services and improving the lives of our customers and communities.
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com22
FOCUS AREAS
ACCESSIBILITY 
We embrace a set of Universal Design Principles to make all  
of our technology accessible to the broadest possible range  
of users 
The rapid pace of technological innovation has brought services once geared toward people 
with disabilities into the mainstream. Intelligent, voice-driven device interaction and real-time 
video chats exploit the power of our technology, lowers barriers to communication, and 
transforms the way we all interact with devices and with each other. Innovation such as this 
proves our belief that products accessible to all are simply better products. 
As we create opportunities for the community of people with disabilities, we open new markets 
for Verizon as well. We are guided by our Universal Design Principles. Adopted in 1996, these 
principles compel us to design and develop services, to the extent readily achievable, to be 
accessible to a broad range of diverse users. 
We also have two national service centers devoted to finding solutions for customers with 
disabilities. Verizon has made tremendous strides, increasing the number of products tailored 
for seniors and people with physical challenges. 
Among our suite of accessibility features for seniors and people with disabilities are: 
■■Voice Commands and Menu readouts  on the majority of our devices, 
■■Larger menu fonts and keypads  on select devices, 
■■Simple 411 Assistance  for customers who are blind, have low vision, a dexterity 
disability, or a cognitive disability, 
■■Video services  including Videophone, FaceTime for the iPhone 4, iPhone 4S and 
iPad2, and 
■■A host of messaging and chat-without-talking applications and services. 
And in 2011, we introduced a corporate version of our nationwide “text only” wireless 
service plan for deaf professionals. We also introduced a new version of the FiOS television 
Interactive Media Guide that provides larger images, background colors that are easier to read, 
and an online version that is compatible with screen reader software. And we introduced a 
big-button remote control for FiOS TV.
Learn more at: aboutus.verizonwireless.com/accessibilityFOCUS AREAS  / A CCESSIBILITY  23
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comEnhanced Accessibility for FiOS TV
We are dedicated to enhancing the accessibility of all our products. In 2011, updates to the 
FiOS TV Interactive Media Guide improved accessibility for the visually impaired. 
Among the many feature updates, we added:
■■Support for Descriptive Video Service to help the blind
■■A new big button remote control
Products Tailored to Special Needs
We offer a host of solutions to make a positive impact on the lives of customers with disabilities, 
senior citizens, and children.
■■Text-Only Messaging Plans:  These plans are specially designed for those who 
do not use voice minutes to communicate. Nationwide Messaging plans include 
unlimited text, picture, video messaging and more. 
■■Big-Button Phones for the Visually Impaired:  For customers who need a larger 
fonts or large keypad, Verizon Wireless offers the Samsung Haven, which has voice 
commands and prominent dedicated emergency keys. 
■■Video Relay Service via Tablets and Smartphones:  The deaf, hard of hearing or 
speech disabled can place or receive Video Relay Service (VRS) calls via a special app 
on PCs as well as Android and Apple tablets and smartphones.  
Reaffirming our Commitment to Accessibility
Our work to increase the accessibility of our offerings never stops. In 2012, we reaffirm our 
commitment to provide products and services that are safe, reliable and accessible.
■■More Solutions: We will ship more devices that feature voice recognition capabilities 
and launch software such as a screenreader app for Android devices. 
■■More Awareness: We will increase outreach efforts to demonstrate how our 
technology can be applied to solve problems for the disabled. 
■■More Partnerships:  We will seek out opportunities with schools to learn how tablet 
computers can be used to educate deaf children.
 2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com24
FOCUS AREAS
DIGITAL SAFETY
We’re putting tools in customers’ hands for controlling their 
digital lives and creating the bond of trust that is critical to the 
continued expansion of the digital marketplace 
Online Safety
As Verizon’s technology becomes increasingly ubiquitous and online interaction becomes 
enmeshed in daily life, customers have to be confident that their personal information is safe 
and they can control its use. Through individualized safety tools and parental controls, we’re 
giving customers the tools they need to manage their digital lives. In doing so, we create the 
bond of trust that is crucial to the continued expansion of the digital marketplace. 
Verizon’s Parental Controls Center  provides access to safety experts, usage controls and 
comprehensive security software so parents can appropriately monitor and safeguard their 
family’s wireless, online and TV use. Our inventory of resources includes:
■■Verizon Wireless Content Filters : Free tools are available to block access to 
unwanted content. Mobile Web 2.0, gives parents the opportunity to decide what 
content is appropriate for their children. 
■■Parental control features on FiOS TV : Free, easy-to-use controls ensure that 
viewable programming is appropriate for all family members.
■■Verizon Internet Security Suite : Gain piece of mind by protecting computers, 
personal information, and children from a wide array of online threats. 
We help parents actively manage their family’s safety by working continuously to provide 
education about responsible online behavior, as well as potential security and privacy issues. 
Learn more at parentalcontrolcenter.com . 
Mobile App Ratings
Our long-standing support for responsible ratings systems exemplifies our commitment to 
giving families the best tools to manage content on wireless devices.
■■2007:  Verzion debuts age-based mobile content ratings
■■2010:  VCAST and BREW Apps with age-based ratings
■■2012:  New industry-standard ratings for mobile apps
FOCUS AREAS  / DIGITAL S AFETY 25
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comSafety Features Second to None
We offer a host of solutions to help customers manage usage, block unwanted content, and 
keep families safe.
   
■■Verizon Internet Security Suite:  Protect computers, personal information, and 
children — 24/7 — with automated updates that provide protection from the latest 
dangers.
■■FiOS TV Parental Controls:  Manage what can be watched, control content using 
TV and MPAA ratings for shows and movies, and control games using ESRB ratings. 
Block all programming on specific channels individually.
■■Usage Controls and Content Filters:  Set limits on use and filter inappropriate 
content on mobile devices with controls from Verizon Wireless.
Policies that Protect
We listen to our customers’ concerns about privacy and safety, and have created — and are 
constantly updating — policies to keep customers actively engaged and informed.
■■Driving Safety:  Since 2000, Verizon Wireless has led the industry in supporting laws 
to eliminate driver distractions caused by mobile devices. Learn more at  
aboutus.verizonwireless.com/wirelessissues/driving.html  
■■Privacy Policy: Our respect for customer privacy, security and choice means that we 
clearly communicate our privacy policies and offer opt-out options. Learn more at 
verizon.com/privacy
■■Content Policy:  For content on Verizon’s networks, our goal is to help you access 
content you want and avoid content you don’t. Learn more at responsibility.verizon.
com/content-policy  
Privacy
Privacy is an essential element in the processes we use to create innovative products and 
services. We recognize that individual customers have different privacy preferences and make 
different choices about the types of information they are willing to share. We are transparent 
in describing to our customers how their information will be used and we give customers 
the opportunity to choose whether certain information uses and sharing is acceptable to 
them. We understand that consumers will use the full capabilities of our communications 
networks and the vast opportunities our products and services provide only if they trust that 
their information will remain private. Protecting the privacy of customer information is part FOCUS AREAS  / DIGITAL S AFETY 26
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comof each Verizon employee’s responsibility, and we have reliable safeguards in place to shield 
customer information from unauthorized access, use or disclosure. 
As Verizon develops new products and services, deploys new technologies and develops 
new uses of information, we review and update our privacy policy to reflect these changes. 
In addition, from time to time we make organizational, stylistic and grammatical changes to 
present our practices in a way that makes our policy easy to read. 
In September 2011 we introduced an updated privacy policy that provides notice about new 
information collection and use practices and explains to customers their choices about these 
uses. In addition, we changed the structure of the policy to provide greater clarity and ease of 
navigation and additional choice options. The full policy can be found at  verizon.com/privacy .2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com27
FOCUS AREAS
EDUCATION
We believe our technology can transform education through a 
broadband-enabled ecosystem of learning that increases 
student engagement and expands access to the tools of the 
digital economy 
Mobile Learning Devices in the Classroom
Every week at certain high schools in Baltimore and Washington, D.C. students are piling 
eagerly into a school bus  — but they’re not going home or heading out for a field trip. In 
fact, they’re not even leaving the parking lot.
The bold graphics on the outside of the bus showing enthusiastic students using wireless 
devices reflect what goes on inside. Students snatch up wireless tablets and go to work with 
volunteers from local universities to prepare for their SAT exams. Dubbed a Mobile Learning 
Lab, this high-tech demonstration project is one attempt to transform education through 
the application of our technology.
As widespread access to high-speed networks stimulates innovation and new cloud-based, 
software-driven solutions, we asked ourselves how we could apply these increasingly popular 
technologies to improve education. How can we structure school programs to support 21st 
century learners? The Mobile Learning Lab is one of a variety of pilot programs Verizon Wireless 
is conducting to answer these questions at schools in underserved communities from the 
Baltimore–D.C. metro area to the rural mountains of southern Virginia.
Dr. Barney Wilson, principal of Baltimore’s Reginald Lewis High School, said Verizon’s Mobile 
Learning Lab not only delivers technology. “It brings students the feeling that they’re really 
preparing for college, feeling like they’re competitive,” he said. He hopes for a 200–500 
point jump in the school’s average SAT score as a result.
In addition to the traveling wireless bus, we’re testing new markets by providing students in 
Baltimore with wireless tablets and high-schoolers in Mecklenburg County, Va., with wireless 
connections and discounted Netbooks. 
The projects are aimed at engaging students by trading chalkboards and paper and placing 
in their hands the vast resources of the Internet. It appears to be working. As Wilson said, 
“We’re sucking them into learning.”
At Reginald Lewis High School, where Verizon partnered with Samsung to provide tablets 
and software for Spanish classes, students can access Gloria Estefan music videos, Spanish 
FEATURE  STORYFOCUS AREAS  / EDUCATION 28
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comsoap operas, Spanish coverage of the Super Bowl or World Cup soccer, as well as art and 
literature to enhance more traditional language exercises. 
“They’re excited to get into class every day. They’re motivated and engaged,” said Spanish 
teacher Kamal Dawson-Quest. Once the class begins, she added, disruptions are few as 
students focus their energy on various Spanish experiences via wireless. 
Longer term trials in rural Virginia’s Mecklenburg County have gone so well that the school 
district purchased netbooks that connect to our wireless network for every 9th and 10th 
grade student. High school students — many for the first time — can access the Internet 
from home using our wireless network. Channeled through the school’s server, learning can 
continue when the school and library are closed, or simply too distant for some students to 
reach outside regular hours. 
School board member Mary Hicks said the wireless devices enable students to keep pace 
with their peers in suburban schools by delivering many of the same educational resources. 
The program has been so successful that it has been expanded to lower grade levels, with 
smartphones and tablets.
Through the use of a cell tower that extends our network to a remote area, we help open 
the door to a world of opportunity, and at the same time gain customers. And children who 
never had ubiquitous Internet service now have it as a routine part of their daily lives.
“This is what can happen when you have public-private cooperation with a great company 
like Verizon,” Reginald Lewis High School’s Wilson said. “It’s a home run, a grand slam.”
Making Education Accessible to  
Those Who Need it Most
Treatments for a brain tumor kept Paris Luckowski out of his fourth grade classroom for much 
of last spring. Yet the Newark, N.J., student was able to keep pace — and even socialize — 
with his St. Philip’s Academy classmates during school.
His presence in the bustling hallways and in class was possible thanks to a robot equipped 
with interactive communication powered by Verizon’s 4G LTE wireless network. The four-foot 
VGo robot’s “face” is a screen through which Luckowski’s classmates and teachers could see 
him. In turn, Luckowski could see and contribute in class via Webcam video and a microphone. 
Controlling the robot from home via computer, Luckowski guided his hi-tech stand-in as it 
scooted around the school on wheels.
The interactive robot is the result of collaboration between Verizon and VGo, a product of a 
unique Verizon Innovation Center in Waltham, Mass. The center is one of two such Verizon 
Putting smart 
technology solutions in 
the hands of students, 
teachers, and parents 
has tremendous 
potential to change the 
educational culture.
FEATURE  STORYFOCUS AREAS  / EDUCATION 29
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comlabs where companies can work with our experts to incorporate the transformational power 
of 4G LTE into new devices and applications .
The Verizon Foundation saw the VGo “telepresence” robots as an opportunity to explore 
innovative uses of our technology and is providing VGos to 15 institutions nationwide. At St. 
Philip’s in Newark, NJ, the robot provides a variety of academic benefits: enabling a student 
from Ghana to be in a classroom sharing her daily life and culture with students; allowing a 
learning specialist to observe a student remotely without distracting the class; bringing an 
algebra tutor into the class virtually to teach advanced students while the teacher helps other 
students one-on-one; and giving distant parents the chance to get a virtual experience of 
what goes on in the classroom.
Markets for robot technology include, among others, the health care industry, where robots 
enable doctors and care givers to diagnose and provide other services remotely, and the 
security field, where the robots can serve as mobile eyes and ears around the clock.
In Luckowski’s case, the Verizon-VGo effort is providing more than a high school education, 
it’s enabled him to escape his isolated world, interact with his peers and make new friends 
outside his home.The Verizon 
Foundation supports 
projects that apply 
technologies such as 
our 4G L TE network to 
improve education.2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com30
FOCUS AREAS
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
From appliances to cars to powerlines and generators, 
communications technology is making every part of the energy 
ecosystem smarter   Verizon is a big part of this solution 
We see a growing market for smart technologies that enable better energy management 
of homes, cars, office buildings and utility grids. While our work with energy utilities has 
resulted in cutting-edge machine-to-machine solutions developed in our innovation labs, the 
real breakthrough of this digitization of the electrical grid is that it uses information to give 
users unprecedented control over how they consume and manage energy and unites the 
producers and consumers of energy into a single, dynamic energy ecosystem.
Envision Charlotte
In Charlotte, N.C., Verizon is working with partners Cisco and Duke Energy on a breakthrough 
project to dramatically raise energy awareness. 
Known as “Envision: Charlotte,” the initiative calls for jumbo video screens in downtown 
lobbies that display in near-real time the total energy used by buildings in the city’s core. 
The interactive displays include suggestions that help individuals take steps to cut their own 
energy consumption. Social media postings are supplementing information on the screen, 
along with tales of “energy champions” who create new conservation ideas for their firms.
 
The effort is a first-of-its-kind public-private initiative to address energy efficiency across 
a downtown area. It’s also a major jump into the commercial energy market for Verizon 
and the other companies involved. Products in this area have typically been focused on the 
residential market. 
Verizon’s 4G LTE wireless network connects the 70 buildings in uptown Charlotte, collecting 
energy usage data and streaming the results to the lobby monitors. Duke Energy, the area’s 
electric power supplier, anticipates actions inspired by the project will produce a 20 percent 
drop in power use — approximately 220,000 metric tons of greenhouse gases — by 2016. 
The goal for the project is to make downtown Charlotte the most sustainable urban core in 
the nation.
Promoting energy reduction in Charlotte is just one benefit of the collaborative effort. Envision: 
Charlotte organizers hope that new businesses will be attracted to a city with the strategy 
and technologies in place to significantly reduce energy costs. The U.S. Department of Energy 
estimates the savings potential from applying cost-effective measures in existing commercial 
buildings is up to 20 percent. 
Envision: Charlotte 
uses the latest 4G L TE 
technology in a manner 
that could have only been 
imagined a few years 
ago. The technology 
offers an effective 
way to give people the 
information they need 
to become responsible 
stewards of energy use.FOCUS AREAS  / ENERGY  MANAGEMENT 31
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comFor Verizon, the program may open similar opportunities in other cities, as they see the 
advantages yielded by Envision: Charlotte. Organizers of the project describe it as the “Prius 
Effect,” a model that creates a high regard for going green.
That effect seems to be taking hold: the initiative earned an industry award for Best Energy 
Efficiency/Demand Response Project for 2012.
Verizon Wireless Harmonizing with Consert
Verizon Wireless participated in a pilot program in Texas in 2011 in which electric utility 
customers allowed the power company to turn up their thermostat in hot weather and to 
lower it in cold weather. While residents and small businesses didn’t notice much difference, 
smart energy management means a significant difference when it comes to utility bills and 
prudent use of energy.
Running the program was Consert, Inc., a company that provides intelligent load management 
for utilities. Consert turned to Verizon for reliable, real-time wireless communications between 
the customer’s premises and the electric company.
By partnering on these “smart grid” projects — in which electric utilities have greater control 
over their networks — we’re helping communities address pressing concerns about energy 
usage, while positioning ourselves as a key solutions provider in the market.
In Texas, Consert recruited volunteers who allowed the company to install load monitoring 
and control equipment on heat and air conditioning systems, water heaters, pool pumps and 
other major energy-consuming devices. 
As part of the process, customers allowed the utility to remotely cycle their devices off for 
brief periods during times of peak demand. Tests run during the extremes of cold and heat 
in Texas reported no changes in comfort levels for the volunteers.
The speed of Verizon’s 4G LTE network and the service we provide is a competitive advantage 
for companies like Consert in this growing field.
The CEO of the local utility said the success of the pilot program shows enormous potential 
for the utility and consumers and could enable to the company to avoid power outages in 
the future.
We see a growing 
market for smart 
technologies that unite 
the producers and 
consumers of energy 
into a single, dynamic 
energy ecosystem.2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com32
FOCUS AREAS
HEAL TH CARE
Verizon is focused on bringing new solutions and social 
innovation to health care, expanding the market for our services 
and improving the lives of customers and consumers 
Housecalls on Y our Smartphone
Each year more than 200,000 people in the U.S. die of chronic diseases that are both treatable 
and preventable. Among the causes of these deaths is lack of ready access to medical care, 
because of such barriers as distance, geography, or simply the availability of doctors and nurses.
Verizon is currently deploying and developing wireless services that will overcome these 
roadblocks, using our 4G LTE network, smartphones, tablets and advanced video technology 
to enable virtual visits between patients and health care providers. 
In one such venture, Verizon is working with health insurer WellPoint, Inc., to provide face-to-
face visits between patients subscribing to WellPoint health plans and their nurse care managers.
Our high-speed, secure video service enables real-time health care guidance and eliminates 
the time and travel costs for patients in rural areas or businesspeople with a packed schedule. 
In many cases, patients can consult with a health care professional simply by using the video 
capabilities of their smartphone.
“You can be in your office, a stationary car or at home, the service is available no matter where 
you are,” said Brett Day, Global Enterprise manager for Verizon Wireless. He added that patients 
can set up appointments or contact a nurse as needed. “In case there’s something going on 
with their condition, there’s the comfort and immediacy of dealing with someone face-to-face.”
While remote visits avoid the cost of emergency rooms and urgent care clinics, they still allow 
patients and nurses to form personal relationships. “Our videoconferencing technology has 
the look and feel of being face-to-face with someone,” Day said. “You feel more connected.”
It’s hoped that the convenience of the service will drive more active participation by patients 
in their health care and encourage them to stay on track with their medical programs. The 
service also enables family and friends to track the condition of loved ones by linking in 
during consultations.
“You can conference in with care-givers and the patients and hear firsthand about their 
condition, even if you’re in another state,” Day said. “I’ve talked to family members and 
friends of patients and they say that capability is a huge benefit.”
A groundbreaking 
demonstration project 
is using smartphones 
to improve health care 
in rural communities.FOCUS AREAS  / HEAL TH C ARE 33
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comRemoving Barriers to Rural Health Care
Wise County, in the mountains of Appalachian southwest Virginia, is located far from the 
state’s urban centers. Geographic isolation, coupled with high levels of unemployment and 
poverty and shortages of health care specialists have resulted in high rates of chronic illness in 
the region. To help residents of southwest Virginia overcome a host of health care challenges, 
Verizon has partnered with the University of Virginia Center for Telehealth in Charlottesville 
to help establish telehealth-supported clinics in the region.
Using high-speed broadband networks, telehealth enables doctors to consult with patients 
face-to-face via videoconferencing or monitor patient vital signs around the clock from 
remote locations.
“Telehealth is one tool to raise the bar on health care services that are simply not available 
in rural and remote regions of our state and our nation,” said Dr. Karen Rheuban, Medical 
Director of the Office of Telemedicine. “It’s a tool that improves access, lowers costs through 
timely intervention and improves quality.”
For four years, Verizon has been involved in another cooperative effort with UVA in Wise 
County, providing our foundation’s support for the Remote Area Medical (RAM) Clinic. RAM 
is an organization that provides programs nationwide in which patients receive medical and 
dental services, vision and hearing services, free mammograms, colon cancer screenings 
and educational services. Verizon Foundation funds have been used to support high-speed 
connectivity at the RAM clinic to provide telemedicine services, patient registration and access 
to electronic medical records during the clinic. 
Rheuban said patients have been delighted with the telemedicine program, noting that the 
telehealth program not only spares patients “the burden of long-distance travel,” but brings 
an environmental bonus, as well. “We’ve already saved Virginians over 7 million miles of 
travel for access to health care,” she said.
The Department of Nursing at the University of Virginia’s College at Wise used a recent grant 
from the Verizon Foundation to help establish a telehealth training program. With training in 
advanced telehealth technology, nursing graduates of UVA-Wise can provide the local contact 
needed to help bring primary and specialty medical care to medically underserved areas. In 
addition to improving nursing skills and access within the region, this telenursing curriculum 
will also serve as a model that can be shared with other nursing programs throughout Virginia 
and the nation.
In all such telehealth efforts, Rheuban said Verizon “has provided invaluable support” in 
helping UVA’s Telehealth program reach across the state. “Our mission is to provide clinical 
care, education, research and public service to all residents of the Commonwealth.”
A telehealth program 
aims to raise the bar 
on health care services 
in rural and remote 
regions of Virginia.Dr. Andy Southerland 
participates in a 
telemedicine encounter 
supported by a  
Verizon Foundation 
telehealth grant.FEATURE  STORYFOCUS AREAS  / HEAL TH C ARE 34
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comDomestic Violence Prevention 
Domestic violence affects nearly one in four women, one in seven men and more than three 
million children. The World Health Organization calls it an important public health problem 
that requires the involvement of many sectors working together at community, national 
and international levels. Verizon’s goal is to increase awareness of domestic violence and 
its repercussions, engage men and young people in the issue and lend our resources and 
technology to help victims and their families. In 2011, the Verizon Foundation contributed 
$10 million for domestic violence prevention grants. And in total, Verizon has contributed 
more than $39 million in support of domestic violence prevention issues to date.
EDUCATION, AWARENESS AND PREVENTION
■■To engage men and teens in helping end domestic violence, the Verizon Foundation 
partnered with the NFL Players Association and A Call to Men to provide domestic 
violence prevention training and information to teenagers in the association’s 
“Training Camp for Life” program. In 2011, more than 2,500 students participated 
in camps help across the country. A satellite media tour reached nearly 11.2 million 
viewers.
■■This year, the Verizon Foundation has teamed up with sportscaster James Brown 
to conduct a national campaign promoting respect and equality in an effort to end 
domestic violence.
■■“Telling Amy’s Story” is a gripping film about Amy McGee, a young Pennsylvania 
mother — and Verizon employee — who was killed by her abusive husband. Since 
2010, the Verizon-funded documentary has been a catalyst to raise awareness and 
open discussion. It has aired on 384 local public television stations. Verizon has also 
held 67 screenings of the documentary attended by 3,073 employees.
■■In New York State, Verizon will fund entrepreneurship training programs for 
survivors of domestic violence. In consultation with the state Office for the 
Prevention of Domestic Violence, programs in five cities will provide training and 
support to help survivors start a small business.
We are funding programs 
in New Y ork State that 
provide training and 
support to help domestic 
violence survivors start 
small businesses.2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com35
FOCUS AREAS
SUSTAINABILITY
We’re exploring how to use the power of technology innovation  
to make ourselves a more sustainable company and tackle  
the challenge of creating a greener society in new, more  
effective ways 
Clear Goals, Backed by Solid Metrics
In 2011, we built on our industry-leading sustainability practices by committing to broad 
energy efficiency and alternative fuel vehicle goals. We also expanded our portfolio of wireless 
and broadband solutions that help customers reduce their own energy costs and accelerate 
the transition to a low-carbon, sustainable economy. 
 
As a global company that operates some of the world’s most advanced broadband and 
wireless networks, we have a responsibility to be an effective steward of natural resources 
and have integrated that commitment into every facet of our business. We have a fleet of 
38,000 vehicles, consume 41 million gallons of fuel annually, operate 31,000 facilities, use 
10 billion kilowatt hours of electricity annually and employ more than 190,000 people.
We have developed a metric called carbon intensity that measures energy use per terabyte 
of data flowing through our networks. In this way we can accurately gauge our progress in 
energy efficiency even as our business grows. 
Using this standard, we set a goal of reducing our carbon intensity by 50 percent by 2020, 
compared to a baseline measured in 2009. We’ve already cut our carbon intensity by 30 
percent, through help from new network equipment, energy-efficient requirements and 
aggressive energy efficiency initiatives in our buildings.
In our service fleet, our goal is to have 15 percent of our vehicles running on alternative fuel 
by 2015. We added 667 such vehicles in 2011, bringing us roughly halfway to our goal. 
Today, our efforts are having a positive impact on air quality, electricity and water consumption, 
conservation of trees, reductions of toxins in our landfills and reduced commuter congestion, 
among other benefits. The following information provides highlights of our 2011 achievements 
in sustainability and how we’re advancing toward our long-term goals through our processes, 
our products and our people.
FOCUS AREAS  / SUSTAINABILITY 36
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comVERIZON’S ENERGY EFFICIENCY RESUL TS
% change 2011 2010 2009
Terabyte throughput 12.64% 88.59 million 78.65 million 67.87 million
Electricity (kWh) (2.34%) 10.00 billion 10.24 billion 10.27 billion
CO2 (metric tons) (6.93%) 5.64 million 6.06 million 6.20 million
Kilowatt hour / Terabyte* (13.38%) 112.84 130.27 151.71
CO2 / Terabyte* (17.45%) 0.06369 0.07716 0.09158
 *monthly average  
VERIZON’S 2011 CO2 EMISSIONS PROFILE
CO2 (metric tons) % emissions
Vehicle fuels 381,413 6.76%
Building and other fuels 199,859 3.54%
Electricity 5,061,414 89.79%
Total 5,642,686 100%
  
AL TERNATIVE VEHICLE PROFILE
Vehicle Type 2010 Active 2011 Additions Total Active
Biofuel 370 360 730
CNG Aerial 10 0 10
CNG Van 503 1 504
Electric Sedan 0 5 5
Electric Van 0 5 5
Hybrid Aerial Splicer 8 0 8
Hybrid Pick-Up 604 278 882
Hybrid Van 12 1 13
Hybrid Aerial 6 2 8
Hybrid Sedan 377 15 392
SmartWay Tractor 12 0 12
Total Green Vehicles 1,902 667 2,569
Processes
■■Our Global Network Service Delivery team retired network equipment that was 
underused or housed in facilities that were closing in Europe and Asia. The effort cut 
approximately 4 million kilowatt hours of electricity, equivalent to 3.6 million pounds 
of carbon dioxide emissions. 
■■We’re deploying smart building technology at 83 Verizon locations to better manage 
energy-hogging heating and air-conditioning systems. The use of intelligent energy FOCUS AREAS  / SUSTAINABILITY 37
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.commanagement systems in 32 of our U.S. data centers — where rising temperatures 
can be disastrous — has allowed us to turn off 40 percent of the computer room air 
conditioners. The savings comes to 55 million kilowatts annually and 38,000 metric 
tons of carbon dioxide.
■■Our green building program has so far resulted in 100 Verizon Wireless stores 
earning ENERGY STAR® certification and 60 buildings attaining the LEED (Leadership 
in Energy and Environmental Design) certification from the U.S. Green Building 
Council. 
■■We completed two large solar panel projects in 2011. The first, in Port Washington, 
New York, is a 25kW roof mounted system comprised of 108 solar panels. The  
second in Garden City, New York is a 50kW roof mounted system comprised of 221 
solar panels.
■■We’re working with Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., to install a geothermal heat 
pump for our cell site on the university’s campus. This project will help students 
get hands-on experience in this important new area of alternative energy, while 
providing reduced maintenance, better reliability and a possible model for other 
Verizon cell sites.
■■Verizon added 667 alternative-fuel vehicles to our fleet in 2011, bringing the 
number of green vehicles to more than 2,500, or almost 7 percent of our fleet. We 
also cut our gasoline consumption by reducing the equipment carried on 15,000 
trucks and vans, decreasing overall vehicle weight and increasing fuel efficiency. 
In total, Verizon saved more than 6 million gallons of fuel in 2011, a reduction of 
13 percent year over year. 
■■We’re saving a forest of 436,000 trees annually with two initiatives to cut pulp 
from our diet. We’re now offering paper-free billing to both wireline and wireless 
customers, and we’ve obtained waivers in nine states to cease automatic delivery 
of residential white page directories. We’re also paying attention to seemingly small 
details that can be significant in Verizon’s case. For example, we’ve switched to 
business cards made from recycled paper that is 100 percent post-consumer waste 
and is FSC certified. This move alone will save the equivalent of 2,000 trees.
RECYCLING METRICS
2011 2010 2009
Telecommunications Equipment Recycling (thousands 
of tons)20.5 26.4 37.5
Cell Phone Battery and Accessories Recycling & Reclamation (Tons) 
  Total Battery Weight 101.40 162.2 182.3
  Accessories 929.61 1,263.98 1,415.82
Paper and Cardboard Recycling (thousands of tons) 35.6 25.4 22.6
Environmental Notices 30 42 45FOCUS AREAS  / SUSTAINABILITY 38
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comProducts
We provide products that encourage, educate and equip customers to be effective stewards 
of our natural resources.
■■In the home, we’re providing customers ever-greater control over utility bills through 
our Home Monitoring and Control System. Launched in 2011, it lets customers 
control thermostats, lights, appliances, TVs and Web-based video cameras remotely 
over the Internet. 
■■Our green options for the home in 2011 include ENERGY STAR®–certified set top 
boxes for FiOS TV. By year-end, we installed more than 2.2 million of these energy 
misers, saving the equivalent of 58,000 tons of carbon dioxide.
■■We’re putting environmentally friendly devices in customers’ purses and pockets 
with the world’s first carbon-free smartphone, the Motorola Citrus, and four phones 
with green features: the Samsung Intensity II and Illusion and the LG Cosmos Touch 
and Extravert. 
■■Verizon Wireless gives customers the opportunity to recycle their old wireless devices 
by donating them to HopeLine, a program that helps women in need of shelter. 
Since 2008, we have collected more than 4.3 million phones through HopeLine and 
awarded $9.5 million in grants to domestic violence prevention organizations. 
People
We’re drawing on the commitment of our employees and working with customers, suppliers 
and other stakeholders to expand our sustainability efforts.
■■Through Verizon’s TeleWork Program, employees have avoided 1.2 million 
commuting miles, saved 59,466 gallons of fuel and 1,300 days of travel time since 
2010. Employees are also taking advantage of Verizon’s internal Ride Sharing Web 
site where they can find carpooling opportunities and mass transit options.
■■Employees demonstrated that individual recycling efforts can add up to big results, 
collecting more than 425,000 pounds of recyclable material from our offices, 
employee homes and community residents in 2011. Through office supply swaps, 
nearly 600 boxes of no longer used office material went to charities. We conducted 
a Christmas card recycling campaign at more than 200 company locations. And in a 
recycling effort that reveals our collective sweet tooth, employees also donated more 
than 25,000 snack wrappers that will be made into tote bags and lunch bags.
■■Through a partnership with Verizon, American Forests planted 5,000 trees to 
celebrate the 5,000th member of Verizon’s Green Team — employee volunteers 
dedicated to reducing our carbon footprint through conservation and recycling. FOCUS AREAS  / SUSTAINABILITY 39
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comIn total, employees more than 26,000 hours on volunteer environmental activities 
in 2011, including education and recycling events in India and 20 Earth Day events 
across the U.S. About 3 percent of our employees are now members of the Green 
Team. We plan to expand membership to 10,000 employees in 2012.
We Pushed for Energy Efficiency and  
Pulled Our Industry Forward
With a basic change in our purchasing practices, Verizon has lifted the entire telecom industry 
to a higher level of energy efficiency.
The change began in 2009, when measurements determined that equipment used to power 
our network accounted for a significant portion of Verizon’s energy use. The employees 
charged with investigating the situation recognized the potential for large savings in both 
energy and dollars.
At the time, there were no industry benchmarks regarding the energy consumed by network 
equipment. “There had been some talk in the industry, but nothing was happening on this 
front,” said Todd Talbot, one of two employees charged with exploring the situation. “We 
decided to make it happen.”
Verizon set the bar by requiring suppliers to increase the efficiency of their products by 20 
percent. “We were big enough to influence the market. We didn’t have to wait for industry 
consensus,” Talbot said.
The result is an example of how a company Verizon’s size can be a game-changer when it comes 
to promoting sustainable practices. With suppliers adapting to our requirements, all telecom 
companies began using the energy-efficient products. The new network components not only 
aid the environment, they feature the added attraction of lower network operating costs.
Talbot said some suppliers were hesitant to participate at first, but now that there’s industry 
demand for energy-saving equipment, it’s a win-win for network operators and firms that 
sell components.
Since Verizon established our initial benchmarks with suppliers, we have updated our 
requirements and extended them to cover additional network equipment. Talbot is now 
evaluating our wireless network for similar opportunities to work with suppliers to lower 
energy use in this growing space.
FEATURE  STORYFOCUS AREAS  / SUSTAINABILITY 40
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comVerizon HopeLine Continues Setting Records
For the fifth consecutive year, Verizon collected more than 1 million no-longer-used wireless 
phones through our HopeLine phone recycling and reuse program, keeping the devices out 
of landfills and turning them into support for domestic violence survivors.
The donations were made at our stores, via the mail using the online postage-paid label and 
at phone drives held by various groups across the country. 
At the end of 2011, 29,020 HopeLine phones were in service nationwide, a 14.3 percent 
increase over 2010. The phones include 87.1 million free minutes of wireless service. Verizon 
also gave more than $4.2 million in cash grants to nearly 450 domestic violence prevention 
and awareness programs across the country.
HOPELINE METRICS
2009 2010 2011
Phones collected 1,100,000 1,102,000 1,043,000
Phones refurbished 927,000 955,000 930,000
Phones recycled 173,000 147,000 113,000
Phones donated to shelters 23,000 25,000 29,000
Cash donated from HopeLine funds $1,587,000 $2,179,000 $4,206,000
Conflict Minerals
Mineral resources from the Democratic Republic of the Congo — tin, tantalum and tungsten 
ores — are key elements of consumer electronics products such as cell phones, personal 
computers, televisions and MP3 players. In addition, these minerals are also contained in a 
wide variety of other products ranging from automobiles and aircraft to cans. 
We recognize that we have a responsibility to ensure that all of our products are responsibly 
manufactured by our suppliers. Our Supplier Code of Conduct  and Human Rights Statement  
outlines our expectations of suppliers to conduct business with integrity and respect. 
At this time, most manufacturers cannot provide detailed information as to the ultimate source 
of the minerals used in manufacturing cell phones, because of the complex and fragmented 
supply chains involved. Similarly, companies like Verizon, which resell products manufactured 
by other companies, have very little visibility into the source of the minerals used by the 
manufacturers. Because of our commitment to provide socially responsible products, we have 
been deeply involved in efforts to improve the transparency of the minerals supply chain. 
Efforts are under way in the private sector and among international organizations to provide 
consumers with better information about the sources of minerals contained in products. FOCUS AREAS  / SUSTAINABILITY 41
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comWe are working with our suppliers and with organizations such as CTIA, the wireless 
industry’s trade association, to address these issues. Verizon is also a member of GESI ( Global 
e-Sustainability Initiative ), a coalition of private-sector companies that have worked together 
to identify several “clean” (conflict-free) sources for tantalum, which is the primary conflict 
mineral used in various electronic equipment, and to support pilot “bag and tag” programs 
that can add crucial visibility to a mineral’s ultimate source. 
In November 2011, Verizon and many other companies that use these minerals joined the 
Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade  (PPA) (Click to view related blog post) . 
The PPA is a joint initiative of the U.S. State Department, the U.S. Agency for International 
Development, private sector companies and trade associations, civil society, and the International 
Conference on the Great Lakes Region. These organizations are collectively calling for action 
to address conflict minerals concerns while delivering solutions that benefit those involved in 
responsible minerals trade in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Great Lakes Region 
of Central Africa. One of the primary goals of the PPA is to develop pilot programs that result 
in scalable, self-sustaining systems that enable businesses to source fully-traced and validated 
minerals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
As these new programs are improved, the supply chain becomes more transparent and our 
manufacturers can better identify the sources of minerals in our mobile phones and other 
products, Verizon and other companies will be able take additional proactive measures to 
address this challenging problem. 
There is much more work to be done, but we at Verizon are committed to taking responsible 
steps to ensure that products we receive from our suppliers are responsibly sourced and that 
the minerals trade with the Democratic Republic of the Congo promotes positive economic 
development for the region. 2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com42
PROFILE & PERFORMANCE
AWARD AND HONORS
Corporate Citizenship
Verizon earned a No. 1 ranking in the telecommunications sector in Fortune magazine’s 2012 
list of the World’s Most Admired Companies. 
Verizon was named to CR magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens list for 2011. We made 
the list for the fourth consecutive year.
Verizon has been named to the G.I. Jobs Top 100 Military-Friendly Employers List for 2012, 
in recognition of the company’s military recruiting and hiring practices.
Military Spouse magazine ranked Verizon among the Top 20 military spouse-friendly companies 
for recruitment, hiring practices, retention policies and programs..
Civilian Jobs News ranked Verizon among the Top 35 Most Valuable Employers for Military.
In 2011, Thinkfinity won EdNET’s Best Award in the “Teachers Select” category for being one 
of the top five most useful free online resources.
Diversity | Workplace | Innovation
Verizon’s continued efforts to create a diverse workforce and an inclusive work environment 
have again earned the company a ranking on the DiversityInc  2011 lists of Top 50 Companies 
for Diversity.
For the 11th consecutive year, Verizon was named to Working Mother  magazine’s list of the 
100 Best Companies for Working Mothers.
Verizon is ranked third on Training Magazine’s  2011 Training Top 125, a list of companies 
that have the best training and development programs for employees. 
For the ninth year in a row, Verizon Wireless has been recognized as one of the top workplaces 
for information technology professionals. With its highest ranking to date, Verizon Wireless 
placed fifth on Computerworld’s “Best Places to Work in IT” list.CR’s 
2011PROFILE AND PERFORMANCE  / A WARD AND HONORS 43
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comFor the third consecutive year, Verizon earned a spot on the National Business Group on 
Health’s 2010 list of Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles.
Verizon was No. 10 on Diversity MBA Magazine’s  2011 list of Top 50 Companies for Diverse 
Managers.
Environmental | Social | Governance
For the past three years, Verizon has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability North 
American Index, which lists leading companies as measured by governance, social and 
environmental performance.
Verizon and DLA Piper won the 2011 Pro Bono Partner Award for developing a large, 
integrated pro-bono program.
Verizon was named to Newsweek’s  North American Green rankings for the third consecutive 
year, in the top 100 on the magazine’s U.S. 500 list.
Verizon is included on the following socially responsible investment lists: FTSE4Good Index, 
Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register and Calvert Large Cap Value Fund.
Verizon is included on the Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index, a list of 100 top-performing 
companies in the U.S. selected for their climate-related innovation and carbon-management 
programs.
The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection gave Verizon its 2011 Recycling 
Award for efforts to promote recycling in the company and the community.
Verizon received the Groundbreaker Award at the 2011 Clean Economy Summit for fostering 
the development and adoption of new technologies and business practices that advance a 
clean economy.2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com44
PROFILE & PERFORMANCE
COMPANY PROFILE
INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNTIES
$ in Billions
2011 2010 2009
Capital Investment 16.2 16.5 16.9
Income and Other Taxes Paid, Net of 
Refunds3.9 3.7 3.6
Salaries & Wages 15.4 15.3 16.2
Purchase from Diverse suppliers 3.8 3.8 3.8
Dividends to Shareowners 5.6 5.4 5.3
Pension and Other Retirement Payments 4.3 3.7 4.32011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com45
PROFILE & PERFORMANCE
EMPLOYEE PROFILE
2011 EMPLOYEE PROFILE
 
Total Workforce (2011) 
Total Workforce (2010)2010 Total U.S.  
Labor Force
Ethnic Groups
American Indian/Alaskan 
Native947 0.5% 1,280 0.7% 0.7%
Asian 9,335 5.2% 8,596 4.7% 6.6%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific 
Islander613 0.3% 549 0.3% 0.2%
Black/African American 35,763 19.8% 36,032 19.7% 10.8%
Hispanic/Latino 18,926 10.5% 19,388 10.6% 14.2%
Two Races or More 3,000 1.7% 2,743 1.5% 1.9%
White 112,418 62.1% 114,314 62.5% 65.7%
Total US 181,002 182,902 100.0%
International 12,898 11,498
Total Worldwide 193,900 194,400
By Gender (U.S.)
Female 70,862 39.1% 73,344 40.1% 47.3%
Male 110,140 60.9% 109,558 59.9% 52.7%
Total U.S. 181,002 182,902
By Gender (International)
Female 3,019 23.4% 2,599 22.6%
Male 9,879 76.6% 8,899 77.4%
Total International 12,898 11,498
By Gender (Worldwide)
Female 73,904 38.1% 75,943 39.1%
Male 119,996 61.9% 118,457 60.9%
Total Worldwide 193,900 194,400
People of color represent 24.9 percent of senior management (vice president and above).
Women represent 29.1 percent of senior management (vice president and above).2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com46
PROFILE & PERFORMANCE
INDEPENDENT REVIEW
For the fourth consecutive year, we supplemented our day-to-day outreach to our stakeholders 
by engaging an independent research organization, Penn Schoen & Berland Associates 
(PSB), to poll people from the NGOs, third-party organizations, and think tanks with which 
we regularly work.
Our objective is to understand the social and philanthropic issues that are most important to 
our stakeholders and their organizations.
PSB conducted interviews with 32 people from various organizations between December 16, 
2011 and January 31, 2012. Following is their report. 
PSB RESEARCH FINDINGS
1. Stakeholders give Verizon’s corporate responsibility programs very high ratings (see Chart 1).
■■About 4 in 10 consider Verizon’s CR programs to be excellent; 8 in 10 consider 
them to be excellent or good. 
44% 58% 45% 45% 39% 39% 35%
12% 10%3%16% 16% 13% 13%36% 26% 45% 32% 29% 42% 39%
9%6%
6%6%16%
6% 13%
Average of 6 
programsDomestic 
Violence 
PreventionEnviron -
mentAccessibil -
ityOnline 
safetyWireless 
safetyThinkfinityExcellent
Good
Fair
Poor
Don’t knowPROFILE AND PERFORMANCE  / INDEPENDENT  REVIEW 47
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comChart 1 — “Based on this description and anything else you may already know about 
this program, would you rate this program as excellent, good, fair or poor?”
2. But, awareness of Verizon’s CR programs is not as high as it could be (see Chart 2 and 3).
■■Awareness could be higher: 1 in 3 stakeholders say they don’t know how to rate 
Verizon’s CR programs.
■■Communication Lacking: Only 1 in 4 say Verizon is very good at communicating 
about its corporate reputation.
 
 
Chart 2 — “Given what you already 
know about them, how would you 
rate Verizon’s social, educational 
and environmental programs?” Chart 3 — “Do you think that Verizon does 
a very good, somewhat good, somewhat 
bad or very bad job of communicating their 
corporate responsibility?”
3. As a result, Verizon’s CR record does not stand out from competitors (see Chart 4).
■■Verizon’s involvement in communities and overall social responsibility is seen by 
48 percent and 61 percent as the same as other companies.
■■Between 13 percent and 52 percent of stakeholders report don’t know how to 
rate Verizon against competitors; verbatims indicate that they don’t have enough 
information to do so.
 23%
61%
13%26%
42%
32%
3%
All AllExcellent
Good
Fair
Poor
Don’t knowVery good
Somewhat good
Somewhat bad
Very bad
Don’t knowPROFILE AND PERFORMANCE  / INDEPENDENT  REVIEW 48
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comChart 4 — “How would you rate Verizon’s [ATTRIBUTE] compared to other large 
companies such as GE, IBM, Wal-Mart, or Johnson & Johnson?”
4. Verizon has an opportunity to get more credit for its CR programs by improving 
communications.
We have evaluated PSB’s recommendations and are incorporating them into our corporate 
responsibility communications plans for 2012.Better than other 
large companies
Same
Worse
Don’t know32% 35% 13% 19%
26% 26% 16% 32%
26% 48% 23% 3%
19% 13% 16% 52%
19% 61% 6% 13%Meaningful 
contributions
Treatment of 
customers
Involvement in 
communities
Treatment of 
employees
Overall social 
responsibility2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com49
PROFILE & PERFORMANCE
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ETHICS
ETHICS & GOVERNANCE
What we said we’d do What we did What we’ll do next
Update the content of our 
privacy policy, providing 
additional information to 
consumers about Verizon’s 
advertising practices.Updated our privacy policy to reflect 
new products, services and uses 
of information and to describe the 
choices provided to customers. 
We also reorganized the policy to 
provide greater clarity and ease of 
use.Enhance “Privacy by Design” 
review processes in the 
development of new products 
and services enterprisewide.
Poll managers in the company 
to identify any real or potential 
conflicts of interest.Administered our Conflict of 
Interest Questionnaire to our 
leadership team and Supply 
Chain Services organization, and 
addressed all identified or potential 
conflicts.Administer the Conflict of 
Interest Questionnaire to our 
leadership team and Supply 
Chain Services organization in 
2012.
Boost recognition of Verizon’s 
performance as a good 
corporate citizen among 
socially responsible investing 
firms.Included on the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index for three 
consecutive years and on the 
Maplecroft Climate Innovation 
index, the FTSE4Good index, and the 
Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment 
Register.Continue to work with the 
socially responsible investment 
community to understand 
best practices in corporate 
responsibility reporting.
Conduct follow-up poll to the 
2010 reputation study to gauge 
progress with key stakeholders.We conducted a follow-up poll 
and results are available at the 
Independent Review  page.
Conduct Verizon Code of 
Conduct training to reaffirm 
our commitment to the highest 
ethical standards.PROFILE AND PERFORMANCE  / KEY  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 50
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comCOMMUNITY IMPACT
What we said we’d do What we did What we’ll do next
Conduct research on 
effectiveness of technology in 
higher education.Northeastern University, on behalf 
of the Verizon Foundation, surveyed 
1,000 teachers nationwide to 
understand potential differences 
in technology use among teachers 
and generate a true estimate of the 
awareness of Thinkfinity’s digital 
content and partner sites. The 
research showed that:
1. Thinkfinity was ranked 8th out of 
600 sites named by teachers as a 
“favorite resource. ”
2. 88% of teachers searched online 
to find resources to help with 
lesson planning.
3. 86% feel that technology will play 
a larger role in how they teach.
(Source: Northeastern University Study Results)Education
Provide comprehensive support 
to schools and community 
organizations by aligning our 
education philanthropy with 
core company strengths — 
network, content, devices — to 
create digital classrooms with 
high student achievement 
in science, technology, 
engineering and math (STEM) 
subjects.
Health Care
Deliver innovative Health Care 
solutions through technology-
based programs in Mobile 
Health, Remote Disease 
Management and Virtual Care, 
addressing the disparities of 
access to health care services 
for underserved communities.
Sustainability
Launch philanthropic initiatives 
that emphasize smart energy 
management and increase 
sustainability awareness and 
education for underserved 
communities.
Employee Engagement
Increase employee involvement 
in foundation social cause areas 
through volunteerism programs 
and events.
Domestic Violence Prevention
Address health care issues in 
domestic violence with the help 
of enhanced technology.Promote Thinkfinity as a 
solution for improving primary 
and secondary education.Funded technology purchases and 
provided Thinkfinity training and 
support in underserved schools that 
are working to integrate technology 
into teaching and learning.
Expanded and broadened the 
Thinkfinity Community as “the go-to 
place” for educators to find expert 
and peer support on Thinkfinity’s 
digital content and technology 
integration. At year-end, there 
were more than 40,000 registered 
members.
Create new local employee 
volunteer councils to spur 
greater involvement.Coordinated local employee 
volunteer teams to collect and 
distribute donated supplies to 
non-profit organizations, primarily 
domestic violence shelters and K–12 
schools.
Raise awareness of domestic 
violence issues among men and 
teens by reaching 500,000 men 
and 125,000 teens.Through Training Camps for Life 
and partnership with NFL Players 
Association and A Call to Men, 
hosted a satellite media tour with 
Coach Sean Payton reaching nearly 
11.2 million viewers.
Expand outreach of Telling 
Amy’s Story documentary on 
domestic violence awareness.Telling Amy’s Story, since its initial 
launch in May 2010, has aired in 
384 local public television stations. 
In 2011, it aired in 125 local public 
television stations. We also held 67 
employee screenings attended by 
3,073 employees.PROFILE AND PERFORMANCE  / KEY  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 51
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comEMPOWERING EMPLOYEES
What we said we’d do What we did What we’ll do next
Target key locations that 
have a concentration of 
diverse employees for on-site 
preventive care and early 
detection initiatives.We expanded our on-site 
mammography screenings to work 
locations with a high concentration 
of women, especially minority 
women over 40. We have increased 
participation by 79%.Enhance preventive resources 
to address disparities in 
diabetes care and help 
employees better manage this 
condition.
Advance legislative initiatives 
that focus on cost containment 
and accelerated deployment of 
health information technology, 
patient safety and evidence-
based medical practices.As the founding member of the 
Health IT NOW Coalition, we 
participated in activities highlighting 
the need for an interoperability 
electronic health systems. We 
advocated for federal legislation 
that would protect consumers and 
providers for adverse events related 
to electronic health records.Enhance preventive resources 
to address disparities in 
diabetes care and help 
employees better manage this 
condition.
Through our membership in the 
Catalyst for Payment Reform 
organization, we worked to improve 
health care quality and reduce costs 
by identifying and coordinating 
workable solutions for an affordable 
health care system in the U.S.
Launch a company-wide 
“Career” website to increase 
Verizon’s reach to emerging 
college talent.Launched VZCareers , a new, 
customizable job application website  
that includes real-time notifications 
for applicants and drill-down career 
focus areas. The site is available 
for emerging college talent and all 
workforce applicants.Continue collaboration with 
Catalyst for Payment Reform 
members to identify and 
coordinate workable solutions 
that help improve health care 
quality and reduce health care 
costs in the U.S.
Conduct our biennial 
“Viewpoints” employee opinion 
survey.PROFILE AND PERFORMANCE  / KEY  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 52
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comACCESSIBILITY
What we said we’d do What we did What we’ll do next
Partner with insurance 
companies to incorporate 
responsible cell phone usage 
while driving in driver training 
programs.Our “Please don’t text and drive” 
campaign materials are online to 
help educate drivers and insurance 
companies on the hazards of 
distracted driving.
Introduce a menu of 
applications for tablets 
and handsets that enhance 
accessibility.Consumers can now search the 
Android Marketplace for a list of 
accessible applicationsIntroduce a screen reader 
application for Android 
smartphones and tablets.
Launch a voicemail-to-text 
product and a personal 
emergency response system.Launch of the voicemail-to-text 
product and the personal emergency 
response system have been pushed 
back into 2012.Introduce the Mobile 
Emergency Response Personal 
System in April 2012.
Introduce the voicemail-to-text 
product later in 2012.
Work with federal lawmakers 
and disability advocates to 
shape implementation rules for 
new federal accessibility law.Worked with federal lawmakers and 
advocacy groups to shape the rule 
making for new federal accessibility 
law.Continue working with federal 
lawmakers and advocacy groups 
to shape the rule making for 
new federal accessibility law.
Release a new version of 
the FiOS TV Interactive 
Media Guide that will offer 
menu customization, easier 
navigation and audio feedback.Introduced a new version of the FiOS 
TV Interactive Media Guide that 
provides larger images, background 
colors that are easier to read and 
an online version that is compatible 
with screen reader software.Offer first-run video described 
movies as part of our growing 
video-on-demand library
Include audio feedback features 
in the FiOS TV Interactive 
Media GuidePROFILE AND PERFORMANCE  / KEY  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 53
2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.comSUSTAINABILITY
What we said we’d do What we did What we’ll do next
Improve carbon-intensity 
efficiency year-over-year by 
15% in 2011.Improved carbon-intensity 
efficiency by 17.45% in 2011.In 2012, we will reduce 
our carbon-intensity by an 
additional 10%. Our long-term 
goal is to reduce our carbon 
intensity 50% from our 2009 
baseline by 2020.
Increase the percentage of 
alternative-fuel vehicles in the 
fleet toward our target of 15% 
by 2015.Increased our total alternative-
fueled vehicles to 2,569, 6.6% of our 
total fleet.Continue progress toward our 
2015 goal of 15% alternative-
fueled vehicles.
Expand the Green Supplier 
survey program to our top 200 
vendors.Received responses survey from 
107 suppliers.Receive Green Supplier survey 
responses from 200 suppliers.
Expand the Smart Building 
technology program to a total 
of 250 facilities by 2015.Added 67 buildings to our Smart 
Building technology program, 
bringing total to 83.Continue toward goal of 250 
smart buildings by 2015.
Implement our energy 
efficiency standards programs 
at 75% of our facilities with 
200 or more people.Combined the energy efficiency 
standards program with the Smart 
Building technology program.
Expand Verizon Green 
Team membership to 5,000 
employees.Exceeded objective with more than 
6,000 Green Team members.Expand Verizon Green Team 
membership to 10,000 
employees worldwide by the 
end of 2012.
Develop an Energy Efficiency & 
Security position statement.Developed an energy position 
statement that incorporates 
feedback provided by environmental 
groups in our Sustainability 
Roundtable. It is under review by 
senior management.Publicize our energy position 
statement.
Test water conservation 
measures at major facilities in 
drought-prone regions during 
2011– 12.Evaluated water consumption at 20 
Verizon facilities.Formalize water metrics 
at facilities, identify best 
practices and implement 
savings strategies.
Collect 1 million pounds of 
e-waste through community and 
employee recycling rallies by 
the end of 2012.2011 VERIZON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLEMENT responsibility.verizon.com54
WHO 
WE 
ARE
WE HAVE WORK BECAUSE OUR CUSTOMERS VALUE OUR 
HIGH-QUALITY COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
We deliver superior customer experiences through  
our products and our actions. Everything we do we build 
on a strong network, systems and process foundation. 
The quality and reliability of the products we deliver are 
paramount. Customers pay us to provide them with services 
that they can rely on.
WE FOCUS OUTWARD ON THE CUSTOMER, NOT INWARD. 
WE MAKE IT EASY FOR CUSTOMERS TO DO BUSINESS 
WITH US, BY LISTENING, ANTICIPATING AND RESPONDING 
TO THEIR NEEDS.
We know our products and can explain them to customers. 
We focus on fundamental execution. We are accountable 
and we follow through with a sense of urgency. We know 
that having the highest ethical standards is a competitive 
advantage.WE KNOW TEAMWORK ENABLES US TO SERVE OUR 
CUSTOMERS BETTER AND FASTER. WE EMBRACE 
DIVERSITY AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT NOT ONL Y 
BECAUSE IT’S THE RIGHT THING TO DO, BUT ALSO 
BECAUSE IT’S SMART BUSINESS.
We are driven not by ego but by accomplishments. We keep 
our commitments to each other and our customers. Our 
word is our contract. We respect and trust one another, 
communicating openly, candidly and directly since any other 
way is unfair and a waste of time. We voice our opinion and 
exercise constructive dissent, and then rally around the 
agreed-upon action with our full support. Any one of us can 
deliver a view or idea to anyone else, and listen to and value 
another’s view regardless of title or level. Ideas live and die 
on their merits rather than where they were invented.
WE BELIEVE INTEGRITY IS AT THE CORE OF WHO  
WE ARE. IT ESTABLISHES THE TRUST THAT IS CRITICAL TO 
THE RELATIONSHIPS WE HAVE.
We are committed to do the right thing and follow sound 
business practices in dealing with our customers, suppliers, 
owners and competitors. Our competitors are not enemies; 
they are challengers who drive us to improve. We are good 
corporate citizens and share our success with the community 
to make the world in which we work better than it was 
yesterday.
WE KNOW THAT BIGNESS IS NOT OUR STRENGTH,  
BEST IS OUR STRENGTH.
Bureaucracy is an enemy. We fight every day to stay “small” 
and keep bureaucracy out. We are more agile than companies 
a fraction of our size, because we act fast and take risks 
every day. We see crisis and change as opportunities, not 
threats. We run to a crisis, not away. Change energizes us.  
We work hard, take action and take personal accountability 
for getting things done. Our actions produce measurable 
results.
EVERYTHING WE DO IS BUIL T ON THE STRONG 
FOUNDATION OF OUR CORPORATE VALUES.
We work 24x7 because our customers depend on us 24x7. 
We know our best was good for today. Tomorrow we’ll do 
better.
We Are VERIZON
INTEGRITY• RESPECT • PERFORMANCE EXCELLENCE • ACCOUNTABILITY