Environmental, 
Social  and 
Governance 
Report
2021
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
2Overview 2
About us 3
About this report 4
Executive statements 5
Our sustainability journey 9
Governance & strategy 10
Our purpose 11
Our ESG strategy 12
Stakeholder engagement 14
ESG governance 15
Risk management 20
Trust and transparency 21
Economic & innovation 24
Our business model 25
Year in review 26
Market opportunities 27
How we create value 29
Investment in R&D 31
Sourcing and manufacturing excellence 32
Sustainable procurement 34
Environmental 35
Environmental targets and progress 37
Environmental management 38
Our climate change commitment 39
Greenhouse gas emissions 40
Energy resource management 42
Transportation 44
Sustainable operations and products 45
Waste management 49
Water stewardship 51
Biodiversity 52
Supply chain 54
Social 55
Social targets and progress 57
Our people 58
Our customers 72
Supply  chain 74
Responsible practices 75
Giving back 76Introduction
Videndum aims t o be a sustainable business,  minimising our imp act  on the environment,  supporting and 
working t o improve the societies  in which we operate.  Our rigorous governance framework ensures  t he 
business's  longev ity and minimises risks t o our op erations.  Our collaborative ap proach to ESG focuses on the 
material issues that aﬀect  our b usiness and stakeholders.  The introduction of our annual  standalone ESG 
Report  reﬂects our commit ment  to ESG,  measuring our year-on-year performance and long-term aspirations. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
3About  us
Videndum is a lead ing global provider of 
premium branded  hardware products and 
software solutions  to t he growing content 
creation market.  O ur customers  includ e 
broadcasters,  ﬁlm studios,  production and rental 
companies,  photographers,  ind ependent 
content  creators ("ICCs"),  vloggers,  inﬂuencers, 
gamers,  p rofessional sound  crews and 
enterp
rises.  We emp loy around  2,000 p eople in 
11 diﬀerent  countries  and are organised  in  three 
Divisions:
Media Solutions, Production  Solutions and 
Creative Solutions.
Videndum's  purpose is to enab le our customers 
to
 capture and share exceptional cont ent. Our 
portfolio of market-leading brand s 
encompasses a variety of technologies 
d
esigned  and engineered  to  ensure that, 
whatever the conditions,  the content  creator has 
the best equipment  t o capture the moment. 
These technologies  range from traditional 
mechanically  engineered  products,  such as 
manual camera supports,  t o electronics and 
software. 
We
 sell our products globally  via multiple 
distribution channels , our ow n sales teams,  and 
e-commerce via our own and t hird-party 
web
sites. Creative Solutions
The Creative Solutions  Division  develops, 
manufactures and distributes premium 
branded  products and solutions  for ﬁlm and 
video production  companies,  ICCs,  gamers, 
enterprises and b roadcasters.  Products 
include  wireless video transmission  and lens 
control systems,  monitors,  camera  
accessories,  live streaming and I P  video 
devices,  and software applications.Our Divisions
Media Solutions
The Media Solutions  Division  designs, 
manufactures  and distributes premium branded  
equipment  for photographic/v ideo cameras and 
smartphones,  and provides dedicated  solutions 
to professional and amateur  photographers, 
videographers , ICCs,  vloggers /inﬂuencers,  
gamers,  ent erprises and professional sound  
crews.  This includes  camera  supports  and 
heads,  smartphone accessories,  light ing 
supports,  LED lighting,  lighting controls,  motion  
control,  audio capture and noise  reduction 
equipment,  camera bags and backgrounds.
Production Solutions
The Production Solutions  Division designs, 
manufactures and distributes p remium branded 
and technically  advanced  products and solutions  
for broadcasters,  ﬁlm and video production 
companies,  ICCs and enterprises.  P roducts  
include video heads,  tripods,  LED lighting,  
prompters,  robotic camera systems  and mobile 
power solutions.  It also supplies premium 
services includ ing  equipment  rental  and 
technical  solutions.
Capture. Share.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
4About this report
Both mandatory  and voluntary  ESG disclosures 
have
 been considered  in  the creat ion of 
Videndum's  ESG strategy:
The En
ergy Savings Opportunity Scheme 
(“
ESOS”)  is a mandatory energy  audit  that 
Videndum must carry out every four years to 
assess the energy used  by our UK b uildings. 
The energy eﬃciency  measures suggested  in 
the most  recent  UK site surveys inform our 
carbon reduction milestones discussed  within 
our environment
al section on page 35.
The Streamlined  Energy and Carbon 
Rep
orting  (“SECR”)  requires Videndum to 
d
isclose its energy usage,  associat ed 
emissions,  energy eﬃ ciency  actions  and energy 
performance
 implemented  by  the Companies 
(Directors'  Report)  and Limited  Liabilit y 
Partnerships 
(E
nergy and Carbon Report ) Regulations 2018. 
The details  of this report  can be f ound  on page 
58 of our 2021 Annual Report.
The Task Force on Climate-Related  Financial 
Disclosures (“TCFD”)  mandated  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA)  requires UK 
p
remium-listed  companies  to report  against  the 
TCFD on
 a “comply or explain”  b asis, eﬀective 
for
 periods beginning on  or after 1 January 
2021.  Videndum's climate-related  ﬁnancial 
disclosures can
 be  found  in the Group's TCFD 
Report  2021,  and on page  52 in the 2021 
Annual Report.
The Carbo
n Disclosure Project (“CDP”)  is an 
international voluntary  disclosure focusing on 
environmental impact  management,  and we will submit  our annual  CDP Climat e Response  in 
summer 2022.
The Global  Reporting  Initiative (“GRI”)  is an 
internation al voluntary  ESG reporting standards  
framework  enablin g organisations  to report  on 
their economic,  environmental,  social and 
governan ce performance.  This ESG Report 
outlines  Videndum's 2021 ESG progress and 
has been reported  on in accordance  with the 
GRI guidance.
We follow  the Greenhouse  Gas (“GHG”)  
Protocol  Corporat e Standard s and Guidance  
for companies  to prepare  our annual  GHG  
emissions inventory.  In 2021 we prepared  our 
ﬁrst GHG  inventory for Scop e 1, 2 and 3 
emissions  using 2020 as our baseline  for our 
Scope  3 (value chain)  emissions.  Our GHG  
invent ory is on page 40 of this report.
We intend  to align our net zero carbon strategy 
with the Science-Based  Targets Initiative  
(“SBTi”),  demonstratin g our commitment  to the 
UK's Nationally  Determined  Contribution  
("NDC") 2020 under the Paris  Agreement  2015 
to limit global warming to 1.5oC. The NDC 
commits  the UK to reducing  economy-wide 
GHG  by at least 68% by 2030,  compared  to 
1990 levels.  Videndum's carbon reduction 
targets  are detailed  on page 37, and the 
Group's  net zero roadmap  is laid out on page 
39.We have aligned our ESG strategy and 
performance to the United Nations Sustainable  
Development Goals (“SDGs”) , speciﬁcally SGD12 
Responsible Consumption and Production and  
SDG13 Climate Action. Our Diversity and Inclusion  
strategy discussed on page 59 looks to contribute  
towards SDG5 Gender Equality. Our community 
eﬀorts detailed on page 76 to 81 intend to 
contribute towards SDG4 Quality Education and 
SDG
8 Decent Work . 
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
5“We are a small comp any with a global footprint  and are commit ted to working 
responsibly.  We have a coordinated  Group-wid e ap proach to ESG,  focusing on the 
material issues aﬀect ing our business and stakeholders.  We engage with our stakeholders 
–includ ing our employees,  shareholders,  customers,  supply chain and rating agencies – to
develop,  deliver and evolve the Group' s ESG strategy accord ing to their needs.
Our strategy includ es clear objectives and targets,  priorit ising actions that deliver the most 
signiﬁcant  impact.  It is designed  to positively contribut e to the success of the Company, 
reduce the impact  of the business on the environment,  priorit ise the health and safet y of 
our employees,  and improve the diversit y and inclusivit y of our workplaces.  We have 
worked  closely with an independ
ent, s pecialist  ESG consult ancy to develop  our strategy 
and improve our disclosure by collect ing detailed  data and comprehensively,  clearly and 
consistent ly report ing our progress and credentials.”
Stephen  Bird,  Group  Chief ExecutiveStatement from Stephen Bird, Group Chief Executive 
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
6Media Solutions CEO statement
As an innovat ion company,  committed  to 
support ing contemp orary content  creat ors t o 
capture and share except ional audiov isual 
content,  we hav
e taken a holist ic approach to 
E
SG. To reduce our environment al impact,  we are 
creat ing 
a circular economy approach to our new 
prod
uct development  initiatives.  In addition, 
during 2022 we plan to implement  over 50 
projects  designed  to increase the use of 
renewab le energy and promot e responsible 
consumpt ion and p
roduction.  We are 
progressively introd ucing Life Cycle Assessment  
methodologies  across the entir e product  portfolio 
and all new product  development  initiatives.
Our Divisional CSR projects  support  our 
communities  as well as aiming to increase 
environment al aw
areness b y visually 
document ing the impact  of global w
arming, 
p
articular ly on the oceans and the world’ s largest 
glaciers.  In addition,  our “Peop le Focus”  HR plan 
is d
esigned  to increas ingly promot e diversit y and 
employee adopt ion of best environment al 
practices both at work and in their pers onal lives.
Videndum Media Solutions supports millions of 
photograp hers and videograp hers in capturing 
and sharing the beauty,  the cultur e and the 
d
iversity of the world  – embracing ESG best 
pract ice is an integral part of our purpose and a 
great  source of motivat ion and pride to us all.”“In today's globally interconnected  world  wit h 
the pressing requirement  for sustainable 
development
, it's more important  than ever for 
companies  to creat e long-t
erm value which 
beneﬁts the environment,  society  and the 
economy.  At Videndum Media Solutions,  ESG 
practices have been integrat ed as one of the 
core p
illars of our growt h strategy.
We are committed  to further reducing our carb on 
footp
rint, to increas ing our diversit y and to giving 
back to our communit ies through photography 
and videograp hy in order to drive posit ive social, 
environment al and economic impact,  w hile 
increasing our brand equity,  employee 
engagement  and sharehold er value. Marco Pezzana, Divisional CEO
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
7
Production Solutions CEO statement 
·Action to promote environmental
stewardship and the preservation of
resources;
·Action to make a positive impact on people
and communities;
·Action to build an inclusive workplace in
which everyone is respected, valued and
inspired to contribute; and
·Action to improve physical and mental
wellbeing to enable a better quality of life.
These actions contribut e to sustainable 
economic growth,  enhance our business  
resilience and deliver  a posit ive impact  for our 
stakeholders,  includ ing customers,  
employees,  shareholders  and communities. ·Solar photovolt aic panels installed  at our
sites in Costa Rica and the UK can generat e
more than a third of the electricit y we need .
·
·Improvements to our carbon ﬁbre production
line have reduced  waste materials by over 90%
while upgrades  to machinery are saving over
6,000 litres of water per year.
We are introd ucing sustainability-focused
design principles into packaging by using
biodegradab le alternatives  to plastic bags,
remov ing glue and adhesive labels,  and printing
directly  onto boxes.
These projects are aligned  to Videndum's  
commercial 
objectives,  creating  value for the 
business  while driving  down our carbon footprint, 
helping us to reach  our carbon neutral goal.
People  are our number  one priority  and we are 
committed  to being an employer of choice.  Our 
“Hire2Develop”  responsible  hiring strategy invests  
in junior  employees,  providing training and support 
to develop  their careers  at Videndum.  This 
successful  programme has helped  69 employees 
with career  advancement  in the last three  years.
We are proud  of the achievements we have made 
so far and will continue  to focus on actions  that 
create  a positive  environment  in which to work  and 
live. These actions  are not only the right thing to 
do, but they are also vital to build a sustainable 
future for our business  and our communities.”
Nicola Dal Toso,  Divisional  CEO
“A
t Videndum Production Solut ions, 
“Action4Good”  is the cornerstone  of our ESG 
programme:Manufact uring processes  use valuab le resources, 
includ ing energy,  water and raw materials.  We are 
reducing our environment al impact  by generating 
renewab le energy,  reducing waste materials and 
using sustainab le packaging:2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
8Creative Solutions CEO statement 
Marco Vidali, Divisional CEO 
Sustainability  in ﬁlm p roduction incorporat es 
socially  and environmentally responsible 
decision making
 into the p re-production and 
production of the ﬁlm. There is an economic 
b
eneﬁt  as well. Cost savings associated  with 
sustainable production practices increasingly  are 
being highlight
ed as part of the ﬁlm p roject’s  
business
 case.  An init iative we took this year 
successfully  reduced  both paper waste and 
product  costs signiﬁcantly.  By replacing our 
traditional print product  guides with a simple QR 
code,  we were able to link  the customer to the 
latest  product  information,  minus the  excess use 
of paper.  Not o
nly does this support  sustainable 
cost savings,  it modernises  the customer 
exp
erience,  b
ringing added  value to our brand  
equit
y and digital transf ormation.
As Videndum Creat ive Solutions  continues to 
grow  in 
the medical and construction industries, 
the same
 principles will  apply:  helping our 
customers create sustainable businesses with 
minimal impact  on the environment , thus 
improving the communities in which they 
op
erate. 
Videndum Creative S olutions is on an ESG 
journey,  focused  on long-ter m, high-impact  
enhancement
s which will have  a signiﬁcant  eﬀect 
on our corporate footprint.  How ever, even small 
steps - like changing  product  packaging to 
eliminate waste and the carbon  oﬀset  from direct 
e-commerce shipments - are imp ortant  steps 
toward  that goal. "  “The importance of a strong ESG strategy 
continues to grow as t
he world faces the 
challenges of a global pandemic and worsening 
climate crisis. In the 
ﬁlm and video production 
industry in particular, ﬁlm 
productions must 
consider their impact on t
he community around 
them and look to their 
technology partners to 
positively impact their E
SG initiatives. 
Social equity in the ﬁlm 
and television industry 
has become a key focus, 
not only on the big 
screen, but also for creators and stories that are 
told. One of 
our key ESG initiatives for 2021 was 
collaborating with “Made 
in Her Image”, a non-
proﬁt dedicated to the advancement of young 
girls and women in ﬁlm, media and technology. 
This partnership allowed us to bring education 
and awareness to an 
unders erved demographic, 
while encouraging and celebrating 
long-term 
representation on and oﬀ set. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
2022
2024
2025
2026
2030
2035
2045- Develop  net zero strategy
- Improve Scop e 3 data collect ion
- Carry out feasibility  study for electric vehicle charging capacity
- Convert  to LED lights across the Group
- Expand  external health and safety reporting
- Renew  governance initiat ives includ ing Code of Conduct,  whistleblowing,
third-part y due diligence and reputat ional risk training for senior  management
- Reduce Scop e 1 and 2 emissions by 25% from our 2019 baseline
- 25% of ﬂeet electric/hybrid
- S
witch to renewab le energy contracts across the Group
- Reduce business air travel by 50% from our 2019 baseline
- 50% reduct ion in annual consumpt ion of single-use plastics
- Aspiration for Lowepro b ags full product  range to be made from 100% recycled
fabric
- Product  life cycle (
cradle to grave)  for ﬁve of the top-emitt ing p roducts we sell
- Supplier-speciﬁc data from our top ﬁve biggest  suppliers
- Carb on neutral for Scop e 1 and 2
- I
mprove the Group's overall gend er diversity from 70%  men, 30% women.  At a
senior leaders hip level,  we expect  the ratio of women to be at least 30%
- Reduce Scop e 1 and 2 emissions  by 75% from our 2019 baseline
- Reach net zero for Scop e 1 and 2
- Reach net zero for S
cope 3
9Our sustainability journey
2021 ESG highlights
Environment
● Calculated Scope 3 emissions
● Conducted site surveys to establish
energy-saving opportunities
● Solar energy systems implemented in
Bury St E
dmunds, UK and Cartago,
Costa Rica
● Secured renewable energy contracts in
Italy, the UK and Costa Rica
Social
Governance
● Established an ESG Committee
● Expanded our ESG disclosures to
include standalone TCFD and ESG
Reports● Zero accidents resulting in over three
days’ absence
● 95% of employees feel that their safety,
health and wellbeing are a high priority
for the Company
● Developed a new Diversity and Inclusion
(“D&I”) strategy with targets and action
plansGovernan ce & Strategy
We have a coordinated  Group-wid e approach  to ESG,  focusing 
on th e material  issues that aﬀect our busin ess and our 
stakeholders.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
11Our purpose
Enabling the capture and sharing of 
exceptional content
“Videndum has a clear p urpose and 
strategy,  and strongly  b elieves in doing 
business  the right way. Throughout  
2021,  the Company  has cont inued  
developing it s ESG agenda and 
ensured  a focused  and coordinated  
Group-wide approach to ESG.” 
Stephen Bird
Group Chief ExecutiveOur approach
W
e are a small company with a global footprint 
and are comm itted  to work ing responsibly.  In 
2021,  we worked  closely  w ith an independent  
specialist  ESG consultancy  t o develop  our E SG  
strategy and t o improve our  disclosure by 
collecting detailed  data and comprehensively,  
clearly and consistently reporting our p rogress 
and credentials.  
Our core  values  and p urpose drive our business 
decisions  and Cod e of Conduct,  and all our 
decisions  ar e made with a focus on the impact  
they may have on our ﬁve main  stakeholder 
group
s (customers,  suppliers , employees,  
shareholders,  communities  and t he 
environments  in which we operate).   Our core values
We have a clear p urpose t hat  is founded  on a set 
of core values  t hat form the Videndum Mindset: 
Exce ptional product performanc e
We set the highest  standards of t echnical 
performance
Customer focus
We are not hing without  our customers
Leading a fast-changing  market
We apply our creat ivity  and harness  our 
diversity t o engineer innovative new products 
and solutions
Global capability
We share knowledge,  pool resources,  t est 
ideas and learn f rom each other
Transparency , integrity, respect
We hold to the highest  professional and 
corporate standards2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMI C & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
12Responsible practices
We are constantly improving our practices 
and processes to ensure  safe and responsible 
operations  and an ethical  supply  chain.
Under  these broad categories,  we have seven 
key pillars as listed  on page 13.Our key focus areas
Environment
We ad
opt technologies,  materials and 
processes that ensure we minimise  our impact  
on the environment  and maximise  our use of 
sustainable resources.
Our people
To attract,  retain  and grow  a talented  and 
diverse workforce,  provid ing equal 
opportunities  for all, while  nurturing  a sense of 
pride in being  part of Videndum.  We prioritise  
the health and safety,  and wellbeing of our 
employees,  ensuring  a safe working 
environment.
Giving back
We invest  in projects  that align with our core 
values and look for opportunities  to positively 
impact  one disadvantaged  person  for every 
Videndum employee
 in the communities in 
which we operate .Our ESG strategy
As well as the clear beneﬁts t o the environment, 
ESG matters have become increasingly 
important  to
 all the Group’s stakeholders.  Our 
customers are interested  in ener gy saving and 
recycling,  and ensuring product s and packaging 
are sustainable.  
Our employees  want reassurance that they  are 
working for
 a responsible busines s and our 
shareholders seek better transparency on 
climate-related  risks and any mitigat ion plans.  
Following this feedback,  we have tailored  our 
ESG strategy to address our key areas of impact  
and those
 of our industry,  as well as meeting the 
priorities  of our stakeholders.
Our strategy includes  clear object ives and 
targets across
 all areas,  prioritising actions  that 
will d
eliver  the greatest  impact . It is also 
designed  t
o positively  contribute to t he success 
of the Comp
any, to reduce the impact  of the 
business  on the environment , to continue to 
prioritise the health and s afety of our employees 
and to imp
rove the diversity and inclusivity of 
our workplaces.
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
13Our 
seven 
key pillars 
Continue to prioritise health 
and safety
No major lost
 time accid
entsReduce carbon 
emissions
Develop net zero strategyReduce packaging and 
waste
Reduce in-use plastics,  
more 
sustainable packaging and 
reducing waste to land
ﬁll
Embed sustainability into 
product life cycle
Product life cycle f
or ﬁve of the 
top-emitting products we sellFormalise the integrity of our 
supply chain
Improve our understanding of the 
impact of  
procured
 productsImprove diversity, equality 
and inclusion
Aim to imp
rove the 
Group's 
overall gender diversityPosit ively impact  the 
communit
ies in which we 
operat
e
Posit ively impact  one 
disad
vantaged  young person 
for every Videndum employee in 
the communit ies we op
erate
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
14Regular  market  up dat es are also provided  on 
p
erformance,  includ ing at the full year and half 
year, includ ing video presentations.
Along with the Annual Report  and TCFD Report,  
this report  provides the informat ion required  f or 
sharehold ers to assess the G roup’s overall 
performance against  its  strategy.  The Board 
agrees  that Videndum's reporting,  taken as a 
whole is fair,  balanced  and und erstandab le and 
giv
es all stakehold ers the inform ation necessar y 
to 
assess the G r oup’s business model,  strategy 
and performance.  Further details of how w e 
engaged  with our stakeholders throughout  the 
year and how the Board  consid ers Section 
172(1)  matters can be found  in the Annual 
Report  on page 6. Stakeholder engagement 
The
 Board  is responsible f or providing strong 
leaders hip and eﬀective decision-making t o ensure 
the continued  success of the Group and the 
implementation of our strategy.  We strive t o follow  
best corporate governance p r actices  and evolve 
t
hese practices and procedures t o deliver long-t erm 
sustainable shareholder value.
Customers
O
ur success  is d ependent  on our ability to 
understand  and respond  to our cust omers’  needs.  
We normally have  the opportunity to meet  our 
customers  at trade shows such as I BC,  NAB,  
NAMM and BSC – held in cities across  the world.  
During the pandemic,  management  used  video 
conferencing to maintain contact  with all key 
customers,  and several t r ading updates were also 
issued during the year. 
Suppliers
W
e have a large number of suppliers  globally,  as our 
op
erations  ar e relatively  low -volume,  small-batch 
processes.  We source materials from suppliers 
close t o our manuf acturing facilities  w here possible, 
and each Division has key relat ionships with its 
speciﬁc suppliers  for key components,  b oth from 
the UK and overseas.Employe es
We engage with our employees t hrough various 
channels,  including annual employee surveys.  
We also have G roup  and Divisional intranets for 
Group-wide announcements,  a whistle b lowing 
service and regular employee up dates from the 
Group  Chief  Executive and Divisional 
management
. Caroline Thomson is the Non-
Executive Director  responsible f or employee 
engagement.
Com munities and environ ments
We have a number of manuf acturing and oﬃ ce 
facilities  around  t he world  and aim  to limit any 
negative impact  on  the environment  and p rotect 
the natural resources w e rely on, creating long-
term sustainability  f or the business.  W e engage 
in our local communities  in various ways in each 
country  we operate in  and look to continually 
enhance our existing E SG  activities. 
Shareholders
Videndum maintains close,  op en and regular 
contact  with our shareholders.  S hareholders 
p
lay an important  role  in helping to shape our 
strategy and monit oring governance. 
The
 Group Chief  Executive and G r oup Finance 
Director have regular meetings with existing and 
potential shareholders.  O ur stakeholders  rely on 
communications such as our Annual Report, 
Group website,  TCFD  Report  and E SG  Report, 
which cover our b usiness , ongoing 
performance,  governance  and our ESG 
programme. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
15ESG governance
At the Group  level,  w e create value by setting 
and monitoring strategic plans,  budgets and 
forecasts,  managing treasury and tax, 
sustainability,  healt h and safety,  and assessing 
risk, including climate change.  The  team ensures 
t
hat a robust  governance f ramework,  policies 
and procedures  are in place to ensure a strong 
culture and et hical behaviour,  as w ell as 
managing acquisitions and d isposals,  corporate 
reporting and inv estor r elations.
We strive t o work in accordance with best 
corporate gov ernance practices and evolve 
t
hese practices and procedures to deliver long-
term sustainable shareholder value.  E SG 
governance has b een integrated  into our existing 
processes,  and this governance f ramework  
underpins a  sustainable and resp onsible 
business  for our stakeholders.  More detail can 
be found  in our Corp orate Governance Report.
The Videndum Board  provides oversight  and has 
overall responsibility  f or t he Group's E SG  
performance.  The  Board  has d elegated  certain 
it
ems of business  to its p rincipal Committees,  
which are d etailed  on the right. This ensures the 
Board  has suﬃcient  time to deal with strategic 
matters  while retaining overs ight on salient  points 
by virtue of it s Committees.  The  Board’s p rincipal 
Committees are t he Audit,  Remuneration and 
Nominations  Comm ittees.  We have an ESG 
Committee t o support  t he Board,  and each 
Division has it s ow n ESG steering group.  The 
delegation of responsibilities  is out lined  on page 
16.The Videndum  Board
Executive Responsibility
Group Chief Executive Stephen Bird
The appropriate Board Committees handle oversight for certain sustainability topics
Nominat ions Committ ee 
Chaired by  Ian McHoul
Membership:
Chairman,  Group  Chief 
Executive and  the independent 
Non-Executiv e DirectorsRemunerat ion Committ ee 
Chaired b y Caroline Thomson
Membership:
The independent  Non-
Executive Direct
ors
Review s policy on Executive 
Direct or and senior management 
remunerat ion to ensure 
alignment
 with strategy and 
performance, includ ing ESG 
targetsAudit  Committee
Chaired  by Christop her Humphrey
Membership:
The independent  Non-
Executive Dir
ectors
Oversees risk management 
and cont rol systems,  including 
climate-related  risks and 
opportunities
ESG Committee
Chaired  by the Group Chief  ExecutiveEnsures there is the required 
expert ise on the Board,  including 
the b
ackground  and skills to 
grow sustainably
Membership:
Group Chief Executive, Group Company Secretary and HR Director, Group Comm unications Director,  
Group Risk Assurance Manager and Divisional representatives
Supports the Board's ESG standards and ambitions
Divisional ESG responsibility
Management and execution of ESG initiatives is the responsibility of each Division and the respective 
Divisional CEOs 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
16Executive responsibility 
In response to the growing importance and 
increasing
 stakeholder  int erest  in ESG,  the Board 
has d elegated  the coordination of Videndum's 
ESG performance to Group  Chief  Executive 
Stephen Bird. Together with the Operations 
Executive and senior management,  he focuses 
his eﬀorts on ESG,  environmental policy  and  
climate-related  impacts.  A p ercentage of the 
Group  Chief  Executive’s  remuneration has  been 
tied to the Group's ESG performance;  more 
details can be found  in the Directors' 
Remuneration Report  in the Annual Report  on 
page 106.
The Board of Directors
The
 Board  is responsible f or t he Group’s ESG 
strategy and t he policies  and values which 
underpin this. It brings in external perspectives, 
exp
erience and knowledge in the areas of  
ﬁnance,  technology,  strategy,  p eople 
management  and global commerce t o support 
it
s eﬀorts . The Board  oversees t he development 
of the Group’s ESG programme,  ensuring 
increased  disclosure and clarity. 
During 2021,  the Board  received  regular  up dates 
on the development  of the Group’s revised  E SG 
programme and initiatives,  and t he Company  has 
exp
anded  its E SG  reporting to include our ﬁrst  
standalone TCFD and ESG Reports.Director Responsibility
- Responsib le for the eﬀective operat ion of the Board  and ens uring it is w ell-
balanced  to deliver the Group’s strategic objectives
- Ensures that the Board  const ructively plays a part in the d evelopment  of 
strat
egy
- Ensures eﬀectiv e engagement  betw een the Board  and all stakeholders
- Provid es clear and visible leadership  across the Group
- Execut es the G
roup’s strategy and commercial objectives and 
implement s decisions of the Board  and its Committ ees
- Ensures that the corporat e cultur e is set from the top
- Manages the Group  risk proﬁle
- Leads Invest or Relat ions activit ies – engaging with shareholders
- Leads
 the Group’s ESG programme
- Provid es ﬁnancial and risk control leadership  to the G roup  and guides the 
G
roup’s business and ﬁnancial strategy
- Engages  with key stakehold ers alongsid e the G roup Chief  Execut ive
- Acts as an independent  point  of cont act in the Group’s whistleblowing 
procedures
- A
vailable to shareholders if they have concerns
- As Chairman of the A
udit Committee,  leads the work of the Committ ee in 
connect ion w
ith the integrit
y of ﬁnancial report ing and risk management
- Monitors  the eﬀectiveness  of employee engagement  p rogrammes and 
surveys
- Provides
 regular  updates to the Board  on employee engagement 
matters 
and any issues
- As Chair of the Remunerat ion Committee,  leads the wor k of the 
Committ ee in connect ion with Directors’  remuneration
- Act with the highest  levels of integrit y and governance and help to ensure 
this culture is promoted  within the Group
- O
versee and set levels of remuner ation for key senior managem ent
- Oversee development  of succes sion planning for key management  and 
execut ive roles
- Review  int
egrity of ﬁnancial reporting
- Ensure t
hat ﬁnancial and risk appetit e and mitigat ing cont rols are appropriate 
and robustIan McHoul (62) - Chairman
App
ointed  in 2019
Committ ee Membership:  Nominations  (Chairman)
Stephen Bird (61) - Group  Chief  Executive  
Ap
pointed  in 2009 
Committ ee Membership:  Nominations
Martin Green ( 53)  - Group Finance Director  
App
ointed  in 2017
Christop her Hump hrey (64) - Senior Ind ependent  Direct or 
and Chairman of the Audit  Commit tee
Appointed  in 2013
Committ ee Membership:  Audit  ( Chairman),  Nominations, 
Remuneration
Caroline Thomson (67) - Designat ed Non-Execut ive Direct or 
for 
Employee Engagement  and Chair man of the Remunerat ion 
Committ
ee
Appointed  in 2015
Committ ee Membership:  Audit,  Nominat ions, Remuneration 
(Chairman)
Richard  Tyson (51) - Ind ependent  Non-Execut ive Director 
App
ointed  in 2018
Committ ee Membership:  Audit,  Nominat ions, Remuneration
Duncan Penny (59) - Independent  Non-E xecutive Director 
Ap
pointed  in 2018
Committ ee Membership:  Audit,  Nominat ions, Remuneration2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
17
Board diversity
The
 Board  considers  t he issue of diversity f or 
every ap pointment.  The  objective is to ensure 
that the Board  appoints  t he best person for 
every role and to optimise the collective Board 
strength.  The female representation on the 
Board  during 2021 was 14%.  In December 
2021,  we announced  that with eﬀect  from 1 May 
2022,  Erika Schraner  w ill join the Board  as an 
ind
ependent  Non-Executive Director  w ho will 
also be a member of t he Audit,  Remuneration 
and Nominations Committee.  We also 
announced  that Duncan Penny w ill not be 
seeking reappointment  at the 2022 AGM and he 
will therefore ceas e to be a Director  of t he 
Company at t he close of the AGM on Tuesday,  
17 May 2022.  By t he 2022 AGM,  the female 
representation on  the Board  will therefore be 
29%.
The Board  will keep  under regular review  the 
issue of d ivers ity includ ing at Board  level,  senior 
management  level and throughout  the entire 
workforce,  taking into account,  among other 
t
hings,  Lord Davies’  review,  Women on Boards,  
the Hampton-Alexander  r eview,  FTSE  Women 
Leaders and the Parker and McGregor-Smith 
reviews on ethnic diversity.  We will report  upon 
this issue annually  in our Annual Report,  E SG  
Report  and TCFD Report.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
18ESG Committee 2021 pr ogress : 
Reduced carbon 
emissions- Expanded scope of emissions reporting to calculate our Scope 3 carbon emissions
- Enhanced Scope 1 and 2 rep
orting measures to ensure they are fully embedded and robust
Complied with TCFD 
reporting requirements
Embedded sustainability 
into product life cycle
Increased the use of 
renewable sources for 
energy
Formalised the integrity of 
our supply chain
Improved diversity and 
inclusion
Enhanced charitable and 
community projects- Published  TCFD Report  in  accordance w ith regulation as a UK listed  comp any
- Introd
uced  and completed  climate change risk analysis  and disclosure.  Developed  a risk
mitigation plan for climate change
- Worked  towards the elimina tion of single-use plastic,  and recyclability of packaging and other 
product  components
- Started  the process f or developing a policy f or e-waste management  and end-of-p roduct-life 
management  to be developed  following stakeholder  feedback
- Installed  solar panels at key sites (Bury St E dm unds,  UK and Cartago,  Costa Rica)
- Continued  t
o develop  electricity contracts wit h providers of certiﬁably  renewable electricity
- Implemented  other energy saving measures such as investment  in more energy eﬃcient
machinery;  continuing
 to convert  owned  vehicle ﬂeet to electric
- We rolled out a sourcing manual combining the diﬀerent  element s of Videndum's approach.  This
incorporates:
•Methodology  and scope for site visits and inspections
•Corporate citizenship  and screening requirements
•Legal and environmental standards.  This will f orm the basis of environmental supply policies
develop
ed in subsequent  years
- Launched  a Diversity & Inclusion strategy
- Set targets and an action  plan to increase  gender  diversity throughout  t he Company
- Improved  reporting and expanded  policies around  diversity across t he Group  and also associated 
issues (employee turnover,  disabled  employees)
- Gathered  robust  information and data on charitable and community projects  with associated 
ﬁnancial values
- Continued  to build on our commitment  to  positively impact  one d isadvantaged  person for every 
Videndum employee in the communit ies in which w e operateESG Committee
The Board  has
 established  a cross-Divis ional 
Environment
al, Social  and Governance (“ESG”)  
Committee to support  their eﬀort s,  comprising of 
the
 Group Chief  Executive,  Group  Company 
Secretary and HR Director,  Group  
Comm
unications  Director,  G roup  Risk Assurance 
Manager  and Divisional representatives.
The E
SG Committee is chaired  by the Group  Chief  
Executive.  It is mandated  t o meet  the Board's 
growing
 ESG standards  and ambitions,  lead 
init
iatives  across t he Group  and ensure compliance 
with emerging regulations.  The Committee 
engages with our stakeholders,  including our 
employees
, shareholders , ratings agencies,  
custom
ers and supply chain,  to d evelop,  deliver 
and evolve
 the G roup’s ESG p rogramme.
In order to achieve a process of continuous 
improvement,  the E SG Committee meets on a 
bi-monthly  basis to t rack progress against  all ESG 
matters Divisionally  and at Group  level.  The 
Comm
ittee updates t he Board on Videndum's 
ES
G performance twice a year.
In 2021,  the Board,  ESG Committee and broader 
management  identiﬁed  and addressed  material 
ESG issues aﬀecting b usiness operations and 
Videndum's stakeholders.  Clear objectives and  
targets were set across all critical areas following 
stakeholder  feedback. 
A
s a top priority,  we have introduced  and 
enhanced  data collection processes to measure,  
report  and reduce our  carbon footprint  accurat ely. 
Areas of focus f or the G roup  also included 
packaging
 and wast e, diversity,  and health and 
safety.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
19Creative Solutions
Creative S olutions’  ESG team is working  to 
manage  the communication  of the ESG 
strategy throughout  the Division and help the 
Company  drive new initiatives.  The team  is led 
by Marco Vidali,  Divisional CEO.
Management 
Responsibility  for t he management  and 
execution of ESG initiatives is separated  
Divisionally and held by  the respective Divisional 
CE
Os. Each Division has set individual work 
streams and speciﬁc steering teams t o roll out 
ESG initiatives and help meet  our t argets.
Media Solutions
ESG progress is embedded  throughout  the 
Division and led by  the Sustainability Project 
Leader  who reports to t he Divisional CEO,  Marco 
P
ezzana,  working to enhance  the Division’s 
current  E SG  framework.
While
 projects  continue w ithin Media Solutions,  
the Sustainability Project Leader is preparing a 
more structured  strategy and roadmap  w hich 
will ultimately be supported  by reinf orced  
governance with regularly structured  meetings,  
goals  and targets.
Production Solutions
Production Solutions has set up a Divisional 
ES
G steering committee under the leadership  of 
Nicola Dal Toso,  Divisional CEO.  S ite Green 
Teams have been est ablished  at each site to 
help drive initiatives.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
20- Being a strong innovator and investing in
research and development
- Identiﬁcation of acquisition opp or
tunities
- Optimising supply chain eﬃciency and
operational 
excellence
- Robust HR process es for resourcing and
talent developmentWe are develop ing strategies to monit or and 
mitigate the potent ial physical impact  of climate  
change on our operations  and people, and our 
supply chain,  as well as the risks and 
opportunities , and potentially addit ional costs 
associated  with the transit ion to a low-carbon 
economy.  We believe that we are relativ ely well 
placed  to manage this risk due to our 
environment al initiatives,  diversiﬁed  geographical  
footprint  and supply chain,  and the speciﬁc  
attribut es of the content  creat ion industry.
Our Group-wid e ESG Committ ee oversees the 
Group’s response to climat e change and has 
expanded  the Group’s  ESG programme to 
includ e reducing carbon emissions as a key 
pillar.  Several initiat ives to reduce energy 
consumpt ion are underw ay or have been  
completed.  Further details are included  in our 
TCFD Report.Risk management
To achieve its strategic objectives,  Videndum  
recognises
 that it will take on certain business  
risks.  The Group has a well-established  
framew
ork f or reviewing and assessing risks on 
a regular basis and has put in  place appropriate 
processes and procedures to mitigate against  
them.  
The Board  has
 delegated  responsibility  to t he 
Audit  Committee for oversight  of the G roup’s 
system of internal cont rols to safeguard  
shareholders’  investments and the  Company’s 
assets.  
As
 part of its responsibility,  the Audit  Committee 
formally reviews the eﬀect iveness of the Group’s 
internal controls  twice a  year. The risk 
management  framework includes  formal risk 
reviews and risk regist ers  maintained  at Group,  
Divisional and business  unit level.
To support  our strategic priorities,  we have 
several business objectives  which d rive the way 
in w
hich we proactively manage risks.
These include:Full disclosure of the Principal Risks for the 
Group are set out in the 2021  Annual  Report  on 
page 36.
Climate- relate d risks
In 2021,  we added  Climate  Change as a 
principal  risk. We understand  the serious  nature 
of the challenges  relating to climate change  and 
the implications  this may have on our operations 
and business  model.
Following the TCFD recommendations,  we 
identiﬁed  several  risks and opportunities  posed  
by climate change  that can generate  change  in 
our operations.
We considered  the physical  risks to people and 
assets b ased  on a projected  increase  in the 
frequency  of natural disasters caused  b y climate  
change,  and the impact  of gradual changes  
such as increasing temperature.
Along with risks associated  with the transition  to 
a low-carbon  model,  such as the need  for 
expensive investment  in new machinery and 
other  costs,  e.g. insurance,  we also expect  
additional costs  to arise t o meet  regulatory and 
reporting  requirements and cost s  to oﬀset  
emissions.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
21Trust and transparency
Code of Conduct
Our Code of Cond uct (“Code”)  forms the 
backbone of our culture.  I t  provides clear 
guidance to our employees  on how t hey are 
exp
ected  to behave towards colleagues,  
suppliers,  customers,  shareholders and our 
broader responsibility  to t he communities in 
which we operate.
Our Code has  been communicat ed to all 
employees,  including new employees joining the 
Group, and is available on  the Company  website 
t
ranslated  into local  languages.  We require all 
senior management  to undertake an online 
training module covering the Code of Conduct,  
including share dealing,  conﬂicts of interest,  legal 
dut
ies and other  reputational issues.  W e expect  
our business partners  to act in  a manner that 
aligns with our approach,  values and behaviours,  
as set out in our Code of Cond uct
Breach of the Code of Conduct,  upon 
investigation,  may lead to d isciplinary action 
being taken against  an individual and, in the 
worst  case,  dismissal.  I n 2021,  six employees 
were dismissed  f rom the business  due to a 
breach of the Code of Conduct.  These breaches 
consist
ed of HR issues and inapp ropriate 
behaviours in the workplace.We expect  our customers,  suppliers,  distributors 
and agents,  and all other stakeholders we 
interact  with to either  abide  by our policies  or to 
operate to similar standards. 
Charitable  donat ions
As part of our community  activities,  we donate  
time and money to a variety of local and 
international  charities.  Our charitable donations 
and sponsorships  should  be seen as open and 
voluntary  contributions  to the public  good,  
without  any expectation  of a commercial or 
p
ersonal  return.  We apply the same  standards  of 
professionalism  in our charitable  donations as 
we do with our business  partnerships.  We only 
provide  donations to organisations that serve a 
legitimate  public  purpose and are  subject  to high 
standards  of transparency  and accountability.  
All donations are transparent  and properly  
documented,  with a summary  of the rationale for 
the donation,  details of the parties  involved,  the 
amount  and/or  a description  of the donation 
made.
All donations in 2021  were cleared  with 
Divisional  CEOs or Group  Company  Secretary 
and w
ere not subject  to any conﬂict  of interest.Anti-bribery  and corruption
We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery 
and corruption,  and a clear commitment  to doing  
business  the right way. Our Anti-Bribery  and 
Corruption  Policy  covers gifts and hospitality,  
prohibition on facilitation payments  and 
kickbacks,  and how employees raise issues  of 
concern.  This zero-tolerance approach is also set 
out in our Code of Conduct  to ensure  our 
employees,  contractors  and subcontractors  
working  in all of our businesses are clear on 
acceptable ways of doing business.
We regularly  train our employees  on anti-bribery  
and corruption  measures using  web-based  
training  modules  and face-to-face training.  To 
mitigate  the risk around  bribery  and corruption,  
we actively  screen  all major third parties  we do 
business  with using third-party  software.  Our 
agents  and distributors  are party to agreements  
that prohibit  bribery  and set our expectations on 
behaviour  and values.
The Board  and the Audit  Committee are regularly 
updated  on the Group's  anti-bribery  and 
corruption measures,  including  training  initiatives 
and screening  status of third parties.  Our Group  
Company Secretary  and HR Director Jon Bolton  
is responsible  for ensuring compliance  with anti-
bribery and corruption policies.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
22Breach of the IT policy may lead to disciplinary  
action being taken. Notably, the IT policy covers  
the conﬁdentiality of data, GDPR requirements, 
inappropriate content, security of data, including  
cyb
er security and reporting processes. The  
Group Finance Director and Group Risk 
Assurance Manager oversee the IT functions  
from a governance standpoint. With the use of 
specialist providers, they conduct regular 
vulnerability assessment and pen tests, and 
review the application of IT controls across the  
Group. This includes key control activities such  
as patching, multi-factor authentication and user  
access controls. Cyber security is a major risk  
on which regular updates are provided to the  
Board and Audit Committee.
The Group has moved to standard certiﬁcation  
and accreditation using the government-backed 
Cyber Essentials framework, and will be working  
towards the IASME certiﬁcation.
We work with a leading cyber security provider  
to deliver a programme of awareness training 
and communication to all employees, which is a 
vital component of our IT security framework. 
This includes training relating to GDPR.All reports  are notiﬁed  to the Group  Chief  
Executive,  the Group  Company Secretary and 
HR Director and the Audit  Committee Chairman 
and are investigated  independently  by senior 
management  who are not connect ed to the 
report.  The outcome  of any investigation is 
reported  to the Chairman  of the Audit  
Committee,  and remedial action  is taken  where 
necessary.  The Board  is notiﬁed  of all 
whistleblowing r eports and the outcome of all 
investigations
This service is communicated  to all employees  
with posters prominently visible at all sites and a 
letter explaining the service to ensure  it is 
understood.  The documents  are also available 
on the Group intranet,  with all communications  
translated  into local languages.  In 2021,  there  
were two whistleblowing reports that were HR-
related  in the US and Costa Rica.  Each matter  
was thoroughly investigated,  and corrective 
actions  were t aken where necessary.
Information  systems and technology
Given t he ever-increasing importance of 
I
nformation Technology to the Company's  
operations  and performance,  we have an IT 
policy  available on our website.  Responsibility  for 
IT ultimately rests with the Group  Finance  
Director.  The IT policy  sets out standards to be 
followed  across the Group for its employees,  
contractors  and third parties to use the Group's  
IT systems.  The policy  has been  implemented  to 
ensure that the Company's  IT ﬁts proper 
business  purpose  and is a safe environment  for 
all our users.Trust and transparency/continued
Labour and human rights
We fully support  the principles set out in the UN 
Universal Declaration of Hum an Rights.  Our p olicies 
and procedures reﬂect  the principles contained  
within the Declaration.  We support  the Modern 
Slavery  Act 2015  and have adopted  a slavery and 
human traﬃcking statement,  setting out our 
processes to ensure that t his issue is not in our 
operat
ions or supply chain.  This statement  is 
available
 here.  
Our Code of Cond uct sets out an  express 
prohibition on discrimination of any kind . 
Employees  are hir ed  in accordance with local 
employment  legislation,  and we are committed  to 
their fair t reatment  and respect.  We encourage 
emp
loyees  to report  suspected  incidences of 
wrong-doing in our business,  including  slavery and 
human t
raﬃcking matters.  Any such reports are 
thoroughly and independently investigated.
There were no incid ents of discrimination,  modern 
slavery,  or human traﬃcking reported  across t he 
Group in 2021.
Whistleblowing service
We operate an ind ependent  whistleblowing service 
in conjunction with NAVEX.  This enables any  
employee or third-party to conﬁdentially report  any 
issues  around  alleged  wrongd oing or other Code 
cont
raventions.  The  Board  is expressly clear that all 
reports made in good  faith will not result  in an 
employee or third-party being subject  to 
recriminations or disciplinary  action.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
23Trust and transparency/continued
Environmental and socioeconomic 
complianc e
In the 2021 report ing year, no incidents of  
environment al or socioeconomic non-compliance 
occurr ed. None of the Group' s businesses were   
subject  to ﬁnes relating to environment al or social 
issues.  Our eﬀort s and ESG awareness continue      
to evolve to comply with regulat ions and make       
our business  better and more sustainable.  We 
address the risk of non-com pliance by having   
resources dedicated  to legal and regulat ory    
comp liance supported  by external advice where 
necessary.
We enhance our controls,  processes and         
employee knowled ge to maint ain good  governance 
and com
ply with laws and regulat ions. Regular          
senior management  training and reassessments         
of our governance proced ures take place.  We have       
set processes to monitor  and identif y potential           
risks relating to non-com pliance with laws and 
regulations.  A detailed  overview  of this process       
can be found  in our Annual Rep
ort.
In ad
dition,  the Product ion Solut ions Division has 
developed  an extensive Comp liance 
Tool that  
covers all their operat ional areas and local 
legislat ion and laws
 that they must  adhere to. Areas 
from haz
ardous materials to water are covered . The 
comp liance tool is regularly updated,  and we look 
to expand  it across
 the Divisions. As a publicly  listed company,  we must comply 
with emer ging climate change regulations.  For 
the ﬁrst time this year, we have publis hed a Task 
Force for Climate-Related  Financial Disclosures 
(“TCFD” ) Report.
Publis hing a TCFD Report  helps us understand  
the Group's resilience to climate-related  risks 
alongside the opportunities  posed by climate 
change.  At Videndum,  we have invested  our 
time and eﬀorts into complying with the new 
TCFD disclosur e and look forward  to building 
upon our environmental strategy  from this 
process.  
Political donations
Further to shareholder  approval at the 2021 
AGM empowering the Director s to make political 
donations,  it is conﬁrmed  that no such donations 
were made in the year ended  31 December 
2021.  The Company 's policy  is not to make 
political donations.  The 2025 AGM will be asked 
to renew  this existing author ity which expir es in 
May 2025.
Financi al assista nce received from 
government
The Group  receiv ed government  assistance due 
to COVID-19 in contr ibutions towar ds employee 
costs.  The Group fully repaid  all UK governm ent 
assistance receiv ed in the UK in early 2021.  
More information can be found  in our Annual 
Report.  Economic & Innovation2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
25Our business model
O
ur experienced  t eams,  p remium b rands, 
eﬃcient  supply chain  and global distribution 
networks f ocus on delivering long-t erm value to 
our shareholders,  outstanding products and 
service t o our customers,  and rew arding career s 
f
or our p eople.  
We have set a clear business  strategy and 
considered  how k ey strategic decisions will 
impact  our stakeholders  and t he environment.  
Our structure is simple and lean with only two 
layers, Group  and Divisions . This enables  
f
ocused  decision-making and allow s us to react  
quickly  t o customer,  market  and t echnological 
changes.  Our t hree Divisions  f ocus on the 
diﬀerent  needs of t heir customer segments  and 
are d ecentralised  and entrepreneurial w ith a 
global mindset.  Videndum's strategy is built on 
a collaborative ap proach between the Divisions, 
t
o share best practice and capabilities  f or the 
development  of innovative p roducts and to 
beneﬁt  sustainable growth.  More  information 
can be found  in our Annual Report.
Our strategy
Organic growth
Market growth is being driven 
by technology advancements 
and b y 
four diﬀerent st
ructural 
growth drivers , all growing 
double-digit; 75% of t
he 
Group’s business is exposed 
to these. Margin improvement
We are focused on improving 
our operating proﬁt margins 
towards our mid-teen goal as 
volumes grow and we deliver 
strong operating leverage. M&A activity
We have a clear M&A 
strategy which is focused  on 
investment  in video 
transmission/st reaming in 
Creat ive Solutions  and in 
content  creat ion and audio 
cap
ture in Media Solutions ECONOMI C & INNOVATION2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMI C & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
26Year in review
Revenue
£394.3m 
Net debt
£145.2mAdjusted operating proﬁt
£46.2m 
Adjusted op
erating margin
11.7%Statutory operating proﬁt
£33.5m
Statutory op
erating margin
8.5%
Market position
We are at the heart  of the grow ing content 
creat ion market.  Technology innovation, 
social media and remot e working have 
driven the “democrat
isation”  of content 
creat ion and consump
tion, and sustained 
demand  for new and replacement  products. 
Our market-lead ing brands,  operational 
excellence and continuous t
echnological 
innovat ion make us uniquely positioned  to 
take advant age of t
his grow ing market,  and 
deliver
 long-term  value to our shareholders. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMI C & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
27Market opportunities
Unique grow
th opportunities are unf olding within 
each of our three Divisions.  We estimat e t hat 
around  75% of the G roup’ s business is being 
exp
osed  to the four diﬀerent  s tructural market 
growt h drivers b elow,  which are all experiencing 
double-digit  growth.  This is driving sustained 
demand  for new and replacement  products. 
The internet
Growth in retail e-commerce is d r iving 
increased  demand  f or digital visual 
content  as
 new products need  to b e 
photographed  and ﬁlmed  frequently to be 
published  online.  More and more brands 
are using digital platforms to reach 
audiences,  and creatives must  deliver 
cont
ent to more platforms and devices 
than ever before to b uild  brand 
awareness . 
This drives demand  f or Videndum's  
professional photography  and 
videography equipment,  including  
supports,  backgrounds,  lighting and 
b
ags, mainly beneﬁting our  Media  
Solut
ions Division.Subscription T V
Increasing spend  on original content 
creation for subscription TV channels  like 
Netﬂix,  A
mazon Prime Video,  Disney+ 
and Apple TV+, while incumbents  like 
Hulu,  HBO  and trad
itional broadcasters 
are all maintaining existing levels  of 
spending on original content,  is driving 
d
emand  for our  equipment. 
Videndum oﬀers a wide range of market-
leading products across all three 
Divisions  to meet the high production 
value needs of both large  media 
companies  and smaller  independent 
p
roducers.  These include our  video 
transmission and monit oring systems and  
camera accessories in Creat ive Solutions, 
light
ing equipment,  mobile power and 
supports in Production Solutions,  and 
supports and aud io capture in Media 
Solutions.TikTok an d YouTube
There has been signiﬁcant  growth in vloggers 
and inﬂuencers  creating and s haring video 
and audio content  on social media platforms 
like TikTok  and YouTube.  W e estimate that 
t
here are more than 40 million vloggers  (with a 
f
ollowing of over 1,000 p eople,  who share 
their
 videos or p odcasts,  and then monet ise 
that content.  Improving the quality  of their 
content  is
 enormously  important  to t heir 
success – and that’s what Videndum 
prod
ucts help them do. 
JOBY is our main brand serving the needs of 
vloggers  and inﬂuencers.  They  use our JOBY  
supports,  lights,  aud io capture and our 
backgrounds and graphics  to create high-
quality  content.  The  JOBY customers of 
today potentially t ransition to Videndum's 
other  premium b rands,  as they become t he 
ﬁlmmakers,  broadcasters and p rofessional 
photographers  of the future.  In addition, 
growth in documentaries and wildlife 
photography,  also typically  shared  on social 
media, beneﬁt  our supports,  windjammers 
and bags in Media S olutions.Live streamin g
Live streaming of video is grow ing strongly 
across mult ip le verticals,  such as 
enterprise,  medical and gaming to 
maint ain com
munications  and facilitate 
remot e working.  For  example, 
government
s, schools,  houses of worship 
and b
usiness es rely on high-qualit y, 
secure,  zero or low delay  video 
transmission to com municat e with their 
communities,  cust omers  and emp loyees. 
Professional content  creat ors working 
from home require remot e streaming with 
high image quality,  low delay and robust 
securit y post-production.  This is d riving 
demand  for our Terad ek IP-based  live 
streaming softw are and hard ware in 
Creat ive Solutions. 
There 
is also a high d emand  for remote 
wireles
s video within hospit al operating 
rooms.  Our Creat ive Solut ions Division has 
d
eveloped  wireless video transmission 
and monitor ing solutions using Amimon’s 
propriet ary zero d elay technology  for the 
leading m
edical equipment  providers,  and  
is also supplying the industr ial market.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMI C & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
28Market opportunities/continued
International markets
We sell into over 100 countries and have an imp act 
in markets and communities  worldwide.  O ur 
products help  bring our customers’  vision to light and 
facilitate human connection. 
We employ around  2,000 peop le across 11 diﬀerent  
countries.  Across our sites, we engage with the local 
communities  and often run partnerships w it h local 
colleges  and universit ies to provide job opportunities 
for recent  graduates.
We have embarked  on a major renewab le energy 
programm e in the UK and Costa Rica and look t o 
expand  this further.  Thes e projects b eneﬁt  the 
regional decarbonisat ion strategies.  We strive to 
reduce the environment al footprint  of our  market-
leading products as outlined  on page 45. O ur 
progress cont inues  to raise the standards expected 
of products in the content  creat ion market. organic activities  and enab le us to beneﬁt  from 
those changes. 
Our unique heritage,  experienced  peop le and 
the credibility  of our established,  premium 
brands allow  us to ﬁnd attractive,  high-quality  
business es in our core or adjacent  markets,  
technologies  and geographies  to achieve our 
growt h objectives.  We completed  three 
acquisitions  in 2021.
Company Acquired Amount Value
Quas ar 
Science5 April 2021 US$6.1 
million  
Lightstream 12 April 2021 US$35.9 
million
Savage 22 November 
2021US$57.3 
millionInvesting in new technol ogy and 
markets
For a business like Videndum, intelligent  and 
sustained  investment  in new markets, 
t
echnologies,  products and people  enables  us 
to retain our market-leading p ositions  and 
create shareholder  value in the future.  The 
content creation  market  is rapidly changing,  and 
we continue  to identify  and make appropriate, 
value-adding acquisitions to supplement  our  
● Expand s our higher-technology  capabilities
● Complem
ents our Litepanels brand
● Enhances  our position as a leading p layer in the LED market
● Provid es growt h op
portunities  to sell Quasar product s through Videndum's
global network.
● Brings leading cloud-based  video product ion and editing
Software-as-a-S ervice technology and highly  skilled  softw are engineers
● Enab les cross-selling opp
ortunitie s to our existing custome r base to increase 
recurring revenue
● Adds complement ary software to our live streaming capabilities
● Enab les Videndum to enter the gam
ing market
● Expand s Media Solutions p resence in background s for the professional 
studio photograp hic market
● Drives commercial synergies
● Background s are the largest  consumab les prod uct in the professional studio 
phot
ograp hic market,  and we will exp
and their distrib ution internationally, 
especially into APAC,  t
hrough our digital expertise2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMI C & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
29Initially, we targeted lean manufacturing and  
cost reduction (from 2015 to 2019), prioritising 
the creation of a more integrated and eﬃcient 
production line. From 2019 to 2024, our second 
phase focuses on service and Lean Industry 4.0  
as 
we target our supply chain and work towards 
a sustainable and resilient industry. The active 
role of our people has accelerated the 
improvement process. The strategy has  
generated value through continuously improving 
performance and has enabled us to localise our 
supply chain.While  technology adds value to our way of 
operating,  the automation  we introduce at  
Videndum does not compete with our 
colleagues’  roles. Innovative,  human-centred 
ways of working will be crucial to developing 
technology in our manufacturing processes. 
Media Solutions’ Industry  4.0 
strategy
Since 2015,  in our Media S olutions  Feltre plant,  
we have adopted  Lean  Manufacturing and 
Industry Rob otics  Automation  4.0 strategies, 
implementing a two-phased  approach.
Videndum Media Solutions’  Industry 4.0 Strategy
How we create value
At Videndum, we constantly evaluate our  global 
b
usiness,  making strategic decisions  and 
allocat
ing resources  to ad vance our goal of  
delivering long-term  growth and margin 
improvement.  As demonstrated  through the 
publication of our ﬁrst ESG and TCFD  Reports 
this
 year, we are determined  to deliver our grow th 
in a sustainable and transparent  manner.
As with other business es, COVID-19 has 
reshaped  the environment  in w hich we operate 
internally  and externally.  We have  experienced  a 
strong recovery  from t he pandemic and, while we 
continue to prioritise the healt h and safety of our 
custom
ers and colleagues,  we  aim to capitalise 
on the growing value of the content  creation 
market. 
Automatio n and p eople
The world  is changing,  digit al capabilities and 
technological advancements are evolving quickly.  
Labelled  Industry  4.0, a  digital transformation of 
manufact
uring and related  industries is underway.  
There is a grow ing trend  for automation and d ata 
exchange in manufacturing technologies.  We 
recognise that this represents a new stage in our 
organisat
ion’s development  and p resents 
signiﬁcant  opportunities within our industrial value 
chain.  
We want to enable new ways of production and 
op
timise our manufacturing p rocess to save on 
resources  while cont inuing to develop  the skills of 
our specialist  colleagues.  We recognise that 
automation will und oubtedly  improve t he 
workplace experience – in safety,  repetitive tasks 
and improving resource eﬃciency.  2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMI C & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
30 partnerships in new markets  and technologies.  In 
2021,  product  sustainability was identiﬁed  as a 
key focus  area and best practice initiatives  and 
processes have been  shared  throughout  the 
Group. Our three  Divisions each hold unique 
expertise to serve our customers’  needs.  Our 
Media Solutions  Division  is the furthest  along  this 
journey.  
Media Solutions: product 
development
O
ur Media Solutions  Division has made 
sustainability a pivotal  part of future product  
development,  partnering with Bologna  Business  
School to extensively develop  products that use 
recycled  packaging and textiles,  with minimal 
environmental
 and social impact.  Media  
Solutions  has taken the approach of embedding 
E
SG into its brand  strategy.  Each brand is 
provided  with a clear and diﬀerentiating strategy 
towards sustainability,  based  upon the brand’s 
existing  strengths,  strategy and equity.  Media  
Solutions has introduced  a set of Sustainable  
Design Principles  to drive brand  sustainability 
strategies moving forward.
E
SG initiatives  around  brand strategy,  
manufacturing,  supply chain  and product  
sustainability will be rolled  out to the wider  
Group over time.
In 2021,  Media Solutions  concentrated  on their 
core brands of Lowepro,  Gitzo,  JOBY  and 
Manfrotto and considered  how each brand  tied 
into sustainability through utilising  their 
Sustainable Design P rinciples.Media Solutions  assessed  each element  of the 
brand  to highlight  strengt hs around 
sustainability and  the life cycle of products. 
Brand  strategies includ e sustainab le product  
development, eco-friendly  packaging,  and 
enhanced  service and  maintenance on sold 
products.
An examp le of wher e we look to leverage a 
brands’  existing strengt h is with our Gitzo brand. 
We look to reduce our impact  with Gitzo 
through t he “Build  To Last”  and Circular  Design 
principles,  focusing on the durabilit y and long-
lasting performance of the Gitzo product s to 
guide product  development.Media Solutions’  Sustainab le Design PrinciplesHow we create value/continued 
Market knowled ge and c ustom er insight
Designing innovative products  to make our 
customers’  lives easier is what drives us. O ur 
Divisions cont
inually  obtain feedback f rom a range 
of stakeholders and conduct  research into market  
trends,  competitors  and our products.
The
 range of niche markets we operate in  allows us 
t
o take expertise and learnings f rom one area and 
apply in another.  W e actively encourage best 
p
ractice sharing between our Divisions  and 
synergies across departments  t o develop  our 
knowledge.
Our long-standing and extens ive market  expertise 
enables  us to remain close to our cust omers,  
anticipat
ing and responding to dev elopments to 
ensure that our b rands remain at the forefront  of t he 
indust
ry, renowned  for their premium oﬀerings and 
innovative t
echnology.
Innovative prod uct deve lopment 
For
 a business  like Videndum, intelligent  and 
sustained  investment  in new p roducts,  technologies 
and people
 enables  us to retain our market-leading 
positions  and creat
e value  in the future.
Our exp
erienced,  specialist  engineers apply new 
technologies,  products and materials  to develop  
high-q
uality
, high-performance solutions.  We 
produce most of our products  in-house and wor k 
with selected,  market-leading partners for specialist  
solutions.  We supplement  in-house new product  
develop
ment  with caref ully selected  acquisitions or 
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMI C & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
31Creative Solutions projects planned for 2022  
aim to support
 our strategy in f our 
main 
directions:
- Exploit the momentum of our 4K
technology
- Expand our medical devices portfolio
- Support growth of SmallHD revenue
- Expand the success and the features of
a newly launched product such as
W
ave that combines Teradek and
SmallHD technology
The top projects in Creat ive Solut ions for 2022 
includ e the Bolt 4K XT, which opens up a wide 
array of previously unusable frequency channels, 
the ART, a super robus t, low latency,  internet 
protocol that will be unveiled at NAB,  and a 4K, 
zero delay , in-light  wireless medical camer a 
system.
The continued  investment  in 
Creat ive Solutions Division’s  R&D 
allows  us to continue d
eveloping 
excit
ing, high tech prod
ucts that 
delight  our customers.
Mariu s van der Watt
SVP Engineering - TeradekInvesting in research and development 
Providing innovative products for our customers 
is what d
rives our success.  We make a 
substantial investment  into R&D each year, to 
further support  our development  of innovation 
and ensure we remain competitive within  our 
markets.
The highest  p
roportion of the Group’s R&D 
investment  is allocated  to the  Creative Solutions 
Division,  as we aim to cont inue investing  more 
in higher technology solutions.
This increased  investment  over the past few 
years has allowed  us to  capitalise on the 
opportunity to develop  groundbreaking 
technology.  In 2021,  R&
D spend  increased  by 
5%, 12% and 33% from 2019 for Media  
Solut
ions, Production Solutions  and Creative 
Solutions
 respectively.
The increased  R&D spend  in Creative Solutions 
this year was driven by the acquisition of 
Lightstream as well as investments into our 
cloud  solutions to support  our strategic 
initiatives.
In 2022,  we
 plan to increase our investment  into 
R&D across the Group,  budgeting approximately 
8% of our turnover to  invest  into R&D,  a 
signiﬁcant  increase from 6.4% in 2021.
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMI C & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
32Our manufacturing facilities are modern,  
well-invested,  lean, and, where appropriate,  
highly  aut omated.  The majority  of our  operations 
are relatively low -volume,  small-batch processes.  
Our cont inuous  imp rovement  cult ure enables us 
to optimise our global operations  t o maximise 
quality,  service and eﬃciency  w hile reducing 
costs.  We focus on safety,  quality,  eﬃciency,  
cost and on-t ime delivery.  O ur sourcing and 
manufacturing excellence is one of Videndum's 
core competitive strengths.
Our supply chain  is eﬃcient,  and our p eople are 
highly trained  and multi-skilled.  W e procure 
materials f rom reputable suppliers and make our 
p
roducts eﬃcient  and environmentally  f riendly.  
We are working t o bring our sourcing and 
manufacturing f acilities closer  t ogether. 
Localising  our supply cha in
Localisation of our supply chain allows us to be 
more ﬂexible across  a product’s ent ire value 
chain while reducing our environmental imp act. 
Strategically,  we work t o establish a supplier 
base near our manuf acturing plants,  reducing 
transportation costs,  inventory levels,  d elivery 
times and emissions  in our supply chain.
Production Solutions  has a speciﬁc localisation 
programme.  The  decision of where to locate 
materials is based  on a risk and value matrix. The 
localis
ation team uses t he list, led b y  a senior 
buyer and accom panied  by a quality engineer,  a 
manufacturing engineer,  a design engineer  and a 
ﬁnance
 representative,  to source raw materials.  capture the manufacturing margin.  Media  
Solutions  can lever
age the Italy plant  structure 
and develop  lean manufact uring expert ise on 
inject ion mould ing and assemb
ly, which 
enhances  the eﬃciency of the process and 
reduces the cost of components .
We will continue to target  further operational 
improvement
s across the Division through 
localis ing our
 supply chain with JOBY  and 
Manf
rotto as a best-cas e example.Sourcing and manufacturing excell ence
The development  of t his p rocess  is reviewed  
monthly by the management  team at each 
manufacturing site. Approximately 65%  of the 
components  have  been localised  for the Costa 
Rica manufacturing site and 85% for the Bury St 
Edmunds site. 
Media Solutions: case study – 
Manfrotto & JOBY reshoring
The Media Solutions Division has worked  hard to 
localise its supply chain over t he last few years. 
In 2017,  Media Solutions  started  reshoring 
Manf
rotto p roducts from Asia to Italy, facilitated 
by the increased  p roduction eﬃciency resulting 
from implementing t he Lean Manufacturing and 
Industry Rob otics Automation 4.0 strategies. 
Over 70, 000 units of p hoto supports and 15,000 
units of lighting stands p er year w ere produced  in 
Italy instead  of China.  E urope and Nort h America 
account  for over 80% of t he markets f or these 
p
roducts,  t herefore,  t he product  now has a 
smaller supply chain.
JOBY is a key b rand  for Media S olutions’ 
strategy and a  key grow th opportunity in the next 
t
hree years. As JOBY  enlarges it s product 
portfolio w e have made top-line product 
manufacturing more localised. 
I
n 2021,  Media Solutions extended  its reshoring 
project  with some ﬂagship  JOBY  GorillaPod 
p
roducts produced  in-house at our  automated 
facility  in Italy instead  of China.  The “Made in 
Italy”  stamp  diﬀerentiates  us f rom our 
competitors , gives us greater cont rol of the 
design and manufacturing p r ocess , improves 
customer service,  has  a lower environm ental 
impact,  is cost -competitive and enables  us to2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMI C & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
33Distribution and routes to market
We market our product s and services through 
our s ales and market ing t eams.  The m ajorit y of 
our sales are cond ucted  via a global network of 
distributors,  logist ics p artners , dealers,  retailers 
and e-tailers  who sell on to customers.  The 
b
readth of our p roduct  portfolio and our strong 
brand  heritage means t hat our networ k of 
channel partners is unrivalled  in the market s we 
serve.
We remain cons cious  of the imp act  of our 
d
istribut ion channels on the environment  and run 
consolidated  f reight  journeys when possible,  as 
d
etailed  on page 44.
We continue to expand  our grow ing digital and 
e-com merce capabilities,  working closely w ith 
our customers and supplier s to develop  our 
online
 presence.
Sourcing and manufa cturing excellen ce/continued 
Case study: supply chain 
management  during the pand emic
There were many d isruptions and delays 
throughout  2021,  mainly due to the pandemic.  
Delivering f or our end cust omers  is our main 
priority;  we worked  har d  to preserv e the supply 
of our products to ensure that the long-term 
prospects  for the b usiness  were not harmed.  
The Board  and senior  lead ership  team have 
adapted  to these circumstances,  w ith more 
frequent  Board  meetings,  forecasts to reﬂect  the 
reality and anticipated  impact  of the pandemic,  
and rigorous control of the cost base.
The int
egrity  of the supply chain was a k ey 
considerat ion among the measures act ioned  to 
protect  the business during the year, with the 
robustness of supply an issue that was actively 
managed.  Throughout  the Group,  we enhanced  
our p rocurement  p r ocesses to inp ut  orders  
earlier than usual to account  for delay times.  We 
also reviewed  our stock regularly,  closely 
contact ing supp liers and monitoring market  
t
rends.  Safety stock was kept at all sites, and 
numb ers were monit
ored and adjusted  
appropriately.  This d emonstrated  the 
eﬀectiveness of our screening of reputational 
and ﬁnancial risks for all major t hird  parties that 
we do business with.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMI C & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
34Sustainable procurement 
Due to Videndum's lead ing position in t he market, 
we
 are responsible for assessing our  suppliers. 
Videndum uses NAVEX  Risk Rat e to screen 
background  checks on a  new business partner or 
supplier.  NAVEX  Risk Rate is an ent erprise third-
party risk management  and vendor due diligence 
solution.  All current  suppliers  and business partners 
have
 been screened  through this database, 
alongsid
e regular  supplier audits,  w hich look at our 
suppliers’  raw materials and environmental 
management  systems.  These supplier assessments 
includ
e third-party certiﬁcation for major  brands 
through conducting Vendor Index Assessments.
E
thical and environmental considerations must  f orm 
p
art of the selection criteria for any new key 
supplier and manufacturing contractors.  Standard  
questionnaires have been developed  by 
procurement;  the nature and extent  of procedures 
will
 depend  on the risks involv ed.  For exam ple, 
additional procedures would  be performed  
regarding the environmental process f or a supplier 
of batteries.  For key new suppliers and 
manufacturing contractors,  a d etailed  site 
inspection must  be carried  out as part of t he 
selection process and the results and conclusions 
must be d ocumented  and retained.  
The nature and extent  of review  activities are 
proportional to each supplier’s risk. The  audit  
coverage must include t he key operational matters 
and the dimensions  of responsible supply.  We 
ensure that our audit  encom passes the entire 
supply chain.  If a  supplier,  manufacturer or 
business
 partner fails any  of our vetting processes 
or reviews,  we w ill cease to use them,  which has We aim to embed these steps across the  
Divisions in 2022 and 2023 and trace the source  
and production conditions of raw materials and 
production inputs purchased across our value  
chain. 
We aim to promote economic inclusion when 
selecting suppliers. At our Creative Solutions 
Division,  
suppliers have been selected due to 
being majority-owned by women or veterans; we 
are keen to continue supporting these suppliers.
Our supply chain team in the South of Asia is  
used to monitor our supply chain in the APAC  
region. Centralisation of APAC procurement will 
enable greater consistency and transparency. not happened  with an existing supplier.  A n 
example of t he robustness of our supplier vetting 
process occurred  w hen Production Solutions 
purchased  solar panels  for t heir manufacturing 
sites in Costa Rica  and the UK. The original panels 
investigated  came  from China;  a lack of 
transparency in the supply chain generated 
concerns regarding t he silicon in the panels. 
Videndum decided  against  these panels and opted 
to purchase solar panels made in South Korea  
through a E uropean p rovider t hat ensured  the 
visibility  of t he entire supply chain.
At our Media Solutions  Division,  sustainable 
procurement  and supply chain is a key pillar of 
their sustainability strategy,  usin g the following  
steps:
S
ustainabl e material  source 
Minim um b aseline req uirements of material 
sources.  A req uest  form f or resources used,  
energy consumption and source,  w ater 
stewardship,  chemicals and w ast e is created  to 
verify t he source of mat erials.
E
nvironmental  and social  impact assessment  
Adding sustainability t opics t o our vendor index 
assessments, d eveloping engagement  and 
communication p lans w ith suppliers , and setting 
sustainability as a standard  w ithin general terms 
and conditions.
S
ustainabl e product  
Align and meet  global standards on raw materials, 
products and p ackaging.  Draf t  a legally binding 
document  t o collect  all required  inform ation from 
suppliers.Environmental
Our vision  is to ensu re we limit any negati ve impact on the 
environmen t and protect the natural  resou rces we rely on, 
creating long-term  sustainabili ty for the business. 
352021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
36Our approach
Videndum is committed  to becoming a more 
environmentally  sustainable organisation.  As 
highlighted  in our E SG  strategy,  although our 
operations do not have a dramatic impact  on the 
environment,  we take our environmental 
responsibilities  seriously and have  implemented  
initiatives  t o reduce the environmental imp act of 
our op erations,  products  and services.
To reach our targets,  we have expanded  our 
reporting to better monitor and manage our 
envir
onmental impact  and t o continually  d evelop  
our environmental init iatives.  To drive t heir 
success , we encourage cross -Divisional learning 
and the sharing of success ful initiatives and best 
p
ractice of ESG performance.  
We aim t o adopt  technologies,  materials and 
processes  w hich minimise our impact  on the 
environment  and maximise o ur use of 
sustainable resources.
Our eﬀort s and environmental awareness 
continue to evolve to comply w ith regulations 
and to make our b usiness b etter and more 
sustainable.  W e have initiatives   aimed  at 
sustaining and p rotecting the environment,  
improving ener gy eﬃciency,  reducing carbon 
emissions,  w ater use and waste,  using 
sustainable materials  and p ackaging,  and waste 
disposal.
W
e also encourage environmentally  sustainable 
b
ehaviour at work and ensure  that our 
emp
loyees und erstand  how t hey can contribute.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
37Environmental targets and progress
Sustainability 
aspirationGoals
Reduce carbon 
emissions- Ensure that 100% of Group operations capture and 
report  on CO2 emissions;  current ly only capture 90%
of Group
-
-Reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 25% by 2024; 
50% by 2030;  90% by 2035, based  on our 2019 
bas
eline of 4,580 tCO2e
Reach net zero in our Scop e 1 and 2 emissions by 
2035
- Reduce Scope 1 emissions by 35% by 2027
- Reduce Scope 2 emissions by 50% by 2030 and 90% 
by 2035
- Reduce business air travel by 50% by 2024 (from a
baseline of c.1,000 tCO2e in 2019)
- Strategically reduce our Scope 3 emissions to meet
our 2045 net zero target2021 progress
Scop e 1 emission s are direct greenhou se (“GHG”)  emission s that occu r from  sources that are controlled  or owned 
by Videndum i .e.  gas usag e and transportation  fuel
- In 2021, we conducted site surveys to establish energy savings options to reduce demand and use of gas
- We are gradually converting the Company motor ﬂeet to electric/hybrid vehicles
- In 2021, the Group started  
to 
measure its refrigerants which account for 1% of the Group’s Scope 1 emissions and 
0.01% of the Group’s total car
bon emissions
Scop e 2 emission s are indirect GHG  emission s asso ciated  with Videndum's purch ase of steam,  heat or cooling
- Measures were initiated to optimise consumption, including solar energy systems implemented in Bury St 
Edmunds, UK and Cartago, Costa Rica. Currently assessing the feasibility at other Group sites
- Full conversion to LED lighting at  
Feltre, in I
taly in progress
- Secured renewable energy contracts in Italy,
 the UK and Costa Rica
Scop e 3 emission s are indirect GHG  emission s o f Videndum's value ch ain
- Limited ﬂights where appropriate by moving to virtual meetings instead
- Most Scope 3 categories calculated and revised our target to be more achievable and aligned with wider society
- Category 7 Employee Commuting example: Hybrid approach to working implemented and promoted cycle to work 
scheme. Employee Commuting accounts for 1% of the Group’s total carbon emissions
- Category 5 Waste G
enerated in Oper ations – wher e possible we collected and presented activity based data on waste 
(i.e. waste type, mass a nd disposal method)
Reduce packaging 
and waste
Embed sustainability 
into product life cycle 
(“PLC” )
Formalise 
the 
integrity 
of our supply chain- 50% of current cardboard packaging consumption will 
be replaced by sustainable, FSC gr ad
e cardboard or 
eliminated
- 50% reduction in annual consumption of single-use 
plastics b
y 2024
- Continue to reduce waste 
to landﬁll
- St
art recording water consumption
- By 2025 have imp
lemented a PLC (cradle 
to grave) for 
ﬁve of the Group’s top-selling products
- Work with our top ﬁve biggest sup
pliers by revenue to 
request supplier-speciﬁc product data by 2025. To 
understand the impacts of procured p
roducts on the 
environment and society, e.g.  virgin mat
erials vs 
recycled materials- We continue to drive initiatives for improved  recyclabilit y of all input s and raw materials  used in the manufacturing process
- Initial measurement  complet e and sever al initiat ives underway
- Our largest  manufacturing sites are already close to 0% waste to landﬁll,  supported  by ISO environment al programmes
- Informat ion on water consumpt ion is being gathered,  and a metric developed  to be disclosed  alongsid e energy usage
-Media Solut ions leads the way through a det ailed cross-funct ional exercise with Bologna Busines s School.  Product 
Life Cycle management  is already in place f or some products (Gitzo)  with a roadmap  for complet ion in 2022
- Target  the most  signiﬁcant  areas of concern in other Divisions,  such as lithium batteries and recycling around  electrical 
components
- Assurance to be provided  as soon as possible,  no later than mid-2022.  This will entail:
- Granular operations review  of all comp
onents.
- Vetting of all direct  suppliers to encomp ass ESG dimens ions.
- Reputat ional ris k around  supply chain alread y actioned  through RiskRate vetting.
- A responsib le sourcing policy is in place but must  be communicated  to internal and ext ernal 
stakeholders .2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
38Environmental management
As outlined  on page 15, we have an 
established  governance st ructure for our work 
on E
SG at the Board  and Committ ee level.  
The Board  ensures resources  are directed  
t
owards meeting our environment al targets 
and ob
jectives and has overall responsibility 
for
 environment al management.  We are 
starting to engage the whole busines s on ESG 
act
ivity no matter the level.  Each Division is       
encouraged  to develop  appropriat e measures and 
engage their
 colleagues to hit speciﬁc objectives 
depend ing on their operat ing conditions.
Production Solutions: Site Green 
Teams
Our Product ion Solutions Division introduced 
Site Green Teams to help with environmental 
management.  Site Green Teams comp rise 
members from the follow ing areas;  
manuf
acturing,  engineering,  purchasing, 
environment , health and safety, and volunteers 
who work on speciﬁc activit ies deﬁned  by the 
team.  Each participant  is personally 
commit
ted to the import ance of caring for our 
environment
. The team  meets at least once a 
month with the Head  of Operations  to review  
and tr
ack progress on agreed  ESG p rojects 
and initiat
ives. Many initiatives stem from this 
t
eam,  includ ing the solar panel project  in 
Costa Rica and the UK. process,  reduced  machine shop  cycle time and 
designed  or redesigned  25 ﬁxtures that facilitate  
and simplify  operations tasks .
ISO 14001  environmental certiﬁcation
Our Production Solutions ' Bury St Edmunds, 
UK, Cartago,  Costa  Rica,  and Media  
Solutions ' Feltre,  Italy sites are certiﬁed  to ISO 
14001 environmental  management  systems.  
The ISO 14001  audit  helps build a framework to 
manage environmental impacts and meet  legal 
compliance.  We aim to build upon these  
environmental management  accreditations and 
encourage all principal manufacturing  sites, 
where ap propriate,  to become ISO 14001 
certiﬁed.Production  Solutions:  Small Big 
Improvement s programme
Small Big I
mprovements ( “SBI”)  focuses on 
improving our understand ing of the environment.  
The main objectiv e of the SBI programme is to 
creat e and develop  a culture of continuous 
improvement  in all of Product ion Solutions’  
operations.  Employees are motivated  to think of 
better ways to do their w ork, focus ing on waste 
reduction,  material use, qualit y improvement,  
environment al improvements and health and 
safety.
There is a coordinator  at each site, usually  the 
operat ional excellence engineer,  who works  as a 
facilitator  helping peop le present  and document  
their ideas.  The engineer keeps records,  regularly 
reports results  and organis es small monthly  
celebrations  with participants.  The programme  
has gained  much traction,  with 67% of 
employees having participated  so far.
308 improvements were reported  during the year 
from employees across the Division as p art of 
this programme,  increas ing from 246 in 2020.  In 
2021,  the Small Big Improvements programme 
eliminated  18 unsaf e conditions,  reduced  paper  
and single-us e plastic bags  within the packaging 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
39Our Climate Change commitment 
Climat e change is a global challenge that aﬀects 
us all, and its implicat ions are profound  and 
mounting.  We recognis e the severit y of the 
climat e crisis and see it as a material threat.  We 
aim to provid e sustainable product s and services 
and ensure that our operations,  including 
manufactur ing processes,  supply chain, 
distribut ion network and support  services are 
sustainable,  ethical and have a minimal impact 
on the env
ironment.  Our climat e change 
commitment  includes  clear object ives and 
target s across all areas,  priorit ising actions that 
will d
eliver  the greatest  im
pact.  We collect 
detailed  data to report  our progress and 
credentials  comprehensively
, clearly and 
consistent ly to 
our stakeholders.
Each Division is taking on its own environmental 
projects
. A range of initiativ es has been launched 
based  on employee feedback,  geographical 
location and the type of w
ork at a site. Our 
environment al initiativ es vary across the Group; 
how
ever, each falls under one of the following 
themes:  G
reenhous e Gas emissions,  sustainable 
operat ions and products,  taking a life cycle 
ap
proach,  waste management
, water 
stewardship,  biodiversit y and supply chain. 2022 - Set Science Based  Target s ("SBTi")  - align our reduct ion t arget s with a 1.5°C
global warming scenario
2024
2025
2027
2030
2035
2045-Reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 25% from our 2019 baseline
-Scope 1: Convert 24%  
of ﬂeet to electric/hybrid
-Carbon neutral for Scope 1 and 2
-Reduce Scope 2 emissions b
y 35% from our 2019 baseline
-Reduce Scope 1 and 2 
emissions by 75% from our 2019 baseline
-Reach net zero for Scop
e 1 and 2
-Reach net zero for Scope 3
We have worked on our net zero strategy throughout 2021 and have analysed the data for Scopes 1, 2 and 
3 in accordance with t he 
Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) Protocol. We have set near-term targets as we journey 
to be net zero 
for Scope 1 and 2 by 2035 and Scope 3 by 2045. Over the coming months, the Board will 
review the various strategic options to achieve our near-and-long-term targets. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
40Greenhouse gas emissions
Carbon  balance s heet
Reducing the Group’s carbon footprint  is a clear 
priority  f or Videndum . In 2021,  we began 
calculating our Scope 3 emiss ions for the ﬁrst 
time.  Given t he magnitude of assessing the 
carbon emissions  f or our entire value chain,  we 
have set achievable milestones on extending 
the boundaries annually  f or complex cat egories 
to account  for all aspects of our  value chain.  By 
widening our data collection in line with the 
Greenhouse G as Protocol and SECR 
requirements,  we have a clearer picture of high-
emitting areas of our  operations,  providing us 
with a roadmap  for t argeting the best areas to 
reduce across  S cope 1, 2, and 3. Our Scope 1 
and 2 emissions  rep resent  3%  of our t otal 
impacts,  with Scope 3 emissions representing 
t
he remaining 97% .Emissions categories
Scope 1 2021
Gas
Transportation ( ex
cluding grey ﬂeet)  
Refrigerants
Scope 2 (location-bas
ed) 
2021 Scope 3 
2020Absolut e emissions 
(tCO2e)
1,357
1,027
316
14
2,524
119,435
71,858
4,002
816
18,182
45
679
1,828
N/A
N/A
N/A
22,017
7
2
N/A
N/A% of carbon 
footprint
1%
0.83%
0.26%
0.01%
2%
97%
58%
3%
1%
15%
0.04%
1%
1%
N/A
N/A
N/A
18%
0.01%
0.001%
N/A
N/A
Total all Scopes 123,3161.Purchased  goods  and services
2.Capit al goods
3.Fuel-related  emissions
4.Upstream transportat ion and distribution
5.Wast e generated  in operations
6.Business travel
7.Employee commuting
8.Upstream leased  assets
9. Downst ream transportat ion and distribution
10.Processing of sold products
11.Use of sold products
12.End-of-lif e treatment  of sold products
13.Downst ream leased  assets
14.Franchises
15.Investments2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
41Scop e 3
The most signiﬁcant  Scop e 3 emissions 
sources are those associated  w it h the 
product s and services purchased  for 
consumpt ion and us e. Additionally,  the use of 
sold product s substantially cont ributes to 
Scop e 3 emissions,  as does up stream 
t
ransportat ion and d istribution.Materiality Rank Scope 3 Category Emissions  (tCO2e) 2020
1 Purchased Goods and Services Total 71,858
2 Use of Sold Products 22,017
3 Upstream Transportation and Distribution 18,182
4 Purchased Capital Goods 4,002
 Total Scope 3 including Remaining Categories 119,435Greenhouse gas emissions/continued 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
42Energy resource management
The business’s  energy usage represents a 
signiﬁcant proportion of our environmental 
impact.
W
e monitor and track energy usage across  our 
manufacturing,  warehouse and administrative 
sites and make eﬀorts,  where possible,  to reduce 
our usage.  Many b uildings have been ﬁtted  with 
timers and motion sensors for lighting,  and 
programmable thermostats t o optimise heat ing 
and cooling.  The Feltre,  Italy, f acility has installed  
11 new air com pressors with an energy-saving 
inverter system.
LED ligh ting
We have continued  installing LE D lighting in 
many sites, aiming  to roll LED lighting out to all 
sites across  the Group. The planned  installation 
in the Feltre,  Bassano and A shby-de-la-Zouch 
sites by 2023 alone will result in an estimated  
80% energy red uction and cost savings of at 
least £60, 000 per annum.
Manu facturing
The Media Solutions  Division  has an operational 
strategy t o reduce the environmental impact  of 
their manufacturing.  The strategy stems  from 
analysing t he relationship  between automat ion and people.  One of the most 
impor
tant character istics is the shift of focus 
from technology-driven progress  to a human-
centr
ic approach,  which has several 
environment al implications in reducing our  
energy usage and waste by locating eﬃciencies 
in the design process.  Since 2010,  with the 
introduct ion of the Lean princip les, peop le have 
been put at the centre of Media Solutions’ 
manufactur ing operations.  New technologies are 
constantly being introduced,  and social and 
environment al beneﬁts continue to be capt ured 
through this process.  2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
43A very exciting project , highly valued 
by our employees and deep ly related 
to the well-know n culture of prot ection 
and conservat ion of the environment  
in Costa Rica.
Jul
io Lizano
VP Global  Operations,  Videndum  
Production  Solutions
Saving around 
13
tonnes
 of CO2 per year for
its expected lifetime 
of 25 years
Energy resource managem ent/continued 
Solar P hotovoltaic Systems
A core energy management  project  is  the 
installation of Solar  Photovoltaic S ystems at our 
Prod
uction Solutions  manufacturing sites at 
Cartago,  Costa Rica,  and Bury St Edmunds,  UK. 
Site Green Teams are responsible for driving this 
init
iative and measuring performance metrics.  A 
complete installation of the Cartago project  is 
pict
ured here at the end of 2021.  The system will 
provide more than a third (37%)  of the power the 
site needs,  saving around  13 tonnes of CO2 per 
year for its exp ected  lifetime of 25 years. The 
initial outlay  for t he project has come from the 
building’s  landlord,  who w ill recoup  the cost over 
seven years.  At that point,  Videndum will own 
the system and get the full cost beneﬁt  of saving 
on electricity.
The Bury
 St E dmunds solar panel installation will 
help achieve a 20% reduction in UK site 
emissions and expects p ayback in les s than four 
years, including tax beneﬁts.  The init iative helps 
oﬀset  our carb on footprint  through the cert iﬁed 
use of renew
able sources.  Other solar panel 
projects  are under consideration in  our Creative 
Solut
ions and Media Solutions  Divisions,  and we 
exp
ect projects  to b e viable at several other sites 
by 2023.The electricit y we source at our sites is another 
key area of our  energy resource management. 
Electricit y at our Bury St Edmunds and Cartago 
facilities  are supplied  from Renewab le Energy  
Guarant ees of Origin (“REGO”)  contracts.  Power  
supply contract s at the Feltre,  Ashby-de-la-
Zouch and Byﬂeet  sites were also moved  to 
REGO  contract s in 2021. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
44of the art software to recalculat e the new 
demand  for parts of our products.  When sm all 
volumes  of materials are handled, quantities 
from diﬀerent  suppliers are consolidated  in a 
Freight  Forward er hub in strat egically deﬁned 
places where containers are sure to be ﬁlled 
before being transported.
We engage with leading logist ics partners to 
ensure the responsive and timely delivery  of our 
e-com merce products.  We remain conscious  of 
the impact  of our distribut ion channels  on the 
environment.  The emiss ions associated  with e-
commerce products  will be oﬀset  by the end of 
2022.Transportation
Our impact  on the environment  does not stop at 
manufacturing.  We must reduce our carbon 
footprint  in terms  of the transportat ion of our 
p
roducts betw een production,  distribut ion and 
sales sites and in respect  of business travel b y 
employees.
Travel for business
All company  cars and transport  vehicles will be 
electric or hybrid  b y 2024.  Our transport  
emiss ions rep resent  1.26% of our  total 
emissions.  By 2024,  we aim to reduce b usiness  
air t ravel by 50%.  The p and emic restricted  
internat ional travel, but all facilit ies and locations 
were able to utilise on-sit e conferencing facilities 
w
ith virtual meetings held with internal and 
external parties.  This is a p ractice the Company 
intends to continue to reduce the need  f or 
unnecess ary air t ravel. 
Colleagues commu te
A programme to ﬁnance ( through loans) 
convent ional and elect
ric bicycles for our 
emp
loyees  is in p lace.  This p rogramm e is  
already imp lemented  in our  Production 
Solutions  Bury S t  Edmunds site, utilising the UK 
cycle to work scheme.  It is in the analysis 
p
rocess for our other large Product ion Solutions 
site in Cartago,  Costa Rica.As part of the solar panel installation,  we 
installed  four char ging stations for electric 
vehicles  in the car p arks of our Production 
Solutions  p lants in Cartago,  Costa Rica and will 
install ﬁve in Bury S t Edmunds,  UK. We plan to 
replace light-duty  d iesel vehicles with electric 
vehicles  and replace old trucks w ith fully elect ric 
smaller vans. Two electric v ehicles are 
operat ional at the Creativ e S olut ions California 
site. One is a t echnology repair truck and all 
lighting and electr ics are solar-powered  in this 
van from eight  s olar panels which are on the 
roof. 
Distribution  network
Our up str eam transportat ion and distribution 
emissions account  f or 15% of our  total 
emiss ions and form an integral part of our net 
zero strategy.  Due to the comp lexity  of our  
products,  long-dist ance shipments remain 
necess ary, and the pandemic has made it more 
diﬃcult  to reduce air s hipments.  Despit e this, we 
have plans and p ractices  to reduce our air miles. 
We aim to p rovid e suppliers with a purchase 
forecast  for 24 months,  establish delivery  p lans 
with deﬁned  lead times and improve our rout es 
to market.  We ad opt  a collaborat ive approach 
with our manufacturers  and logist ic partners to 
ensur e cons olidated  air freight  and use state 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
45Sustainable operations and products
Our products and services have a comparatively 
low impact  on the environment.  We use low 
hazard  materials,  minimise the use of resources  
during t
he manufact uring process,  and search 
for sustainable materials that can be recycled  or 
reused  across production and packaging.  
We aim to increase t he life cy cle of our products.  
Across  the Group,  w e have a comprehensive 
af
ter-sales  process to support  our customers to 
prolong the life of the products they purchase 
and keep them in the best condition possib le. 
Many of Videndum's products,  in particular 
supports,  are designed  and manufactured  with 
the intention of increasing their life cycle  for up to 
20 years  in some cases.  Production Solut ions 
has been working to  increase this life cycle, 
maintaining several B-stock channels w hich 
helps to prolong the use of products and 
support  them over t ime.
We
 also design and manufacture our products to 
have a limited  imp act on the environment 
regard
ing materials used  for production, 
packaging,  d
isposal and when in use. Moving 
f
orward
, we strive to prioritise p roduct 
sustainability and learn from  the progress  made 
in our Media S olutions Division.In order to reduce our impact  on 
the climate,  we are challenging 
everything from materials 
prod
uction to how our products 
are shipped  and used.
Luis Quehl
Design Dire ctor Lowep ro and 
Manfrotto, Videndu m Media 
Solutions
Media Solutions’  solution dyeing process
Media Solutions: case study – 
Lowepro dyeing
The Media Solutions’  Lowepro b rand 
introduced  a solution dyeing process to reduce 
water waste in t extiles.  Traditional textile d yeing 
is the second-largest  polluter of w ater globally. 
Therefore,  we are converting our most  used  
b
lack fabrics on our  most  popular lines  to 
solution dye by 2023.  Because black is 
notoriously  the most resource-hungry colour for 
wet dye, this is the most impactful change w e 
can make
Solution dyeing is the process of dyeing the 
polymer solution that is extruded  into y arn to b e 
woven into a  fabric,  combining the usually 
separate steps of extruding the yarns and then 
dyeing the yarn or ﬁnished  fabric.  Approximately 
80%
 less w ater is used ,  signiﬁcantly improving 
the
 carbon footprint  of the relevant  fabrics.
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
46We share our learnings across the Group. The  
Teradek brand in our Creative Solutions Division 
ident
iﬁed packaging as a crucial area to tackle  
and the team is in the process of testing and 
trialling diﬀerent packaging materials, including 
the use of recycled materials.
Identifying what material suits a certain product 
has been a key hurdle. The polylactic acid  
material performs better with smaller, 
lightweight, high-volume products. Alternatives 
are being explored for other products.Sustainable packaging
O
ur Media Solutions Division lead s in its w ork on 
sustainable p ackaging.  Current packaging was 
reviewed,  and three key  areas are being 
progressed  to lower the environmental imp act of 
packaging.
Product pa ckaging
Lowering the environmental imp act of current 
packaging b y gradually  changing  product  boxes 
t
o recycled  and FSC compliant  paper.  Replacing 
current polybags  w ith recycled  polybags or non-
plastic bags.
Upcycled pa ckaging
P
ackaging will be designed  to be part of the 
product  itself f or strategic products,  with a 
second  life after it s p urchase.
Reducing the impact  of logistic 
packaging
Red
ucing the volume of products,  red ucing 
additional e-commerce p ackaging and utilising 
reusable shipping packaging.
Biod
egradable packaging such as p olylactic acid 
and air pillows are b eing tested  in Production 
Solutions to replace plastic b ags.  G ood  progress 
is b eing made by testing d iﬀerent  products and 
testing d urability across  diﬀerent  shipping routes. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
47Taking a life cycle approach
Taking a
 life cycle approach is a key goal for 
Videndum.  We aim to emb ed  sustainability  into new 
p
roduct  development  and incorpor ate a new 
sustainability   product  life cycle management  system for 
our top ﬁve  selling products by 2025.
We plan to use the product  life cycle’s GHG  accounting 
and reporting standard  to complete the ﬁve product        
life cycle assessments while lever aging Videndum's 
existing strengths  across each  brand. 
Product life cycl e (“PLC”) assessmen ts
PLC assessm ents are the systematic analysis of the 
potential environmental and social impact  of 
products or services during their ent ire lives.  The 
scope can be deﬁned  as “Cradle to G rave”,  a linear 
approach or “ Cradle to Crad le”, a circular  approach.Case studies,  sustainability needs and diﬀerent 
PLC thinking were considered. 
Pilot produc ts such as the Gitzo Légend e bag 
which was launched in June 2021, comprises 
65% recycle d fabric, and Lowepr o launche d a 
PhotoSport bag with 75% recycle d fabric. The 
products are built to last by using the right 
materials for longevity – upho lding our 
Sustainable Design Principles. These successe s 
are paving the way for further PLC initiatives at 
Videndum.  Lowepro has plans to produce a full 
bag product range made of 100% recycled 
fabric by 202 4.
PLC provides standardised  metrics for our 
product’s impact on the enviro nment, 
supporting decisions in terms of waste 
prevention, raw materials,  and supplier selection 
for our produc ts. In additio n, PLC can be applied 
as a ﬁrst step management  tool or design tool 
for new technol ogy.
In our other Divisions, we are targeting the most 
signiﬁcant areas of concern for a life cycle 
approach, such as lithium  batterie s and 
recycling  around electrical components. In both cases,  the assessment  will evaluate  
and identify  environment ally weak points  
through analy sing the follow ing aspects :
For quantitative analysis of the environmental 
impact of the given product or service, we 
follow globally accepted standards and 
various software.  Media Solutions leads our 
PLC work through a n extensive cross-
functional exercise with Bologna Busine ss 
School. Cu stom workshops were run during 
2021 on the transition to PLC. ● Inputs - the original design of a product.
We consider the overall eﬀect of the
product on the environment, including the
selection of raw materials, part selection,
processing time and the sustainability of
each 
resource.
● Manufacturing process - the usage of
resources. Energy consumption, water
consumption and waste creation are the
key environmental indicators scrutinised.
● Distribution  - the impact of packaging
and distributing the product or service.
Packaging materials, tr ansportation means
and how to consolidate shipments are
considered.
● Consumer use - products will be safe in
use. Routine maintenance and tests are
carried out.
● End of life  - how products can be reused
and recycled. Consider the waste
hierarchy. If the product must be disposed
of, the most sustainable and safe means
are considered.
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
48
Battery disposal 
W
hile batteries are a more challenging product, 
an initiative is underway  t o tackle them in 
P
roduction Solutions.  This is f ocused  on 
recycling exp ired  b atteries in conjunction with a 
third-party and t he RainForest  Trust.
At our P roduction Solutions  site in the US, 
Call2Recycle recycles b atteries for both the site 
and existing customers.  Customers are  oﬀered  
a used  battery collect ion point  at our Shelton 
oﬃce.  Once the batteries  are collect ed,  
Call2Recycle is responsible f or p rocess ing them 
with certiﬁed  downstream vendors .
Videndum aspires  t o being the greenest 
provider of mobile power in the industry and is 
cont
inuously  exp loring alternative technologies 
in order t o minimise our imp act  and use of rare-
earth materials.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
49Waste management
Various init
iatives around  the G roup work  to 
reduce the amount  of waste created  in our 
op
erations.  We encour age recycling of waste 
products,  materials,  p ap er and other recyclable 
it
ems. We aim t o: use materials eﬃciently;  
prevent  or minimise waste t hrough design;  
maximise on-sit e recov ery ( reuse or recycle);  
and minimise w ast e to landﬁlls.
In 2021,  we committed  to captur ing the Group’s 
waste levels,  packaging q uantit ies and recycling 
init
iatives at all our sites to report  this similar ly to 
greenhous e gas emiss ions and energy usage.  
Targets have been set at the Group  level for a 
50% reduct ion in annual consumpt ion of single-
use p lastics by 2024 and for 50% of card board  
packaging to be replaced  by sustainab le FSC 
grade cardboard  or eliminated. 
Waste initiativ es
Initiatives  and p rojects are already well 
underw ay across  the Group  to reach our targets 
and we aim to report  our waste d at a in detail 
next year. 
We are in the ﬁnal stages of establis hing a repair 
centre for the US s id e of our b usiness.  The 
G
roup’s goal is to have a Divisional r epair cent re 
on the east and w
est coast  of the US , to cut 
cross -country  shipments and extend  our 
p
roducts’  lifetim e where possible.Still or sparkling water is available from 
dispensers in all break areas.  Disp osable plastic 
cup
s w ere rep laced  with tetrapak ones,  and all 
stirrers are now wooden.  All printers  are set to 
double-sided  and print in black and w hite.  With 
this multi-pronged  initiative,  the Division 
estimates a 1,500kg saving of plastic waste per 
year from t heir two Italian sites alone.  This 
init
iative helps t o encourage employees  t o adopt  
sustainable b ehaviours  in their everyday lives.
Creative So lutions: Green Revolut ion 
In our Creative Solutions  Ra’ anana oﬃce in 
Israel, a similar ap proach is und erway where 
colleagues  have  embraced  a  Green Revolution,  
whereby t hey aim t o stop using disposable tools 
to reduce unnecessary  waste.
Production Solutions : work ing 
towards  less waste
The Production Solutions  Division has  adopted 
DocuSign to reduce its impact  on the 
environment  by enabling employees to 
electronically s ign documents  red ucing the need  
for p rinting.  The Division reuses  p ackaging boxes 
and bubble wrap  to ship between sites t o reduce 
waste gener ated.  Once a month,  a collection 
centre for recy cling materials is set up at our 
P
roduction Solutions  Cost a Rica site. The 
initiative is labelled  “Videndum Recycles”  (page 
81).Across  the Group, we aim t o reuse boxes from 
shipments and p ackaging materials,  and we 
have established  special relationships at cert ain 
sites t o recycle d iﬃcult  materials such as metal. 
Creati ve Solutions : Digital Guides
For all new products  in the Creative Solutions 
Division,  p r inted  product  quick-start  guides will 
be replaced  with cards  containing a QR code as 
part of an initiative to reduce paper consumption.  
This
 project  enables  cust omers to access 
manuals,  FAQs,  ﬁrmware up dates,  and more 
online,  reducing waste associated  with 
Videndum products.  The  QR cards  use 75% less 
paper;  once  used  across all of Creative 
Solutions’  p roducts,  this w ill equal a paper 
reduction of 0.21 tonnes per year. These new 
Digital Guides will signiﬁcantly  cut t he need  to 
print materials,  r educing our w aste while 
enhancing customers’  exp erience. 
Media Solutions: Safe & Green 
Project
The Safe & Green Project  aims t o reduce plastic 
use and imp rove w aste management  within the 
Division t hrough small but signiﬁcant  actions.  All 
employees w ere p rovided  w ith reusable stainless 
steel water bottles to eradicate t he need  for 
plastic b ottles. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
50Through this p ractice,  we have avoided  40% of 
aluminium scrap,  eq uivalent  t o 15 tonnes of 
aluminium  w aste a year, and the remaining scrap 
is recycled.
Returned products
If a product  is returned  f r om a customer or 
d
istributor,  we re-evaluate t he parts and 
accessories.  From t his p rocess,  w e decide if the 
product  can be resold  or  if certain parts can  be 
reused  in the manufacturing process.  Core 
components  such as circuit  b oards are  often 
repurposed  and put up for resale on  our b rand 
websites.
Waste to e nergy
A waste to energy project  is being explored  at 
our Media Solutions  site in Feltre,  Italy. Waste t o 
energy is a key p art of the energy mix in the 
region and something Videndum is keen to 
explore.
Waste streams
E-waste
In the Production Solutions Shelton,  US site, 
Tradebe recycles  elect ronic waste,  partnering 
with a certiﬁed  d ownstr eam vendor.
Manu facturing
Waste metals at our Production Solutions,  Bury 
St Edmunds site are sorted  and recycled.  The 
site holds a zero waste t o landﬁll record  for all 
waste.  We sort typical waste f or recycling  at all 
Videndum manufacturing sites, using colour-
cod
ed bins to improve segregation.
Industrial scraps f rom our aluminium and 
magnesium manufacturing stages have been 
targeted  f or w aste reduction,  both in the design 
of our p roducts  and t he end-life of scraps. 
Current
ly, none of our industr ial scraps goes  to 
landﬁll. 
At our Media Solutions site in Feltre,  Italy, we 
previously used  f ull aluminium bars in our 
manufacturing p rocess . After analysing  the 
amount  of waste created,  energy  consumption 
and t
ime spent loading,  we have introduced 
systems to replace the full bars w ith aluminium 
tubes. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
51Water stewardship
In 2021,  we stated  that we would  start to monitor 
and track our water data.  In 2022  we intend  to 
embed  this process in our business and set a 
reasonable target  for reduction.  We aim to report  
our wat
er usage in the coming years publicly 
across  our manufacturing,  warehouse and 
administrative sites and identify areas to reduce 
usage where possible.  We w ill partner with third-
p
arty
 experts to ensure t hat accurate and timely 
data
 collection processes  are embedded  
t
hroughout  the Group.
It is important  to highlight  that we are not a big 
water user in our p r oduction processes,  
therefore,  water stewardship  is not a major issue.  
W
ater usage across  the Group  is  mainly from 
human consumption.
Each Division has implemented  a water-saving 
initiative
 to reduce their consumption.  Init iatives 
range from waterless urinals,  limited  ﬂushing 
op
tions on toilets  t o motion-controlled  faucets in 
lavatories.  Media
 Solutions  considers  industrial, 
domestic
 and run-oﬀ wast ewater and reports 
zero w
astewater at all sites.Our Product ion Solutions,  Costa Rica site is in a 
tropical zone wher e it rains 50% of the year. In 
the f
uture,  when we implement  an anodising 
process in the plant,  we will be able to install a 
system that collects  rainwater  and channels it to 
a container wher e it can be stored  for industrial  
use. The system can be used  for irrigation of 
green areas,  sanitary  services,  and other uses. 
The rainwat er project  has not yet been fully 
developed  but we see it as a promis ing initiative 
over the next few years.Production Solutions: water  
discharge, initiatives and usage  
Our Production Solutions,  Bury St Edmunds site 
annually  completes a water discharge  of trade 
eﬄuent  consent  form. They must obtain  consent  
from Anglian Water Services Ltd to discharge 
under  set conditions.  Production Solutions 
ensures it discharges within  the regulatory  
parameters and is subject  to inspection.  A long 
list of pollutants  is not permitted  in the water that 
we comply  with, and we pay a small fee to 
discharge  the trade eﬄuent.
When Production Solutions  relocated  to the new 
Bury St Edmunds  site four years ago, the water 
discharge  rate for the facility was dramatically 
reduced  - tackling the issue at a f undamental  
level.  In addition,  the number of times  we need  
to change  the water in baths for iodising paint  
was reduced  through upgrading machinery,  
saving more than 6,000 litres of water  a year.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
52The Rainforest  Trust’s  projects  cost-eﬀectively 
store and sequester  vast quantit ies of carbon,  
saving these forests is an eﬀectiv e way to ﬁght 
climat e change and protect  biodiversity.   Enough  
money has been raised  to protect  a total of  3,250 
acres of rainforest,  which will store over 
552,000 tCO2e. Any fundraising work is regularly  
showcased  within the Division in a monthly  
newslett er to increas e engagement.  Great  
examples  of existing initiatives  that beneﬁt  
biodivers ity are: meatless Mondays,  where  
recipes  are shared  around;  comb ining lunchtime 
walks with litter picking;  running environmental  
and recycling workshops  and plant ing trees near 
sites.
Biodiversity 
Although the Group  has little direct  cont act with 
biodiversity,  we recognise it s importance for  the 
planet
. We take care to ensure our  sites emit 
little
 pollution and are not disruptive to any 
nearby
 wildlife.  Across  the G r oup, we have small 
initiatives to encourage our relationship  with 
nature.
For the Creative S olutions  Irvine site in 
California,  a crucial w ildlife corridor  connecting 
the
 Cleveland  National Forest  wit h Orange 
County’s  coastal habit at is being built. The 
corrid
or will soon host,  among others , grey 
foxes and coyot
es and passes  right by our site. 
Our site was assessed  as a  part of d eveloping 
the
 corridor and was f ound  to have  little noise 
pollution.  The
 project  will help strengthen our 
relationship  with biodiversity.
At Media Solutions,  sustainability partnerships 
have b
een initiated.  Low epro is a founding 
member of SeaLegacy’s Good  Ocean 
community.  SeaLegacy  is a glob al network of 
storytellers who use  their art and expertise to 
inspire
 collective action and crowd funding to 
rebuild  ocean life for people and nature. 
Lowepro
 commits to making d ecisions across 
its op
erations to  support  the SeaLegacy 
mission.  Our Media S olutions Feltre site is near 
the Felt
re National Park  and must  comply with 
their
 regulations.  The site emits minimal light and 
noise pollut
ion to protect  local biodivers ity. 
Through the Picture of Lif e programme (page 78, 
our Auckland  team had a  tree planting day 
alongside the Orewa Estuary.  The newly planted 
trees have improved  water ﬂow to  the river.  Produ ction Solutions: Action4Goo d – 
Rainforest  Trust
Action4Good  was ﬁrst introduced  and then 
enhanced  by regular employee feedback 
sessions.  Now the focus is to support  tw o 
charitab le organisations,  one focused  on t he 
environment  (Rainforest  Trust)  and the other on 
social works to support  women with social/
economic disadvant ages (ActionAid,  page 63).  
The Division raised  £13,000 for the charit ies in 
2021.  Through partnership s and community 
engagement,  Rainf
orest  Trust  works to 
purchase and p
rotect  the most  threatened 
tropical forest s and save endangered  wild life. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
53
Biodiver sity/continued 
Production Solutions: Costa Rica – 
Blue Flag Ecology Award
The Ecological Blue Flag is an annual award  to 
showcase the eﬀort  and voluntary work of local 
entities,  public and private,  which seek to 
improve environment al conditions  in Costa Rica 
and mitigate and adapt  to climate change.
The programme aims t o establish an  incentive 
for local  community stakeholders to better the 
community in  which they live. I mplementing 
actions  t o tackle climate change is a 
fundamental area of the work t hey incentivise,  
and they actively  encour age the protection of 
natural resources.
There are  diﬀerent  categories in which 
organisations  can apply;  one of them and the 
one we consider most  important  is “Climate 
Change”,  which Production Solutions has been 
awarded  on two occasions.  The Climate Change 
category  seeks t o encourage organisations to 
develop  using the criteria of socio-environmental 
sustainability  and minimise  the risk of climat e 
change through comprehensive environment al 
management.
We are ranked  172nd out of more than 800 
award-winning companies.  Videndum w ishes t o 
utilise the compliance principles of the award  to 
establish deep-rooted,  biodivers ity conscious 
p
ractices  across  the organisation. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
54Supply c hain
We aim to work w ith our supply  chain  to ensure 
p
reference is given  to materials w ith a low 
embodied  energy,  minimal environmental imp act 
and locally  sourced  materials  where possible.  At 
Videndum,  w e communicate inter-
departmentally  and Divisionally with our 
suppliers  to diversify our supply chain. 
We have long-standing relationships with many 
of our suppliers and op erate in a transparent  and 
timely manner.  Moving forward,  we look to 
further formalise  our supply chain  integrity.  We 
aim to upgrade our supply chain  analys is to 
reduce environmental-related  impact  and risk.
We will conduct  a Group-wide  formal review  to 
ensure all suppliers  operate in terms  broadly  like 
our own policies  and procedures (at a minimum  
consistent  with Videndum's Code of Conduct) 
and that all raw materials  are sourced  ethically 
and sustainably.
As a part of our Industry 4.0 programme,  we 
look to localise our supply chain;  we have 
brought  major brands such as JOBY  from China 
to Italy, as detailed  on page 32.Supply chai n impacts
The impacts across our supply chain are 
important  to Videndum.  W e make products in 
Costa Rica,  a count ry that was selected  due to 
its relationship  with environmental 
accredit
ations and good  social priorities – a 
decision we mad e to strengthen our supply 
chain.
To red
uce our impact,  we run regular quality 
checks on products.  A part of t his process 
involves
 communicating any reworks or 
redesigns with our  suppliers.  To b est  reduce 
t
hese steps and our environment al impacts,  we 
look to rework parts in-house b efore sending 
them to our suppliers,  saving on shipping parts 
overseas numerous times unt il we get the 
design right. Social
Our vision  is to be the preferred  emplo yer for the very best 
people in  our secto r by providing  an entrepreneurial  environmen t 
that o ﬀers opportuniti es for our peopl e to develop  and thrive.
552021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
56Our approach
“Videndum is a socially  responsible  
company which demon strates  strong 
governance and ethical behaviour,  
and we are committed to continually  
enhancing our existing  environmental,  
social and governance activities. ”
Stephen Bird - Group Chief  Executive
W
e aim to attract,  retain and grow  a talented  and 
diverse  workforce,  providing equal opportunities 
for all while nurturing a sense of pride in being 
part of Videndum. 
Our employees  are the best in the sector,  our 
greatest  single asset  and critical to our success.  
Their attitude  and abilities,  experience and  
market  knowledge,  talent  and commitment   
create a culture that supports product  excellence,  
creativity and int egrity.  We monitor  and improve  
areas which  are important  to our people,  ensuring  
that we have consistent  policies and processes   
to acquire,  engage  and retain our best talent.  
Initiatives  focus on wellbeing,  working 
environment,  sustainability,  diversity,  employee 
b
eneﬁts and training.  We have comprehensive 
b
eneﬁts  packages to support  employees and 
remain globally  competitive.  We also aim to 
provide  our employees  with an engaging and 
stimulating  entrepreneurial environm ent  where  
they are encouraged  to learn and develop.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
57Goals 2021 progress Sustainability aspiration
Priorit ise health and safety
Improve diversity,  equalit y and 
inclusion
Community  impact-Improve Group’s overall gender diversity
-Over the next ﬁve years, aim to improve the G roup’s overall
gender  diversity from 70% men, 30% women.  At a senior
leadership  level,  we expect  the rat io of women to be at least  30%
-Continue to monitor  and manage progress
-Engage employees on
 this topic
-Positively  impact  the communit ies in which we operate
-P
ositiv
ely impact  one disadvantaged  young person for every
Videndum employee in the communit ies we op erate
-Continue monitoring and measuring progress-Provid e assurance on the numb er of accident  logs in 2021
-No accident s over three days absence in 2021
-External comp liance veriﬁcat ion is planned  to be
completed  every three years
-We have developed  a new D&I strategy with targets and
action plans tailored  to add
ress our industry and  our
 key
area of improvement:  a lack of female emp loyees in many
areas of the Group
-Our Code of Conduct  sets out an express prohibit ion on
discriminat ion of any kind
-Divisional programmes are being reinvigorat ed following
the pandemic—for example,  the “Picture of Life” in our
Media Solutions Division
-We
 will continue to develop  a structured  and coherent
approach
 and leverage external communicationsSocial targets and impact
O
ur key priorities and targets are tailored  to ad dress our indust ry and our areas of imp rovement , meet  the needs of our stakehold ers and contrib ute to the 
Company’s success.
-No major lost time accidents
-Expand external reporting to cover all accidents
(including those resulting in under three days’ absence) and all
near misses
-Continue to identify and monitor any health and safety limitations2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
58Our people
Our employees  are our greates t single asset  and 
critical to our success.  Their attitude and 
abilities,  experience and market knowledge,  
talent  and comm itment, create a cultur e that 
supports  product  excellence,  creativity and 
integrity.
The total number of employees across the 
Group  at the end of 2021 was approximately 
2,000,  corresponding to 1,568 FTE employees;  
48 people were hired  on a ﬁxed-term contract,  
while 36 contractors  and seven temporary 
workers were hired  throughout  the year and six 
third-party  employees  were hired.  
Depending on the role, we provide intern,  
part-time and temporary working opportunities 
to employees wher e possible.  We aim to collect  
and publish data on our employ ees by employee 
type categorised  by age, gender and region 
acros s the whole Group in 2022. 
Employ ee turnover and  new hires
We aim to ensur e our employ ees are proud  and 
happy to work for Videndum. The average 
percentage voluntar y employee turnover acros s 
the Group was 9.9%  in 2021,  which is an 
increase from 3.6% in 2020.  This increase is due 
to some changes  within the structure at Head 
Oﬃce and the results of the high demand  in a 
candidate driven market  for softwar e engineer s, 
aﬀecting the Creative Solutions  Division in 
particular . 2020 was a year of exceptionally low 
turnover due to the pandemic which reduced  
oppor tunities.  The table shows the number of new hires in 2021.
2021 2020
15% 9%
3.9% 2.1%
6.2% 2.9%
6.5% 4.0%
18% 0.0%Division
Creat ive Solutions
Production Solutions
Media Solutions
European Services
Group/Head Oﬃce
Average across the whole Group 9.9% 3.6%2021
154 
150
96
2
6Division 
Creative Solutions
Production Solutions (due to acquisition) 
Media Solutions  (due to acquisition) 
European Services
Group/Head Oﬃce
Total 408The table shows employee turnover in 2021.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
59Diversity & Inclusion - enablers for change
Videndum recognises  the import ance of having a 
diverse workf orce in successf ully delivering its 
strategy and aims to promot e a culture of 
inclusivity.  The eﬀect ive use of our employees’ 
skills and talents is encouraged,  which extend s 
to potent ial new employees.  Videndum is f ully 
committ
ed to an equal opportunit y culture where 
talent  is
 recognised.
In 2021,  we develop
ed a new Diversit y & 
Inclus ion (“D&I”)  strategy with target s and action 
plans tailored  to address our indust ry and t o 
actively recruit  more female employees in many 
areas of the Group.  Our D&I strategy looks to 
contribut e towards SDG5 Gend er E quality.
We need  to att
ract and recruit  more diverse 
employees,  particularly females,  and t hen 
develop  and retain them to deliver our strategy. 
We have embedded  diversit y into our 
recruitment  and progress ion processes, 
allocated  speciﬁc investment s to support  our 
activities,  and provided  annual data for the Board 
to review.
Due to our global footprint,  we are a culturally 
diverse company  operat ing across 11 countries, 
with 
a workf orce made up of many diﬀerent 
nationalities
. We aim to start collect ing data on 
ethnicit y in 2022 before setting an appropriate 
target  to increase our ethnic diversity. 2021 2020
M F M F
Group B oard of 
Direct ors (1)86% 14% 86% 14%
Operations 
Executive (2)92% 8% 92% 8%
Senior Management 
(3)85% 15% 88% 12%
Rest of Organisation 71% 29% 70% 30%
Contractors are excluded.
(1) Group Board of Directors is listed on pages 78 and 79 of the Annual Report.
(2) The Operations Executive is listed on page 83 of the Annual Report and 
includes the Group CEO and Group Finance Director.
(3) The Senior Management Team are the senior-most employees or teams 
within each Division and Group head oﬃce.The Board  continues to monit or progres s on 
equality  and the Group’s  gend er b reakdow n at 
the end of 2021,  with 2020 as a comparis on is 
shown below. The Board  regularly  reviews  the issue of 
diversity,  including at Board  level,  senior 
management  level and throughout  the entire 
workforce,  taking into account,  among other 
things,  Lord Davies’  review,  Women on Boards,  
the Hampton-Alexander  review,  FTSE  Women  
Leaders  and the Parker and McGregor-Smith 
reviews on ethnic diversity.  We will introduce  a 
“managing  diversity”  ob jective  for all managers 
across  the Group,  including  gender,  hire to 
develop  and succession p lanning  for existing 
teams. 
Gender diversity
We are aw are that Videndum operates within 
traditionally  male-dominated  industries.  In some 
countries,  the traditional business culture  
means that the number  of females  in senior  
management  is quite  small  despite a high 
female  percentage in the total workforce.  Our 
gender  diversity targets have b een  set 
accordingly.
Over the next ﬁve years, we aim to increase  
female employee numbers  to improve the 
Group’s overall gend er  diversity from 70% men 
and 30% women.  At a senior  leadership  level, 
we expect  the ratio of women to be at least 
30%.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
60focused  on engineering,  s ales, operat ions and IT 
d
epartments,  wher e f emales  are under-
represented.  We aim to share best r ecruitment 
pract ices across the G
roup as part of this 
p
rogramme.
Group policies
We have reviewed  all Group policies to ensure 
no unconscious gender,  ethnicit y or disability 
bias and to ensur
e informat ion on part-time 
working,  ﬂexi-hours  and maternit y leave is 
included.
Willis Towers Watson Global 
Grading System
Product ion Solutions have been exploring equal 
remunerat ion as part of their D&I eﬀort s. The 
Division has recently invested  in the Willis 
Towers W
atson Global Grad ing System to carry 
out a job levelling process.  This programme will 
deﬁne jobs and structure,  provid ing a foundation 
for reward  and talent  management  d ecisions, 
includ ing base p
ay, incentives,  career 
management,  workf orce planning,  learning and  
development,  and facilitat ing career mobility for 
all.Diversity & Inclusion/ contin ued 
Equal opportunities
Our D&I strategy aims t o foster an equal 
opportunities  culture,  encour age diversity  and 
inclusion
 among our workforce,  and eliminat e 
discrimination and has been communicated  t o all 
employees. 
Videndum's p olicy  is that ap plications for 
employment  by disabled  persons are alw ays fully 
considered,  bearing in mind the respective 
aptitudes and abilities of the applicant 
concerned.  If emp loyees  become d isabled,  all 
reasonable eﬀort  is made t o ensure their 
employm
ent continues.  I t is our policy t hat  the 
training,  career development  and p romotion of 
disabled  persons should  be, as far as possible, 
id
entical to that of all other employees.
Hire2Dev elop
Production Solutions  has launched  t he 
“Hire2Develop”  programme to further develop  
new employees.  The p rogramme aims to 
increase diversity within our  junior w orkforce,  
helping to develop  a w ide range of skills and to 
foster an envir onment  of creativity  and passion.  
The p
rogramme has been incred ibly successful,  
and 69 career expansions have been awarded  
between 2019-2021.  We plan to roll out the 
Hire2Develop  programm e across  the G roup,  
utilising available apprenticeship  p rogrammes   2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
61Employee beneﬁts
The Group adopts and adapts comp rehensive 
beneﬁt
s packages as ap propriate to ensure we 
attract  and retain the right talent.  These beneﬁts 
assist  in supporting our em ployees  and allow  us 
to
 remain competitive in a global market.
Each Division provides beneﬁts for emp loyees,  
including
 discounted  childcar e options and gym 
memberships depending on the country.  Our 
employees are entitled  to freedom of 
associat
ion. Trade unions  operate at our  Media 
Solutions  sites in Cassola and Felt re,  Italy, and  
our Production Solutions  site in Bury St 
Edmunds,  UK.
All beneﬁts are oﬀered  t o both full-time and part-
time employees across t he Group.
Pensi on plans
E
mployees have t he option to join pension plans 
appropriate to local  markets.  In t he UK, this 
involves a Company-approved  pension plan with 
the minimum employer and employee 
contrib
utions (currently 8%  employer and 4% 
employee)
, and in the US, a 401k plan. S ince 
April 2014,  all UK employees  have b een auto-
enrolled  into a  qualifying pension plan, except  
those who hav e expressly opted  out.Media Solutions:  beneﬁts snapshot
Our Media  Solutions employees in Italy receive 
long service awards or a cash allowance for 
beneﬁts such as gym membership  or  private 
healthcare
 to suit individual needs.  W e have 
extended  the supplementary  labour  agreement  
in I
taly, covering over 450 employees.  This 
focuses  on emp loyee beneﬁts,  including ﬂexible 
working,  child
care and bonus arrangement s.
Our
 Media S olutions Division engages 
proactively  with b oth unions (including FIM CISL, 
FIOM CGIL,  UILM)  and industrial associat ions 
(Conﬁnd
ustria)  in Italy. Union representatives 
have regular contact  with senior management  
and engage with employees  through structured  
sessions,  monitoring health and safety issues,  
employee wellbeing,  and general  business 
updates.  We consult  w ith union representatives 
regularly,  and their feedback is consid ered  while 
making business  decisions,  with the needs of 
the employees our top priority.  The Division has 
actively  collaborated  w ith industrial associations,  
including
 Conﬁndustria,  in ind ustry evolution,  
including the development  of our Innovation 
HUB.  We are committed  to improving employee 
educat
ion on pensions and other  ﬁnancial 
matters and improving the overall pension 
oﬀering.  O
ur UK deﬁned  cont ribution pension 
provider,  Hargreaves Lansdown,  ran  several 
educational workshops in 2021,  focusing on 
employee investment,  d ecision-making,  and 
expect
ations  around  retirement.  We hav e seen 
higher levels  of engagement  and inves tment  
decision-making by employees,  and over 340 
UK employees  now participate in  the Hargreaves 
Lansdown pension arrangement.  Investment  in 
the default  fund represents  60% of investments 
held
, showing that many employees t ake active 
control of their investment  decisions.  W e will 
continue to have these educational w orkshops 
to help educate our UK employees  on t his 
important  employee beneﬁt.
Flexible workin g
Videndum is supportive of employees enjoying a 
healt
hy work-life balance.  Flexible working 
policies are in place across our three Divisions 
and are op
en to all employees.  This is  usually 
granted  unless the needs of the business cannot 
otherwise be met .  Examples  of ﬂexible w orking 
policies above statutory requirements include 
smart working,  part-time working for parents 
wit
h young children,  optional maternity leave and  
ﬂexible hours working. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
62 Japan,  Australia,  New Zealand  and Israel. 
Sharesave allows  employees to save a ﬁxed 
monthly  amount  (up to £350)  to purchas e shares 
in the Comp any at a discount  of up to 20% on 
the share price at the time of an oﬀer.
Our Sharesave Scheme is extremely popular, 
with over 70% of Group  employ ees participating  
in the scheme,  demonstrat ing the close 
alignment  betw een our employees and 
shareholders.  We have speciﬁcally enhanced  
communicat ion across the Group  to ensure it is 
well understood  and encour age as many 
employees as possib le to participat e in the 
scheme.  Face-to-f ace presentat ions have been  
held at sites, and communicat ions have been  
translated  into local languages.  We plan to 
expand  training to online resources for all 
employees to explain the process further and 
how to get involved.
Employees have been speciﬁcally  excited  about  
the Company’s recent  share price growth.  They 
were happy to see the extens ion on the 
Sharesave Scheme follow ing the approval of a 
ten-year renew al at the 2020 AGM,  and we 
would  like to continue to extend  this opportunity 
to as many of our valued  employees as possible.  Level of Sharesave participat ion as of 31 
Decemb er 2021
CountryOutstanding 
options at 
31-Dec-2021Active 
participants at 
31-Dec-2021
21,548 21
29,730 75
8,206 4
27,132 18
7,657 5
89,794 46
594,377 404
73,006 42
33,478 23
12,938 7
2,483 2
356,491 332
307,751 471Australia  
Costa Rica 
France  
Germany  
Hong Kong  
Israel
Italy
Japan
New Zealand  
Singapore
The Netherlands 
UK
USA
Total 1,564,591 1,450Employe e beneﬁts/cont inued 
Parental leave
We oﬀer employees across the G roup maternity 
and paternity  leave above statutory 
requirements.  We op erate ﬂexib le policies  t o 
help employ ees w it h care need s and special 
leave if necess ary to deal with exceptional 
personal circumstances.  Our UK employees 
hav
e enhanced  maternity leave (four months’  full 
pay, ﬁve months’  half pay and enhanced 
paternity leave of t w o weeks’  full p ay).  Following 
local regulation,  US employees on maternity 
leave receive three mont hs’  leave w it h 60% full 
pay, while employees in Costa Rica receiv e four 
months’  leave.  There is no p aternal leave in the 
US, while Costa Rican employees receive t hree 
days’ full pay. In Israel,  employees are p aid  by 
the National Insurance I nstitut e for up to 15 
weeks for p arent al leave.  11 emp loyees t ook 
maternity leave,  18 employees took p aternity 
leave,  and t w o UK employ ees took shared 
p
arent al leave in the P r oduct ion Solutions 
Division d uring the rep ort ing period.  We plan to 
collect  and publish data on parent al leave 
across the whole G roup throughout  2022.
Sharesave
We oﬀer the Sharesave S cheme to all our 
employees in the UK ,  US, Italy, Costa Rica, 
France,  G ermany,  S ingapore,  Hong Kong, OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
632021 ESG REPORT
Employee wellbeing
E
mployee w ellb eing remains a top priority for t he 
Board.  We have continuously reviewed  and 
improved  p r ocesses across the Group  to look 
after staﬀ and improve colleagues ’ wellbeing.
Our emp loyee’s  ment al health is very important.  
We regularly conduct  ment al health and wellbeing 
risk assess ments to review  w ork load,  intensity 
and support.
We aim to ensur e our  peop le are engaged,  
motivated  and looked  after.  Follow ing the eﬀects 
of COVID-19,  we have cont inued  to provid e free 
and subsidised  meals in staﬀ canteens  in our  
manufactur ing sites. W ith employee health a top 
priority,  our remot e working framework has been 
extended  across  the G r oup, utilising the 
Microsoft  Teams p latform to collaborat e and 
interact.  S everal of our sites, includ ing Production 
Solutions,  Bury St Edmunds,  UK and Cartago,  
Costa Rica, oﬀered  ﬂu jab clinics during the year. 
Employee Assistan ce Programme 
(“EAP”)
Our EAP provides  f ree and conﬁdent ial support  t o 
all employees and their families,  including 
couns elling for emot ional and psychological 
support,  practical guidance and support  on legal,  
ﬁnancial,  family and work matters and online 
health and wellb eing resour ces such as videos,  
podcast  and d ownloads.  The service is 
conﬁd
ential and freely d elivered  by a third-party 
comp
any; it remains accessib le 24 hours a day, 
365 days a year. During 2021,  we continued  to 
roll this programme out ,  translat ing it into the 
local languages  commonly  used  throughout  t he 
Group.We understand  and appreciat e the importance  
of creat ing and nurtur ing healthy working 
environments for our employees.  We oﬀer our 
employees  several levels of healthcar e cover for 
them  and their families.  This is provided  as a 
non-contributory  taxab le beneﬁt  in the UK 
through AXA Health.  UK employees who do not 
join this healthcar e arrangement  can join an 
alternative arrangem ent  provided  by Health  
Shield.  In the US, our employees are oﬀered  
healthcar e cover  through several providers,  
includ ing Cigna and Kaiser;  employees can 
select their level of healthcare.  
Production  Solutions:  Action4Go od – 
ActionAid
Product ion Solutions’  ESG programme,  
Action4Good,  aims to make positiv e social and 
environment al contributions  through engaging  
employees to support  two charitable 
organisations,  Rainforest  Trust  (page 52) and 
ActionAid.
ActionAid  is an internat ional charity that works  
with women and girls facing socioeconomic  
disadvantages,  aiming to end violence and ﬁght 
poverty so that all women,  everywhere,  can 
creat e the future they want.  
Action4Good  launched  a series of initiatives  for 
donat ions linked  to an employee’s  contribution 
to a physical activity,  which would  improve their 
wellbeing.  Participat ion from employees was 
excellent,  and the initiative was a huge success,  
with 270 peop le involved.  The Division raised a total of £13,000, a  
staggering 25% over target, which was divided 
equally between the two charities.
The programme was so successful that  
Production Solutions plans to repeat it next year  
and
 is currently developing the 2022 plan.
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
64Media Solutions: employee 
wellbeing  programm e
Media Solutions  has  launched  a camp aign to 
support  employees and enhance w ellbeing.  To 
improve physical and mental health,  employees 
were
 given access t o a local gym and pool w ith 
a subsidised  cost,  encouraging emp loyees to 
unwind  and exercise to promote a healthy 
lifestyle.  The Division  promotes a healthy work-
life balance and has invested  in  reducing the 
prices of after-school clubs and summer camps 
t
o assist  employees w ith young children. 
Creative Solutions: employee 
wellbei ng programme
Family  picnics,  parties and wellness act ivities 
have been organised  at all Creative Solutions 
sites throughout  the year to increase 
collab
oration and mixing across the Division.  
Where
 necessary,  employee engagement  
activities were planned  through Zoom to ensure 
staﬀ working from home w ere not isolated  and 
could  maintain relationships and contact .
Employee wellbeing /continued  
Creative Solutions really achieved 
an impossible task by organising 
these events. They were a beacon 
of light in a very dark world at the 
time. They went above and 
beyond to make the world more 
normal but took every safe 
precaution they could. They 
brought back some normality to 
our lives when we needed it the 
most.
Jorge Rivas
Fulﬁllment Manager - Teradek
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
65Employee engagement
We communicat
e with our employees regularly 
using multiple channels,  keeping them inform ed 
of business  performance at a Group  and 
Divisional
 level.
All G
roup employees received  regular  updates 
on t
he business performance from the Group 
Chief  Executive throughout  the  year. These took 
the form of emails,  videos and all-hands up dates 
on performance and business  issues from 
Divisional senior management.
The Board  designated  Caroline Thomson  as t he 
Ind
ependent  Non-Executive Director responsible 
for
 employee engagement.  Caroline has  carried 
out this role for four years.
More inf
ormal communications take p lace in our 
Media Solutions  Division,  such as breakfast  with 
the
 Divisional CEO to p rovide an opportunity f or 
employees to exchange id eas and opinions  on 
business  strategies.  Welcome meetings at the 
Media Solutions’  sites are held quarterly  to 
introd
uce new colleagues to  the business.
In the Creative Solutions  Division,  “Through the 
G
rain” is a newsletter sent to all Wooden 
Camera employees  to keep  them up dated  on 
new products,  customer feedback and sharing 
employee volunteering and community service 
stories. health and safety,  wellbeing,  culture and values, 
communications,  and satisfact ion of working for 
Videndum.  Feedb ack was  reported  to the Board 
at its June Board  meeting and showed  our 
peop le are highly engaged.  Concerns raised 
focused  on when and how peop le ret
urned  to 
the oﬃce d uring the pand
emic,  increased 
workload  and emp loyee wellbeing.
Feedback
 on the survey was shared  with 
Divisional management  to take correct ive steps 
and improv e the employ ee experience.  We plan 
to repeat  further all-emp loyee surveys in future 
years since they provid e invaluab le insight.89%
posit ive feedb ack on all questions95%
of employees  feel that their safety,  health and 
wellb eing are a high priority for the CompanyProduct ion Solutions  launched  the “Oﬀ-Air”  
weekly newslett er to spread employee-driven,  
posit ive news  about  what everyone was getting 
up to during the pandemic,  includ ing charity 
work and volunteering.  With a return to 
normality, a monthly “On-Air”  newslett er has 
been launched  to focus on the business and the 
sharing inform ation on products,  markets and 
employees. The response has been incredible,  
with many employ ees contribut ing to the 
newsletter,  bringing a global and multi-cultural 
team closer together.
Employees are always given notice before 
change is implemented.  Notice for shutdown 
periods is communicated  to employees  at least 
the same amount of time as the expected  
shutdown. 
Employ ee survey
Passionate,  engaged  and skilled  employees in 
safe working environments  posit ively contribute 
to our strategy,  performance and reputation.  In 
May 2021,  we carried  out our second  all-
employee survey to help gather feedb ack from 
employ ees. 83% of employees participated  in 
the survey that focused  on ﬁve questions 
cover ing 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
66Case Study: Production Solutions
Production Solutions highlighted a plan to  
embrace a hybrid working model for white-collar 
employees following the pandemic. Employees had communicated  posit ive 
feedback towards  the model,  with many ﬁnding 
it motivating and that it increased  productivity.  It 
w
as noted  that I T systems performed  well 
during
 the pandemic,  assist ing remote working.
Caroline
 Thomson then followed  up w ith 
individual sessions involving up to  a dozen 
employees from our P roduction Solut ions sites 
in Bury St Edmunds,  Shelton and Cartago to 
hear ﬁrst-hand  from employees.  Feedback was 
p
ositive and subsequently shared  with Divisional 
management  and the Group  Board.  
We plan to repeat  the employee engagement 
session in 2022 with our Media Solutions 
Division
 and our Europ ean Services business . 
We also aim to expand  our data collection 
p
rocesses to include emp loyee turnover and 
new hire
 rates categorised  b y age, gender  and  
region.  We have started  this process  in 
Product
ion Solutions as shown below.525 employees
14 countries
9.6 years  average length of service
43 average age of employees
78%:22% male:female
Age
Under 30 20%
30-50 62%
Over 50 18%Gender 2021
Male 72%
Female 28%Region  2021
Costa Rica 52.63%
UK 22.81%
USA 15.79%
EMEA 1.75%
APAC 7.02%The table shows percentage of leavers by age and gender in 
Production Solutions in 2021.The table shows percentage of leavers by region in 
Production Solutions in 2021.Employee engagement  sessions
In October 2021,  Caroline Thomson held our 
fourth employee
 engagement  session wit h 
employees  in our Production S olutions Division. 
The session involved  a d etailed  overview 
provid
ed by Nicola Dal  Toso (Divisional CEO) 
and Penny Wisd om (Divisional HR Director) , 
covering progress within the Division since the 
last review  in 2019 and the impact  of the 
pand
emic upon employees.  S imilar sessions 
have b
een held wit h our other  Divisions.  The 
review  covered
:
-Working practices  in response to the
pandemic,  includ ing ﬂexib le working
pract ices
-Talent  management
-Communication
-
-Gend er diversit y includ ing a target  to
achieve 40%  f
emales in the w
orkforce
within ten years and measures to achieve
this
The integrat ion of Quasar follow ing the
acq
uisition in April 2021
-
-Our Human Resour ces team
Priorities  around  employee engagement
(leader ship, peop le management,
meaningf ul work,  work environment,  growth
opportunit ies and Action4G
ood initiatives
focused  on ActionA
id and Rainforest  Trust)2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
67Learning and development
Media S olutions
In 2021 our Media Solutions Division invested 
€150,000 (£125,000 on training programs.  The 
focus of the training was the improvement  of 
both technical skills and soft skills, such as, 
health
 and safety,  communication skills, 
leadership  and problem  solving.  The Division has 
continued  t
o deliver  online d ata security training 
for employees,  increasing  awareness  of the need  
to be vigilant  on the issue of cyber security and 
data protection.  Upskilling employees is an 
imp
ortant  focus and Italian language courses are 
oﬀered  to
 non-Italian employees across t he 
Division.
Production So lutions
There are current ly nine employees on our 
E
nglish Language P rogramme in Production 
Solutions  at our Cost a Rica site, and we intend  
to increase this number  over  time.  I n 2021,  
Production Solutions  invested  £50, 000 into 
enhancing its health and safety training for 
employees.  Peop le management  training took place for 20 
managers across our Product ion S olutions’  US 
and Costa Rica sites in early February 2022.
We partner with external vendors such as the 
American Management  Association to oﬀer our 
employees the best training resources.
Product ion Solutions introduced  a robust 
Individ ual Development  Plan (“IDP ” approach to 
learning and development  alongsid e a training 
budget  throughout  the year. Development  and 
training requirements speciﬁc to each employee 
can now be captured  and implement
ed. The IDP 
has been very successf ul across the Division and 
will be reviewed  half-year ly to assess progress  
and introd uce continuous  improvements  based 
on speciﬁc employee feedback.
Product ion S
olutions also sponsor various 
professional qualiﬁcations  across all d isciplines 
where they ar
e identiﬁed  as part of an ind ividual’ s 
development  plan.  We invest  in our  employees to ensure we oﬀer 
them the b est  career development  plans for 
their success and the success of the Company. 
Videndum aims to oﬀer  a comprehensive 
training
 and development  programme linked  to 
p
erformance reviews  and organis ational needs.
W
e want our employees  to d evelop  and grow.  
The Board  reviews lead ership  and succession 
plans across each of the Divisions to ensure  a 
structured  approach to growing and developing 
the
 Company’s future leaders.  We encourage 
inter-Company recruitment  between Divisions,  
including
 the Group Head  Oﬃce and oﬀer 
app
renticeship  programmes  in many diﬀerent  
busines
s areas ranging from Engineering,  
Business Analysis  and HR.
Prod
uction Solutions  has launched  the 
Hire2Develop  p
rogramm e. Our Media S olutions 
Division has int roduced  a new appraisal system 
to
 improve personal career reviews.  Creative 
Solutions  has initiated  t arget  personal 
d
evelopment  programmes. 
Training
All employees receive training on health and 
safety procedures appropriate t o their line of 
work and environment.  W e continually  review  
and expand  t
raining options for staﬀ. We aim to 
enhance how we capture and report  all 
employee training across the Group in 2022.  2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
68
Growt h Space,  for me, was a 
great  experience.  The professional 
1-on-1 sessions were invaluab le to 
my role here at Creat ive Solutions. 
As someone coming from ﬁeld 
production,  I wanted  to 
understand  how my skills could  be 
better ut
ilised  within the brand
s. I 
would  highly  recommend  the 
mentorship  program me to anyone 
looking to build  on their own 
careers within our brands.
Jam
ie Brow
n
Techn
ical Suppo rt Team  Lead  - 
SmallHDLearning and development/continued 
Creative Solutions: Growth Space
Employees of Creat ive Solut ions Cary,  USA site 
have been piloting the Grow th Space 
programme,  the world’ s leading employee 
developm
ent platform,  provid ing access to 1-
to-1 coaching,  m
entoring and personalis
ed 
group  programmes.  With access to 500+ vetted 
experts in 30+ countries,  each employ ee is 
matched  with the perfect  expert  for personal 
growth.  The system oﬀers programme 
management  and oversight  at scale, helping the 
Division address development  gap s and 
connect  employ ee d
evelopment  to speciﬁc 
business goals.  Relevant  employees are 
provid
ed with role-sp eciﬁc training and we aim 
to roll this out to all other Creative Solutions’ 
sites and then the other  Divisions.
Leaders
hip and management  development 
training is in place at our Creat ive Solutions’ 
Israel site. We plan to roll this out, alongside 
d
iversit y training,  to our managers at all Creative 
Solut ions sites. All US employees across the 
Creat ive Solutions’  Division are enrolled  in 
gener
al training,  includ ing G
DPR and sexual 
harassment.  We plan to roll this training out to 
all employees  in 2022.
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
69Health and safety
The health and safety of our peop le is of the 
ut
most  import ance to Videndum.  We op erate to 
stringent  standards at all Videndum sites to 
minimise risk.  We are committed  to ensuring the 
safety,  health and welfar e of all employees, 
contractor
s and others who may be aﬀect ed by 
our activities.  We have continued  to share best 
practices across the Group  and have a 
dedicated  Safety Management  System and 
management  structure f or health and safety 
across the Group. In addition,  we continue to 
train all staﬀ members on safety relevant  to their 
roles. 
Our Healt h and Saf
ety Policy is communicat ed to 
all site management  and employees and sets 
guidelines for adequat ely controlling health and 
safety risks arising f rom work-relat ed accidents. 
Our G
roup Company Secretary and HR Director 
has overall responsibilit y for creat ing and 
implement ing this p
olicy.  The policy  is regularly 
reviewed  and updat ed to address emerging risks 
such as COVID-19.
In 2021,  the new acquisit ions of Quasar, 
Lightst
ream and Savage were fully integrated 
into the Group’s Healt h and Safety Policy and 
procedures  to ensure that new acquis itions  are 
operat ing to high Group
-wide health and safety 
standards. Chief  Executive within 24 hours.  W e have 
recorded  and disclosed  our accident  record  for 
the
 past ﬁve years (page 70).  Each event  is 
thoroughly investigated,  and remedial action is 
taken where necessary to prevent  repeat  
occurrences.  There have been  no work-relat ed 
fatalities
 since the Group began collating health 
and safety statistics in 2002.  
Our ﬁve-y
ear accident  record  details the number 
of accid
ents resulting in over three  days’  
absence,  accident
s resulting in  less than three 
days’  absence and near misses from work 
across t
he Group.  There w ere no accidents  
resulting in over three  days’  absence in 2021,  
consistent  with 2020 and comp ared to two in 
2019.COVID-19
When
 faced  with COVID-19,  the Group 
implemented  appropriate measures  to f ollow 
local government  advice and ensure a minimum 
G
roup-wide standard.  Appropriate risk 
assessments
 for those working on-site and  
remotely were prepared,  communicated  and 
adhered  to. We identiﬁed  potential unsafe 
working conditions  where employees w ork in 
proximity and introduced  controls  to mit igate the 
risks, including social distancing where 
necess
ary and provided  f ace coverings.  We 
have also provided  regular testing at many of our 
sites and track instances  where our  employees 
have b
een infected  or self-isolated.  COVID-19 
p
revention procedures have b een continuously 
communicated  t
o employees across t he Group. 
Reporting
We
 promote a culture of continuous 
improvement  to p r event  any major incidents,  and 
our goal is  to have  zero signiﬁcant  lost time 
accident
s. Our robust  reporting system ensures 
all accid
ents and near misses are account ed for, 
whether  they result in ab sence from work or not. 
The
 reporting process is  prompt  and any 
accident  resulting in over  three days’  ab sence is 
reported  to senior  management  and the  Group OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
70Year Incident type Number Comment
20210No accidents resulting in over 3 days of absence for the second year in succession. This represents 0 accidents per 100,000 
employees. The av
erage number of employees in 2021 was 1,771
43
128 Near misses include events or circumstances that could have resulted in an accident
20200 This represents 0 accidents per 100,000 employees. The average number of employees in 2020 was 1,569
42
110 Near misses include events or circumstances that could have resulted in an accident
20192 This represents 117 accidents per 100,000 employees. The average number of employees in 2019 was 1,714
54
112 Near misses include events or circumstances that could have resulted in an accident
20182 This represents 116 accidents per 100,000 employees. The average number of employees in 2018 was 1,723
58
99 Near misses include events or circumstances that could have resulted in an accident
20177 This represents 418 accidents per 100,000 employees. The average number of employees in 2017 was 1,675
46Accidents resulting in 
over 3 days absence
Accidents result ing 
in 3 
or less days absence
Near misses
Accidents result
ing in 
over 3 days absence
Accidents result
ing in 3 
or less days absence
Near misses
Accidents result
ing in 
over 3 days absence
Accidents result
ing in 3 
or less days absence
Near misses
Accidents result
ing in 
over 3 days absence
Accidents result
ing in 3 
or less days absence
Near misses
Accidents result
ing in 
over 3 days absence
Accidents result
ing in 3 
or less days absence
Near misses 93 Near misses include events or circumstances that could have resulted in an accident2021 ESG REPORT
Health and  safety/conti nued 
Videndum's ﬁve  year accident  historyOVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
71As a result,  over 700 employ ees are covered 
by an accreditat ion on health and safety.  The 
standard  helps build a framew ork to manage  
health and safety impact s and meet legal 
compliance.2021 ESG REPORT
Health and safety/contin ued 
Audits
To enhance our overall safety objectives,  we 
p
artner with third-party specialists for an 
ind
ependent  audit  of our standards  every t hree 
years and implement  improvements and 
recommendations  throughout  t he business . 
Safety practices  and procedures are reviewed,  
including accident  investigation procedures,  
housekeeping,  general safety and more recently,  
COVID-19 practices.
These audits have found  t hat  our management  
has a genuine  interest  in the safety and wellbeing 
of our employees.  We are  highly invested  in 
develop
ing safety programmes,  recordkeep ing 
and training.  The results of our external 
comp
liance reviews are reported  to t he Board,  
and action plans with cor rective measures to 
ad
dress any gaps have b een implemented.  
Follow-up  aud
its have been arranged  to ens ure 
all areas are addressed.
Hazards
Due t
o the nature of our business,  we have  a 
thorough hazard  id entiﬁcation and risk 
assessment  p r ocess.  Each Division maintains  an 
active
 risk assessment  record  b efore all projects  
and activ
ities. These risk assessments  are 
complet
ed for all emp loyees,  contractors  and 
others visiting the Videndum sites. There is a detailed  mitigation and action plan for 
every potent ial risk communicated  and agreed 
upon betw een the Healt h and Safet y Manager 
and participants.
We encourage our employees and contractor s to 
take a proactiv e approach to managing and 
report ing hazards.  We routinely  review  our risk 
assessment  process,  and when site conditions  
change,  new procedur es are added  to prevent 
the development  of unsaf e working conditions.
Employees  are trained  on proper  and safe use 
and maintenance of machinery and proper 
material moving and lifting proced ures for 
speciﬁc job duties.
We have a system for communicat ing safety 
issues and training and updat ing our colleagues 
across the Group.  We display labour laws and 
univers al visual safety signage acros s our sites, 
using visual aids to accomm odate all employees 
despit e language or visual impairments.
The Product ion Solutions’  sites in Cartago,  Costa 
Rica and Bury St Edmunds,  UK, and the Media  
Solut ions sites in Bassano and Feltre,  Italy, were 
certiﬁcated  with the standard  UNI EN ISO 45001. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
72Our customers 
We value the relationships we d evelop  with our 
customers.  Videndum's purpose is to enable our 
custom
ers to cap ture and share exceptional 
cont
ent. As imaging technology has improved,  we 
are
 proud to oﬀer our customers market -leading, 
innovative products.
All major customers are act ively screened  for 
reputational and ﬁnancial risks to ensure  no 
app
arent  issues  of concern t hat could  damage the 
Company.  Clear t erms and cond itions are 
documented,  including service levels,  payment  
terms  and working practices.
Customer e ngagement
Our customers include b roadcasters , ﬁlm studios, 
production and rental companies,  photographers,  
ind
ependent  content  creators,  (“ICCs”),  vloggers,  
inﬂuencers,  gamers,  professional sound  crews,  
and enterprises.  
Designing,  manufacturing and distributing high-
perf
ormance products to make our customers’  
lives easier is  what d rives us. Our long-s tanding 
and extensive market  expertise enables us to 
remain close to our customers,  ant icipating and 
responding to developments to ensure that our 
brands remain at the forefront  of the ind ustry,  
renowned  for their premium oﬀerings  and market-
leading technology.We regularly engage with our customers,  and 
the Board  is
 kept inf ormed  about  the wide 
variety of the Company ’s customers,  their 
changing needs and trends in buying patterns. 
Marketin g and label ling
We consider market ing and labelling 
requirements when preparing and d elivering 
products for our cust omers.  We follow  
regulations  and best practices  to ensure 
cust
omers  are ap propriately informed  when 
purchasing products.
All our
 products contain labels d etailing the 
country of origin of the ﬁnished  product  and 
includ e instructions f or safe use. We include 
instructions  for the safe and appropriate 
disposal of our packaging and elect rical 
products.  We have extended  our Call2Recycle 
p
artnership  to support  customers to recycle 
used  b
atteries (page 48) . Our products are 
comp
liant regard ing regulat ion on chemicals 
and substances,  and where required,  we include 
inf
ormat ion on the content  of the products.
Creative Solut ions has  recent ly introduced  an 
initiative to enhance the market ing and labelling 
of our customer p roducts.  Printed  quick-start  
guides  have been replaced  with QR codes;  see 
page 49 f
or more inf ormation.
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
73There have been no instances of 
non-comp liance with regulat ions or voluntary  
codes relating to custom er health and safety 
throughout  the report ing year.
Our products  are assessed  for health and safety 
impact s throughout  the design and 
manufactur ing process  to minimis e the risk. 
Every new product  is subject  to rigorous safety 
testing as required  by local regulations.  Thermal 
chamb er testing is carried  out to verify that 
product s can operat e within speciﬁcat ion at 
upper-temperat ure limits and vibrat ion testing is 
conducted  to ensure parts do not shake loose in 
transit or vibrating environments.
Elect ronic product s are subject  to further testing, 
such as our accept ance test procedure, 
comp rising a physical,  electrical and functional  
test. We conduct  electromagnet ic interference  
and electromagnet ic compatibility  unintentional 
radiat ion and susceptibility testing for all new 
product s that includ e any electronics or active 
circuitry.  Radiofrequency  testing is compulsory  
for all new product s containing a radio 
transmitter.  In cases wher e we use oﬀ-shelf 
equipment  like WiFi or Bluetoot h modules,  we 
select modules that are alread y tested  and 
approved  to be used  in a modular application. 
We perform these tests for every count ry or 
region a product  is deployed  in.Customer p rivacy
The privacy of our customers’  data is of extreme 
importance to us. Customer inf ormation,  
including personal and account  d etails,  is held in 
our system and protected  by GDPR  and third-
party d ata  security systems.  Det ails of this can 
be found  in our Group  IT Policy.
There  have b een  no substantiated  complaints  
concerning  customer p rivacy breaches from 
outside  parties or regulatory  bodies.  No leaks,  
thefts or losses of customer d ata were identiﬁed  
throughout  the reporting  period.  2021 ESG REPORT
Our customers/contin ued 
Helping our customer s adopt a 
sustainable  lifestyle
Our customers are  becoming increasingly 
interest
ed in sustainability,  making more 
responsible choices  in t heir purchases and 
expect
ing more from their brands.  W e see this 
as an op portunity to assist  our customers on 
their
 sustainability  journey  by oﬀering 
lower-emission alternative products.
Continued  technology  enhancements  have 
allowed  Videndum to make innovative changes 
t
o our design process and p roduce more 
sustainable products.  Our experienced  t eams, 
clear strategy,  premium brands,  eﬃcient  supply 
chain and global distribution focus on delivering 
outst
anding products  and services to our 
custom
ers. As detailed  on pages 45 to 47, we 
have begun integrating ESG int o our business 
p
ractices  and processes  and embedded  
sustainability  into b r and strategies to develop  
sustainable products and packaging.  W e are 
enabling customers to m ake a diﬀerence with 
their purchases. 
Customer he alth and safety 
The health and safety of our cust omers  is a 
priority for t he Group.  As most of our products  
are access
ories,  it is essential to highlight  t hat 
they pose little risk to our  customers.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
74Supply chain
At Videndum, we aim to uphold  high  ethical 
standards  while dealing w ith all stakeholders.  We 
constantly improve our practices  and processes 
to maintain safe and responsible operations 
across our supply  chain.
We are
 committed  to acting responsibly and 
conducting
 our business  operations  with 
integr
ity. All our suppliers must comply with t he 
terms of our Code of Conduct  or have standards 
that are compatible with our ow n.
The G
roup sources  components,  materials  and 
services worldwide.  We  recognise that our 
supply chain activities  have  a b r oad impact  and 
that our responsibilities extend  beyond  our 
operat
ions and those of our suppliers. 
Supply chain  vetting 
We aim
 to reduce the risk of negative imp acts on 
society  and the environment  throughout  our 
supply chain.  We are cond ucting a 
Group-wide standards  review  to ensure that all 
suppliers operate terms aligned  to our  policies 
and procedures,  and that all raw materials are 
sourced  ethically and sustainably.  We expect  to 
complete this process by t he middle of 2022.
The Group  has recently  developed  our 
Responsib
le Sourcing Policy  and has When sourcing minerals, we aim to conduct a  
country-of-origin assessment to ensure  
materials do not emanate from a region 
aﬀected b y
 conﬂict.
In 2022, we aim to explore the end-to-end 
supply chain for products and services 
involving multiple levels of suppliers to improve  
visibility. We must ensure that our evaluation  
encompasses the entire supply chain.communicated  this to all suppliers.  This p olicy  
reinfor ces our commit ment  to engaging with our 
suppliers.  I t applies t o all Videndum employee s 
across the group involved  in purchasing and 
sourcing activit ies and consult ants, contractors 
and agency  staﬀ concerning their work for, or on 
behalf  of, Videndum.
Our Divisions  actively monitor supplier 
relationships,  cond uct  annual reviews and follow 
strict sustainab le p rocurement  p rocesses t o 
uphold  the Group  working standards across our 
supply chains.  Our senior management  has built 
close relationships w ith our suppliers over several 
years, enab ling us to understand  their w orking 
pract ices b etter and be conﬁd ent in their integrity.
We procure materials f rom reputab le suppliers  
and produce our products  in eﬃ cient  and 
environmentally f riendly operat ions and ,  where 
appropriate,  in low er-cost  count ries such as 
Costa Rica,  China,  V
ietnam and Myanmar.  W e 
are aware of the p otent ial risk of child and forced 
labour across our supply chain,  speciﬁcally in 
China.
We conduct  supplier risk assess ments to review 
health and safety procedures,  run checks against 
f
orced  and child labour risks,  and protect  IT 
security and d ata. OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
752021 ESG REPORT
Responsible practices
W
e aim t o partner with suppliers  committed  to 
sourcing ﬁnished  good s  and raw materials in a 
compliant  and responsible w ay.  Videndum,  
together  w ith its suppliers,  must adhere to the 
United  Nations 10 Principles of the Global 
Compact  covering:  Human Rights,  Labour,  
Environment  and Anti-Corruption. 
R
especting human rights
We fully support  t he principles  set out in the UN 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  Our 
p
olicies  and p rocedures  reﬂect  t he principles 
contained  within the Declaration.
Key suppliers and manufacturing contractors are 
regularly  review ed  and must  validate their 
compliance with UN guidance on human rights.  
Suppliers are expected  to treat their workers 
equally and with respect  and dignity.  We request  
supporting evidence that forced  labour and child 
labour  ar e prohibited;  wages are at least above 
minimum  legal  standards;  w orking hours comply 
w
ith local directives  and no  employees  w ork 
more than 60 hours in any given  week. 
Modern  slavery
We are committed  to ensuring t hat  slavery and 
human traﬃcking do not exist in our business 
op
erations or supply chain  and continually 
develop  our monitoring systems to stamp  out the issue.  We continually  monitor the situation  
through an online databas e and site visits.  We 
support  the Modern Slavery  Act 2015 and have a 
slavery and human traﬃcking statement,  setting 
out our process es to eliminat e this issue.
Our long-stand ing business  partner and supplier 
relationships  enab le us to understand  their 
working pract ices better and be conﬁdent  that 
no slavery or human traﬃcking occurs.
The Group’s  NAVEX  whistleblow ing service  
supports  our processes,  and we are pleased  to 
declare that no reports of slavery or human 
traﬃcking have ever been made.  We will 
prompt ly and thoroughly investigat e any claim  or 
indicat ion that a supplier  is engaging in human  
traﬃcking or slavery or has contravened  our 
Code and would  not hesitat e to terminat e our 
relationship  with that supplier if the allegations  
were substantiated.
Employees  receive period ic training covering our 
Code of Conduct.  Addit ional training is provided  
to those employees whose roles are more likely 
to be impacted  by slavery or human traﬃcking 
issues.  Our internal audit  funct ion also considers  
reputat ional risk issues and the integrit y of the 
supply chain and acts as a further check on the 
risk around  modern slavery and human  
traﬃcking. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
76Giving back 
Support ing and integrat ing with the local 
communit
ies and economies  we operat e in 
is important  to Videndum and our 
emp
loyees. W e invest  in project s that align 
with our core values and  look for 
opportunities  to positively impact  one 
disad
vantaged p erson for every Videndum  
employee. 
We believe in the p
ositive power of images 
to convey ideas and creat e w
ealth and 
posit
ive social and environment al value. As 
a leader in our markets,  our employees are 
exp
erts in photography,  videography, 
engineer ing and technology,  and we aim t o 
share this knowled ge to enab le posit ive 
social and environment al outcomes.
The pand emic aﬀected  our ab
ility to interact 
with our local communit ies during 2021 but 
our t
eams were still able to have an impact 
in certain areas.  We plan to resume our 
communit y activit ies throughout  2022.2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
77Investing in future industry talent
Videndum donates  and lends professional 
photographic,  TV and cinemat ic equipment  to 
ed
ucational institut ions worldwid e to upskill 
f
uture industry talent. 
In Italy, the Media Solutions team collab orated 
with universit ies to share employ ee know-how 
with student s and future indust ry professionals 
via webinars and online lectures.  A mentoring 
partnership  was set up with the universities of 
Venice and Pad
ua, includ ing virtual meetings 
and online lectures
.
Our Product ion Solut ions employees work with 
d
iﬀerent  technical schools in the community, 
onboard ing eight  to ten student s each year to 
complet e their professional pract ice of P recision 
Mechanics.  Some of the schools we work with 
includ e COV
AO, Ciudad  de Los Nios and CTP. 
Once with us, we train the student s in 
specialised  machinery and often oﬀer jobs 
follow ing their training.  We have an ongoing 
apprenticeship  programme for employees  at the 
Prod
uction Solutions  UK site, in various ﬁelds, 
includ ing Engineering,  Business Analysis and 
Human Resources.  The progr amme is f ully 
fund
ed through our apprenticeship  levy fund,  
with 11 employ ees current ly enrolled. 2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
78Media Solutions: Picture of Life  
The Picture of Life project  in Italy is a social and 
environment al educat ion initiativ e aimed  to 
empow er young peop le with p ositive values, 
professional skills and knowled ge on how to 
minimise their impact  on the environment.  The 
collab
oration betw een Videndum, the non-proﬁt 
organisat ion the Jonat han Association,  and the 
Italian Justice Minist ry started  in 2014. 
Videndum support s the project  by donat ing 
photographic equipment  to equip  participants 
with all t
hey need  for the progr amme and 
organis ing the course. 
In 2021,  the course aimed  to show young 
people fr om the Jonathan Associat ion in Naples 
how photography  and videograp hy can be used 
to creat e new opportunities  and overcome 
adversity.
We worked  with student s to:
- Develop their photography and
videography skills
- Help them execut e 
their storytelling and
creative ideas
- Evolve their environment
al
consciousness, sp
eciﬁcally looking at
plastic pollution on the 
coastsMedia Solutions’  ambassad ors w orked  directly 
w
ith young participant s from the Jonat han 
Association to run a plastic-free camp aign in 
Procida,  the I
talian capit al of culture.  The 
programme consisted  of workshops and 
pract ical activit
ies. Media Solutions’  employees 
also joined  the wider  Jonat han Association in a 
beach clean-up  activity in Castel Volturno. 
Since 2014,  60 young peop le have participated 
in Picture of Life, with tw o alumni starting a 
professional career in photography. 
Since its initial launch in I
taly, the initiat ive has 
proved  so successf ul that it has been rep licated 
in New York and Chicago,  US; S
hanghai,  China; 
Johannesburg,  South Africa;  and the UK . This 
year we expanded  the Picture of Life 
programm e further and employees  supported  a 
range of social and environment al activities in 
Australia,  New Z
ealand,  China and Japan. 
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
79Media Solutions: Wild Shots Outreach 
As part of our commitment  to our long-ter m 
ESG strategy,  our Lowepr o and Gitzo brands 
have made great  strides in sustainability  and 
social projects in 2021.  Lowep ro launched 
Photosport,  made from 75% recycled  materials 
and Gitzo launched  the L gend e Trip
od, which 
has a lifetime guarant
ee.
Both product s were launched  on a 
crowdfund ing p
latform to help engage their 
communit y in the brands’  social impact 
initiatives.  Backers each contribut ed $1 to 
Indiegogo,  raising $50,000 for Wild Shots 
Outreach (“WSO”).  In addit ion to the funds 
donated,  Videndum ran a digital mast erclass 
with Gitz o Ambassad or and wildlif e and 
conservat
ionist  photographer Roie Galit z. 
The South Af
rican NGO  empow ers young 
peop le from challenging background s through 
photograp
hy and education,  opening up 
employment  op
portunit ies in environmental 
conservation.  Funds
 raised  have been used  to 
doub le the photograp hy programmes oﬀered  to 
the communit ies bord
ering the Kruger National 
Park and further support  the most  talented 
young photograp hers and videographers.  This 
donat ion enab
led WS
O to hire two full-time 
employees and oﬀer ﬁve bursaries  for young 
peop le to continue their professional education.The funds will support vital 
aspects of our programme 
delivery for disadvantaged 
young people and our 
Bursary Fund
 for the further 
study and training of some of 
our most talented graduates.
Mike Kendrick 
WSO Founder
2021 ESG REPORT OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
80Creative Solutions: Made in Her Image 
This is the most collaborative and 
educational workshop env
ironment I 
have ever attended. Everyone was very 
kind and deliberat
e in their less on 
plans, so learning and picking up 
information was easy
 and clear. Thank 
you so much for this opportunity.”
It was such a warm and open 
environment from t he 
moment I came 
in. I was nervous
, based on my  lack of 
experience in cinematography, but the 
instructors and volunteers made me feel 
extremely s upported. We are Black/
People of colour and non-binary  people 
making strides in the industry , and I am 
so thankful for this organisation and 
experience. Thank you all!”
Student feedb
ack from the Mentorship Lab
The Creat ive S olutions Division worked  with 
“Mad e in Her Image”,  an organisat ion dedicated  
to advancing young women,  girls and non-binary 
youth of colour within ﬁlm, media and 
technology.  
This organisat ion is  important  to us. It fosters  
educat ion within our ind ust ry and encourages  
and celeb
rates representat ion on set by curating 
engaging p
rogrammes to f ost er media literacy 
and empowerment.
In O
ctober,  we d onated  $15,000 to fully sponsor 
a four-w eek virtual cinematograp hy cours e 
called  “Their P oint  of View”  for 40 students in 
Los A ngeles,  p rovid ing f r ee and accessible 
learning op portunities.  A ccomp anying t he 
donation,  our team organised  an in-p erson 
Mentorship  Lab. The Lab gave students and 
local youth a chance to participat e in hands-on 
cinematograp hy lessons taught  by ﬁve LA-
based  female cinemat ographers.  
Giving Tue sday
We have ext ended  our out reach with Made in 
Her Image by participat ing in the global day t o 
celebrat e generosit y, Giving Tuesd ay.  For two 
weeks,  we p romoted  Made in Her Image 
merchandise.  Any of our cust omers  who 
purchased  a sweatshirt  were ent ered  into a 
giveaway to win a S mallHD Cine 24 4K High-
Bright  Monit or  and a W ood en Camera Ultra QR 
Articulat ing Monit or Mount .  All proceeds were 
donated  direct ly to Made in Her I mage to fund 
more free educat ional cours es for young female 
and non-binary ﬁlmm akers of colour. 
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE  & STRATEGY ECONOMIC & INNOVATION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
812021 ESG REPORT
Charity
Donating to charitable causes is a core focus of 
the Group. Our employees give generously with 
their time and money, and in 2021, we estim ate 
that the Group donated approximately £69,000 
(£15,000 in 2020) . 
Employee volun teering
We encour age a cultur e of active participation in 
the comm unities in which we operate. Staﬀ 
worldwide give their time and money to various 
social progr ammes in their local communities.  
Our HR policies allow  employees to take time oﬀ 
from work to support  social progr ammes and 
charities.
Employ ees have volunteered  in local community 
food distribution missions across the US, while 
all employees  at our Israel site participated  in a 
“good  deeds”  day.
Media Solutions worked with Theodor e D. 
Young Community Center,  an after-school 
haven that provides a foundationally safe place 
for disadvantaged  students.  JOBY and 
100cameras partner ed to create a curriculum  
built on storytelling and photography.  
The curriculum provides a course where young 
adults can process  and tell the stories of their 
past,  present  and future with no judgement  or 
expectations.Production Solutions’  employees volunteer in 
local schools and carry out activities such as 
painting walls and helping with maintenance 
tasks.  The Division partnered  with the Oﬀshoot  
Foundation to empower,  enthuse and inspire 
disadvantaged  people in the UK. Our Production 
Solutions’  employees  helped  develop  lif e skills 
and raise aspirations by  running professional ﬁlm 
workshop
s.
In our
 Media Solutions  Division,  37 employ ees 
volunteered  over 392 hour s during the year in a 
range of community initiatives.  We  plan to collect  
and publish volunteering data across the Group  
throughout  2022.
Production Solutions: Videndum 
Recycles
Product
ion Solutions’  “Videndum Recycles”  is a 
community
 initiative where mont hly collection 
centres are set up for recycling materials at the 
Cartago,  Costa Rica p lant. Videndum  
employees,  nearb
y supplier employees and the 
w
ider community can bring comp lex materials to 
be processed  responsibly and recycled.  The 
collection
 mainly receives cardboard  paper, 
plast
ics, aluminium and glass.  Following 
collect
ion day, a company  specialised  in 
recycling these materials  collects the w aste and 
is responsible for disposing of it resp onsibly  and 
at no cost. Videndum plc
Bridge House
Heron Square
Richmond
TW9 1EN
United Kingdom
t +44 (0)20 8332 4600 
info@videndum.com
www.videndum.com
This report has been printed on material which is 
certiﬁed by the Forest Stewardship Council.