SUSTAINABILITY REP ORTIN G 2020Garage with solar cells in the façade
In Mölnlycke Fabriker, the area that is in the process of taking shape 
in a genuine industrial environment just outside of Gothenburg, Wal-lenstam is building a garage with 1,500 solar cell modules in the façade. The semi-transparent solar cell modules that will be used in 
the construction will enable the entry of light, airflow and will create a façade that changes in shades of blue, green, orange and terracotta red. They will produce 
energy for the garage’s lighting, charging stations for electric cars and in addition, they will also generate renewable energy for the  electricity grid. For the future tenants of the more than 600 apart-ments in the area, the garage will become the central car park.
1 GUIDING PRINCIPLE ENVIRONMENTWallenstam’s sustainability work covers more than climate and environmental issues – read about how we work 
with the UN’s global sustainable development goals on page 29.CLIMATE TARGETS 2023
Reduce CO2 emissions from the construction operations by 10 percent per square meter.  Wallen -
stam has worked for a long time on improving the efficiency within its construction operations. The work on 
improving efficiency will now also focus on CO2 emissions. This means, among other things, further work with choice of materials, optimization of materials, recycling of materials and a review of construction transports. 
Reduce CO2 emissions from the properties’ energy consumption by 15 percent per heated square 
meter.  Further optimization work and investments in the properties’ building shell will lead to more efficient 
energy use. The properties will also be supplemented with solar cell units where it is practically possible. Taken together, these initiatives will lead to reduced CO2 emissions.  
Reduce the properties’ residual waste by 10 percent per square meter. To improve the possibility for 
our tenants to sort their waste, environmental rooms will be supplemented with additional sorting units when required. By creating a change in behavior and promoting the willingness to sort, the spread of information about the climate benefit is an important factor in reducing residual waste. Reducing residual waste means that less waste is incinerated with reduced CO2 emissions as a positive effect. 
Carry out business trips using electric car, train or via completely carbon-neutral and biofuel-
based air travel . Wallenstam enables climate-neutral business trips by providing a car pool that consists ex -
clusively of electric cars. For longer trips, train should be chosen in the first instance and in those cases where air travel is necessary, it should be carried out in a completely carbon-neutral way and be biofuel-based.”We shall reduce our environmental impact every year, 
through initiatives within the focus areas energy, 
transports and resources.”GUIDING PRINCIPLE ENVIRONMENT
The property sector has a significant impact on the environment and climate. As a large property owner and construction com-pany, Wallenstam wants to take responsibility for this impact.
Within the energy  focus area, we are a leader today because 
we are self-sufficient in renewable energy from our wind turbines since 2013. We have also worked for many years on improving energy efficiency in our properties. In addition to this, we have also started to install solar cells in our properties. The term resources  is broad and we have currently been concentrating 
on the aspects waste and material use. As a first step in the work in the transports  area, the focus has been on the trips that the 
company’s employees make. 
In 2020, Wallenstam took a decision on four climate targets 
that aim to reduce the company’s CO2 emissions. The goals will apply until 2023, when the present business plan expires.GUIDING PRINCIPLE EMPL OYEE 2 Knowledgeable and dedicated employees are one of our success factors as a company 
and the most important resource for our operations. Dedicated employees ensure 
more satisfied tenants and more efficient operations.
Familial corporate culture
An enterprising attitude, stability, purposefulness, security, 
togetherness and equality are some of the qualities that our corporate culture is based on and that are connected to our core values – respect, commitment and progress. Wallenstam’s va-lues do not just reside in the walls of the company, but are crea-ted by all the employees together. Therefore it is important to continue the work together on strengthening our value platform and the familial corporate culture that we have at Wallenstam. It is particularly important to ensure this during new recruitments. Measurements of Engagement Index score
The Engagement Index shows how engaged the employees are, and to what extent the employees feel satisfied, take responsibi-lity for and feel involved in the company’s mission – our goal, our business concept and our vision. During the year, we completed the work on deciding how the follow-up should be made and how the measurements should be carried out. The first survey, where we asked the question “Would you recommend Wallenstam as an employer to a friend or acquaintance?” showed an Engage-ment Index score of 65. We want to improve our Engagement Index score every year, and this result provides a starting point for the coming years.
Many want to work at Wallenstam
How we are perceived as a company by potential, current and previous employees is important for attracting and retaining dedicated employees. During 2020, we mainly focused on developing and optimizing the processes relating to attracting and recruiting em-ployees, among other ways, by quality-assuring the interview process and candidate experience. Early in the year, many recruitments were paused due to Covid-19. After the summer, recruitments resumed and about 20 positions were filled during the fall. The interest in working at Wallenstam is strong, which is reflected in a large number of qualified applications for the advertised positions. 
Attract Recruit Develop Introduce Terminate”Through our strong corporate culture, 
we shall be an attractive employer and improve 
our Engagement Index score every year.”
During the pandemic, the engagement has been demonstrated 
extra clearly – engagement for our customers, for each other and for the company. The employees have really had the ability to adapt rapidly to the changed conditions and to take on  duties outside of their regular roles.
Read more about Wallenstam’s organization and how we work with personnel-related issues on page 42.
GUIDING PRINCIPLE EMPLOYEE
65
ENGAGEMENT INDEX SCORE
A value over zero shows that there are more ambassadors than detractors and  a value between 20 and 30 is considered to be very good. Of the 199 people  who responded to the survey, 71 percent were classified as ambassadors for  the company.Our customers are at the center of our business and it is important for us to be able to offer the right product 
and service to our residential and commercial tenants. Satisfied customers that are happy are loyal and rent 
longer with us, which among other things, contributes to lower relocations, less wear and tear and increased 
security. A satisfied customer is also a good ambassador for us as a company.”We shall exceed customer expectations and improve the overall 
impression of Wallenstam every year through attractive apartments 
and premises as well as good service.”
3 GUIDING PRINCIPLE CUSTOMER
During 2020, we carried out digital training 
on how we respond to our customers through calls and personal meetings. All employees and Wallenstam Partners who have a lot of customer contact in their work, will have the opportunity to advance their knowledge and skills regarding the right response, communi-cation and tonality.Close contact with our customers
Through telephone calls, e-mails and personal contacts, we meet our customers 
every day, including through our customer service that receives reports of defects 
and viewpoints. This year, our customer contacts have largely been dominated by the Covid-19 pandemic, for example many meetings, occupation-related meetings and events were cancelled or were conducted digitally. We have also changed over to digital apartment 
viewings and signing of contracts. 
It has been important for us to be extra available for our customers, and we have 
expanded through the possibility of contacting our customer service via a chat func -
tion. In addition, all our residential tenants have now gained access to our Wallenstam App where, among other things, they can communicate with us and with their neigh -
bors. On the commercial side, account managers have had extra focus on the rela-tionship with the customers operating in exposed sectors, in order to find solutions during the tough time that many are going through.
Good ratings from our customers
We conduct regular CSI (Customer Satisfaction Index) surveys where we ask our customers what they think about our service, our product and our image. The outcome, which is summarized in a service index, showed that we obtained very high ratings in a number of areas. The availability and response from our customer service is top class, our capable partners obtained high ratings in relation to property maintenance in our properties and customers are satisfied with their apartments and their premises, for exam -
ple with regard to the design and standard.
Based on the results from our surveys, we have identified 
areas for improvement that we continued to work on during the year. The action plans relate for example to operation, such as ventilation and indoor climate, as well as cleaning and main-tenance in our properties, but also targeted projects that aim to make it easier for customers to act in an environmentally-friendly way. This can, for example, involve sorting at source or recharging possibilities for electric bikes. We are working to simplify and improve the information to our tenants so that it should be uniform and easy to understand. We are also looking specifically at the process around handling cases of reports of defects, so that our customers can obtain even quicker help with their cases. This work occurs on a company-wide basis and is led by a process manager with the entire customer journey in focus, from letting and occupation, information and contact with us as a landlord to termination and relocation. 
During 2020, we conducted targeted surveys among the ten -
ants who moved into our new production. The overall outcome from these surveys, shows that the new tenants are particularly satisfied with the design and equipment in their kitchen and bath -
room and also with the information and response from Wallen -
stam. Improvements are requested mainly regarding the design of the outdoor environment. We take this experience on board in or -
der to be able to improve the customer experience going forward.GUIDING PRINCIPLE CUSTOMER
In our latest major survey of our entire holdings, we obtained a service 
index rating of almost 80 percent among our residential tenants and just over 82 percent among our commercial tenants. The service index is a weighting of the tenants’ ratings with regard to security, response and service. During 2021, we will again conduct a survey in the entire holdings. 79.9%
SERVICE INDEX 
RESIDENTIAL 82.4%
SERVICE INDEX  
COMMERCIAL PREMISES The year we have now left behind us was a very 
unusual one. 2020 began in the same fantas -
tic way as most years, with new opportuni -
ties, a lot of energy and a strong belief in the future. Quite soon, many of us realized that 
2020 would be anything but normal, and in March when Covid-19 was classified as a pandemic, life and conditions changed for us, the business community and for society in a dramatic, almost surreal way. 
An unusual time
I have had the privilege of being the CEO of Wallenstam for 30 years, and have experienced different economic cyc-les during this period. The current crisis differs somewhat Comments by the CEO
from both the property crisis in the 1990s and the financial crisis in 2008-2009, primarily because the pandemic is claiming lives and many people are being affected by it in a hard and unforgiving way. This crisis has also meant that we have changed our way of living in a short time, which has also had consequences in many other respects. Some businesses have been very severely affected and are fighting for their survival. However, there are also sectors and busi -
nesses that have benefited, which are growing and thriving due to the new needs arising from our changing lifestyles.
Successful business model even in a crisis
For Wallenstam, I can once again confirm that we have a business model that I feel very confident about, where we 
Hans Wallenstam,
CEO Wallenstam.
30 years
AS CEO OF
WALLENSTAM
COMMENTS BY THE CEO 4 Despite the pandemic and its effects, we have managed to achieve 
higher income from property management than the previous year. This, I want to suggest, is a result of all the work that my fantastic  co-workers have put in.
as a company create value even in such uncertain times. 
During the year, we continued to provide apartments and 
let commercial floor space, primarily offices, and both of 
these markets have been stable despite the turbulence in 
society. However, businesses that depend on visitors such 
as restaurants and shops have faced a very tough time. 
We have done what we could to help them maintain their 
businesses for when society opens up again. We have given 
many of our tenants discounts both within the frame -
work of the government rent support, and also helped, 
for example by purchasing a total of 15,000 lunches from 
our restaurant tenants, which we delivered to the needy in 
society.
Wallenstam du ring t he pandemic
Apart from the fact that we made efforts with purchases 
and discounts to support our customers, the pandemic 
has of course also affected our  business and our working 
methods in different ways. When it comes to residential 
lettings, we have changed and developed  our routines, for 
instance with digital viewings an d signing of contracts, 
which has functioned very well. On  the commercial side, 
there  have also been many challenges arising from the 
pandemic. The properties’ attractive locations, great 
know-how and engagement have led to several new com -
mercial lets also during 2020. We are also sensitive to 
changing needs and have a thorough program where we 
reconstruct some second floors containing retail space, 
into offices for example, and stores with less favorable 
trading locations can be converted into, e.g. housing or 
other a ctivities. 
Our ongoing production has worked well, in fact above 
expectations, without significant delays or delivery prob -
lems. However, the municipalities’ permit processes such 
as consultation and building permits have been greatly 
impacted by the pandemic. For us, this has meant that 
project starts have been delayed. No projects have been 
cancelled, but they have been brought forward. I hope that 
next year we will return to the normal number of construc -
tion starts as planned during the business plan. Today we 
have more than 130,000 people in our own housing queue, 
which is a fantastic basis for continuing on our chosen path 
of developing projects and building new qualitative homes 
in a cost-efficient way.
Now practically all employees at Wallenstam are work -
ing from home, something that I must admit I was a bit 
hesitant about before the pandemic. What I have seen 
during this year is that our processes are functioning, and 
everyone is working, cooperating and delivering more or a 
bit more depending on their different circumstances. How -
ever, I can state that the office as a social meeting place has 
probably become even more important now, than before 
5 COMMENTS BY THE CEOthe pandemic – and this is something we are also noticing 
among our commercial tenants. 
Income from property management and net asset value 
are increasing
Despite the pandemic and its effects, we have managed to 
achieve higher income from property management than the previous year. This, I want to suggest, is a result of all the work that my fantastic co-workers have put in, where everyone with great commitment contributed and really battled during these very special circumstances.
We also advanced a bit further on our journey towards 
the goal of achieving an increase in net asset value of SEK 40 per share through 2023. So far in our five-year business plan, we have generated just over SEK 19, and I am very satisfied with this!
Value growth from new construction is increasing 
Our business concept involving investments in new construction is generating positive changes in value on an ever-greater scale. In 2020, two thirds of the total change in value came from new production. It is primarily changes in net operating income that have generated the increase in value in the existing holdings. 
We have also had the opportunity to further strengthen 
our project portfolio for future new production, and dur -
ing 2020 we purchased land for future new production with construction starts planned both in the near future and with a longer planning horizon. The project portfolio now includes around 17,000 future possible apartments and in total we have around SEK 7 billion in ongoing and future projects and land, which do not generate any cash flow today, but will do so in the future. Overall, we expect to invest about SEK 15 billion in construction of new apartments during the business plan.
We have a stable foundation with an equity/assets ratio 
of 42 percent and a loan-to-value ratio of 46 percent. During the year and especially during the first six months, there was some turbulence in the financial market, which meant that our financing costs increased temporarily dur -
ing this period. We have chosen to refrain from rating the company and mainly prefer bank financing, which feels particularly reassuring in times like these. 
Record electricity production from our wind turbines 
Sustainability work is important for Wallenstam, and we want to contribute to a better society in different ways. The fact that we create new apartments every year is perhaps our biggest sustainability initiative as a company. But we are also focusing on the climate issue, among other ways, through the four climate targets in the current business plan 2023, that we launched during the year.COMMENTS BY THE CEO 6 Hans Wallenstam, CEO"During 2020, we carried out a change 
of our logo, which was launched in connection with our 75
th anniversary in 
November 2019. A very nice surprise was that our new logo and visual identity won the Swedish Design Award recently in January!"
»W allenstam shall reduce CO2  emissions from its con-
struction operations by 10  percent per square meter.
»W
allenstam shall reduce CO2  emissions from the
properties’ energy consumption by 15 percent per
heated square meter.
»W
allenstam shall reduce the properties’ residual waste
by 10 percent per square meter.
»W
allenstam’s business trips shall be carried out using
electric car, train or completely carbon-neutral andbiofuel-based air travel.
In addition, we have decided that all our bonds shall be green bonds. 
Since 2013 we have also been self-sufficient in renewable 
energy through wind power and we have now set a new record in our own electricity production. Our 66 wind turbines produced a total of 417 GWh during 2020! This is equivalent to the annual consumption of just over 20,000 houses or about 170,000 apartments.
Wallenstam has already signed the UN’s Global Com -
pact, which means that we support and work on the basis of the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the precautionary approach, anti-corruption and taking of responsibility in relation to environmental issues. 
Gold in the Swedish Design Award
During 2020, we carried out a change of our logo, which was launched in connection with our 75
th anniversary 
in November 2019. Stationery, envelopes and printed material have been redone, new signs have been put up on façades and in entrances. A very nice surprise was that our new logo and visual identity won the Swedish Design Award recently in January! Of course, it feels really great that our logo featuring 
the ant, which has now gained a modern look, is being recognized in this way! The ant as a symbol has been a natural part of the brand since the 1950s and symbolizes cooperation, endurance, strength and the art of building apartment blocks in carefully selected locations – qualities that are highly valued at Wallenstam.
Looking ahead to continued successful development
A big thank you to all employees, the Board, tenants, sup -
pliers and shareholders who have accompanied us all the way here! Now we are looking ahead, and can detect light at the end of the tunnel. Hopefully, society and all of us can soon return to a more normal life, where we can once again meet colleagues, relatives and friends, shop, travel, socialize and eat in restaurants.
I see a fantastic future for Wallenstam. Our business 
concept has been shown to work well during the pandemic, and works even better in more normal times. We have a strong base, and we will continue to refine our offices, de -
velop our ground floors and build even more apartments. Our results during 2020 have made it even clearer that our business model and strategy for the future are totally right for a continued successful development of the company.Wallenstam wants to contribute to a better society, today and for future generations. This is our 
driving force and what makes us proud of our business. For us, sustainability is about pursuing responsible enterprise. By creating solutions that contribute to a long-term positive develop -
ment, we take responsibility for the impact we have on society, the climate and the environment. As part of this work, Wallenstam supports the UN’s Global Compact initiative and this section constitutes our Communication on Progress (COP report).
RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE 7  W hen Agenda 2030 was adopted, the world’s 
countries came together to limit global warming to well under 2 degrees. Research shows that global warming continues to increase, with both short-term and long-
term climate change as a result. Agenda 2030 contains ambitious goals in relation to equality, poverty, peace and justice. Wallenstam is continuing to focus on our five prioritized goals in Agenda 2030, all aimed at promoting a sustainable development. 
We believe that integrated sustainability work and strong 
social engagement go hand in hand with long-term profita -
bility, and for this reason, sustainability is a core part of our business. This delivers good control, minimizes business-related and operational risks, improves efficiency, generates new solutions and business and ensures more engaged em -
ployees, more secure investors and more satisfied customers. 
For us, sustainable enterprise is also about continuous 
improvements, development of our operations and about refining and streamlining processes. 
As an additional part of our climate work, Manage -
ment adopted four climate targets during the year, which apply until the end of the business plan in 2023. The aim of the targets is to reduce the carbon footprint from our construction operations and from the properties’ energy consumption and residual waste. In addition, all busi -
ness trips shall be carried out in a climate-neutral way. The goals have been formulated in the company's climate group, which is led by the Sustainability Manager and is composed of representatives from the construction and management operations. The climate group’s mission is now also to prepare action plans for each target.
Organization, governance and reporting
During 2020, the work continued on developing and driv -
ing Wallenstam’s sustainability work in accordance with the company’s sustainability policy, with Karin Mizgalski as Sustainability Manager. The CEO is ultimately responsi -
ble for the work with the material topics and risks that are prioritized in Wallenstam’s sustainability work. The practi -
cal and day-to-day sustainability work is conducted in all parts of the operations and all employees have a responsibil -
ity to implement and drive the sustainability efforts in their respective departments. Outcomes are followed up and regularly reported to Group Management and the Board. 
Wallenstam has reported its sustainability work since 
2006 and reports according to Global Reporting Initia -
tive (GRI) since 2010. We also reported our emissions of Responsible enterprise
Green façade on Södra Larmgatan 
in central Gothenburg.8 RESPONSIBLE ENTERP RISEVery important   | I MPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS  |  Critical
Very important   | W ALLENSTAM'S IMPACT  |  CriticalMATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY AREAS BASED ON STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUEWallenstam’s climate targets 2023
C
HD
EB
A
I K
J
GFS table financial position  
a
nd anti-corruption
A
 F
inancial position  
i
n balance
B 
Anti-corruption
Soc
ial conditions and  
 
employees
C
 G
ood working  
 
conditions
D
 S
afe and secure  
w
orking 
 
 
environment  
E
 I
nclusive corporate 
 
 
culture 
F
 E
quality and diversityC ostumer
G C
ustomer satisfaction
En
vironment
H G
reenhouse gases
 I
 E
nergy efficiancy 
J
 W
aste management
K S
ustainable building  
 
materialsReduce CO2 emissions from 
the construction operations by 
10 percent per square meter.Reduce CO2 emissions from 
the properties’ energy con-
sumption by 15 percent per 
heated square meter.Reduce the properties’  
residual waste by 10 percent 
per square meter.Carry out business trips  
using electric car, train or via 
completely carbon-neutral and 
biofuel-based air travel.
greenhouse gases and other climate-related data during the 
year to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). 
Stakeholder dialogue
During fall 2018, we conducted a stakeholder analysis, which continues to form the basis for the work with the business plan 2019–2023. Through our stakeholder dia-logues, we obtain a relevant view about external require -
ments and wishes.
Code of Conduct and Ethics Council
In the construction and property sector, there are risks, for example related to the working environment, corruption, human rights, climate and the environment. Our Code of Conduct, which is built on our core values, serves as a central guide for us. The Code of Conduct, and a number of guidelines connected to it, set out Wallenstam’s ap -
proach and clarify how we want to act as a company. The goal is to have an environmental, social and commercial commitment in everything we do. We comply with laws and regulations, and apply responsible business methods, which are characterized by high business ethics and good business practice. We impose requirements on contractors that enter into cooperation agreements with us that they follow the content of the Code of Conduct and act accord -
ing to it. Violations of the Code of Conduct, internally or by partners, can damage Wallenstam’s operations and brand. Only green bonds
During the year, Management decided that 
all bonds that Wallenstam issues going forward shall be green bonds. At present, all 66 of Wallenstam’s wind turbines and some of our environmentally-certified pro-perties are financed through green bonds.HUMAN RIGHTS 
Having a home is a fundamental need and constitutes an important part of a functioning society. There is currently a severe housing shortage, which also means that many people are finding it hard to get their own home. We want to contribute to a good 
standard of living for many people by developing safe, secure and lively city districts where we build and manage housing, primarily in the form of rental apartments. We currently have about 350 social contracts with municipalities and organizations, where we make housing available for people who find it difficult toobtain a regular contract. For example, this can relate to transitional accommodation. Several of the  
contracts change over to regular leases when it is possible for the tenant. 
Our operations are conducted in Sweden and we follow applicable rules for example relating to working 
conditions, the working environment and freedom of association. Wallenstam supports the UN Declaration of Human Rights and we see that we can contribute positively in many areas, including by fighting discrimination, treating everyone with respect  
– employees and customers as well as others we meet – and offering equal opportunities to employees.350
social contracts
RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE 9 The Code of Conduct, which is available in its entirety 
on www.wallenstam.se, is revised annually and adopted by 
the Board. 
Training and information about the Code of Conduct 
and specific guidelines, for example on anti-corruption and information security are mandatory for all employees including the Group Management and Board. Training occurs regularly, as part of the introductory program for new employees, among other ways and as digital training for all employees. 
Wallenstam’s Ethics Council, with representatives from 
the entire business, holds about four meetings annually. The Ethics Council is the body that works centrally in the Group on continually advancing the Group’s anti-corrup -tion work, and it conducts risk analyses in the area and proposes possible measures. The Ethics Council receives regular questions of an informational character that the Council answers. Most questions relate to what employees can give or receive, in other words, questions connected to business ethics and corruption. We provide information to all employees based on commonly asked questions. No cases arose during the year where further investigation was required. Wallenstam has a whistleblower function, which can be used internally and externally and is accessible via a link from Wallenstam’s website. A few cases were reported during 2020. However, these were not classified as whistle -
blower cases but were other types of viewpoints, which have been handled and answered.Gender equality
Affordable and clean energyDecent work and economic growthAgenda 2030
Wallenstam has prioritized five global sustainable 
development goals (SDGs) in the UN’s Agenda 
2030. Within these goals, we are working in various 
ways with a number of different sub-areas in order 
to help reach the goals. Having a home is a funda-
mental need and constitutes an important part of 
a functioning society. There is currently a severe 
housing shortage.
Gender equality and diversity
For us gender equality and diversity are important. Em -
ployers should work together with employees to achieve 
gender equality and diversity. Gender equality and diver -
sity issues must be integrated throughout the organization and its working methods. During recruitments and in our internal processes, for example in relation to development initiatives and setting of salaries, we work to ensure that men and women have the same conditions and we shall work together to ensure a progressive organization where discrimination on all grounds is prevented. Nevertheless, we need to maintain an ongoing dialogue about what gen -
der equality, respect and diversity means in our company. Our Code of Conduct is clear that discrimination must not occur. Read more on page 43.
Renewable ener gy
We are self-sufficient in renewable energy through our own 
wind turbines. Our largest carbon footprint from heating 
of properties comes from district heating. To the extent 
that the heating is based on waste heat or is produced with 
renewable raw materials, district heating can be a good 
environmental alternative. We aim where it is possible to 
be able to replace district heating with our own internally-
produced wind power in more and more of our properties. 
10 RESPONSIBLE ENTERP RISEWe also investigate and evaluate other technical solu -
tions for sustainable energy production, such as solar 
energy and energy storage. During the year, the instal -
lation of solar cells on roofs continued and construction also started of a carpark whose façade will be clad in solar panels. 
Our wind turbines are still financed by green bonds. 
These were issued during 2019 within our green frame -
work, which obtained the highest rating Dark Green.
Long-term sustainable financial position 
Long-term profitability is one of the basic requirements for us as a company and our owners want to see a return on the capital they have invested in the business. Through effi -
cient organization, climate- and cost-efficiency in the entire operations and focus on locations with growth and strong demand, we can ensure long-term economic stability. This also means that we should be profitable – profits that we can reinvest in the business. 
Wallenstam is flexible in a volatile housing market in 
a way that provides assurance for our stakeholders. We mainly build rental apartments for our own management, and provide badly needed housing. Through profitable property development, we create value for our customers, society in general and also for the company’s employees and owners. Long-term plans and investments over time also create secure jobs in production and management. Read more about how we work with our customers and employees in focus, on page 6, and page 7, respectively.
66
WIND TURBINES
from Jämtland in the north to Skåne in the south. We have 
been self-sufficient in renewable energy since 2013.RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRIS E 11 Sustainable cities and communitiesWallenstam’s supply chain 
In our business, we utilize the services of more than 3,000 
suppliers. Our Wallenstam Partners perform property upkeep and maintenance, and we use building contractors in our new construction operations who in turn often use subcontractors. In addition, we buy goods and services, use the services of consultants and borrow capital through banks and other financial institutions. Our suppliers are usually domiciled in Sweden, but for instance, sourcing of construction material etc. also occurs in other European countries and in the rest of the world. 
We aim for close and long-term collaboration, which 
means that we can develop together with our partners. As a client, we have both a responsibility and an opportu -
nity to demand good operational standards in the entire production chain. During procurement of contractors and purchasing of services, the responsibilities of our partners are stipulated in agreements and codes of conduct in rela -
tion to business ethics, climate, the environment, working conditions, safety etc.
Urban development of safe areas 
We aim to create safe and welcoming areas and proper -
ties, that people want to live in, work in and visit. Both the physical environment and relationships with neighbors and visitors in the area, influence tenants’ perceptions of security. In the work to increase security, we are making a number of efforts in the day-to-day management as well as selective measures. One example is our collaboration with Huskurage, an organization which works proactively through neighborhood cooperation to prevent violence in close relationships. 
Within the scope of our urban development projects, we 
want to create the conditions for safe communities already during the projecting and zoning plan work. We can achieve this by planning premises in certain areas for vari -
ous types of activities, such as offices, stores, geriatric and child care etc. We are developing our existing properties and carrying out activities in collaboration with our com -
mercial tenants, the city and other organizations in society, with the aim of creating a vibrant inner city.
We actively participate in research and development 
within urban development, construction and manage -
ment. We support and cooperate with for example KTH, Johanneberg Science Park and Mälardalen University. Development efforts can relate to all from new technology in management operations to modern mobility solutions in new city districts. Supported by Wallenstam’s Innova -
Our renewable energy investments 
were initiated to increase control over our electricity expenses and our climate impact. We are self-sufficient in renew-able energy through our own production since 2013, which covers our own and our tenants’ consumption. Our 66 wind turbines are found from Jämtland in the north to Skåne in the south, and have an installed total output of 143 MW. Our high ambitions to be self-sufficient during all months mean that we shall meet our energy needs in the Group even during July when wind power production in Sweden is at its lowest. The wind turbi -nes shall provide Wallenstam’s proper -
ties with renewable energy and thereby make the management operations less sensitive to changes in the electricity price. 
Operation and production
In total, we produced 417 GWh (367) during the year. We work actively on boosting our turbine uptime, in other words, minimizing the time that turbi-nes do not generate electricity due to disruptions or planned stoppages – for example by carrying out maintenance work at times when there is no wind. During 2020, the uptime amounted to 98 percent. Production is also continually optimized by various types of capacity increasing modifications and upgrades, including new software to improve pro-duction efficiency.
Electricity trading and prices
We still sell the electricity we produce to the Nordic electricity market and Wallen-stam only purchases internally produced wind power for the Group’s total electrici-ty use. We follow the development of the electricity price, handle hedging and sales of renewable energy certificates. 
GLOBAL COMPACT 
Wallenstam has signed the UN’s Global Compact, which means that we support and work on the basis of ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the precautionary approach, anti-corruption and taking of responsibility in relation to environmental issues.Self-sufficiency in renewable energyFastighetsel Våra tjänsteresor Transporter till 
och från våra byggarbetsplatserMaterial och byggprocessenHyresgästernas elabonnemang och avfallEgna värme-pannor
Utsläpp av köldmedia Fjärrvärme och fjärrkylaSCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3
Fossil förbränning från egna 
fastigheter, anläggningar och fordon.Köpt energi till våra fastigheter.Självförsörjande på förnybar energi
Our business trips Transports to and 
from our construc-tion sitesMaterial and the construction processScope 3
Emissions from:
» P
urchased goods and services
»P
roperty management and construction
» T
enants’ energy consumption and waste
Own and 
leased vehiclesOwn boilers Emissions of refrig-erantsScope 1
Fossil-fuel combustion from 
own properties, facilities and vehicles.
Tenants’ electrical 
subscriptions and wasteProperty electricity District heating and district coolingScope 2
Purchased energy for our 
properties.
The operations’ emissions are categorized as above. Where do the Wallenstam Group’s emissions arise?
tion Council, Daniel Svartling, the company’s Innovation 
Manager, is working on creating new sustainable business opportunities. Results from our different projects become solutions in the housing of the future and town planning. 
Social eng agement f or reduced e xclusion
Wallenstam is passionate about fighting exclusion and 
about creating city districts where everyone can feel safe 
and a sense of belonging. We believe that supporting youth 
activities in the local communities where we operate is a 
recipe for success. For this reason, we participate in many 
local projects, which focus on helping young people to 
have active leisure time. Examples of our initiatives include 
letting premises for associations, creating meeting places 
and supporting activities for young people and particularly 
vulnerable groups. The aim to reduce exclusion is also the 
background for our collaboration with organizations such 
as Project Playground, Barnens Ö, Stiftelsen Läxhjälpen, 
Mitt Liv, Stockholm City Mission, the Refugee Mission in 
Gothenburg and many sports associations. 
Cooperation and support mainly occur through spon -
sorship and participation in different sustainability-related 
initiatives. 
Transports f or tenants a nd em ployees
We are looking at various mobility solutions in order to 
offer our tenants practical and environmentally-friendly 
transport solutions. Composite mobility solutions involv -
ing bicycles, cars and other types of transports are still 
under development in some of our urban development 
projects, for example in Kallebäcks Terrasser in Gothen -
burg. Today we are installing recharging possibilities for 
electric vehicles in our new construction projects. Trans-
12 RESPONSIBLE ENTERP RISEports will continue to be a focus area during the business 
plan 2019–2023 through the establishment of our climate targets.
Internally, we encourage the use of public transport to 
and from the workplace with the possibility of buying an annual travel card through a net salary deduction. How -
ever, due to the pandemic during the year, we encouraged our employees to avoid public transport as far as possible. Electric bicycles are available for shorter trips and we have a carpool with electric cars, which reduces the need for em -
ployees to take their own car to work. The use of electric pool cars generates much less carbon emissions.
Resources in focus 
How we use our resources is becoming increasingly critical, which is also evident in our internal work and in dialogues with stakeholders. For this reason, in our current business plan, we have defined it as a focus area in our sustainability work for the coming years. Resources consist of several elements, such as waste management, recycling, building materials etc.
The possibility of sorting at source is offered in our 
properties, both for residential tenants and for commercial tenants. Needs vary with the tenants’ businesses and the possibilities also vary depending on the design and loca -
tion of the properties. Within this area, there are improve -
ments to be made, both to make it easier for tenants and to reduce our carbon footprint. During the year, a bench -
mark measurement was carried out in order to be able to follow up our climate target for residual waste. There is also great potential to reduce the carbon footprint from our new construction operations, when it comes to sorting at source, recycling and materials.RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRIS E 13 Climate action
Lunches for the Rescue Mission
The company’s founder Lennart Wallenstam was involved 
in supporting the Rescue Mission already from the start back in 1952. We still support the organization today  through contributions and participation in various pro-jects. In 2020, we provided extra support in the form of lunches from our restaurant tenants and through, for example, face masks and gift vouchers to families.Drive the development for reduced climate and  environmental impact 
We place great importance on limiting climate and envi -
ronmental impacts in our production, operation and man -
agement of properties. During 2020, the last oil heating 
in our property holdings was discontinued based on our strategy of completely avoiding fossil-fuel based heating. In addition, we have converted our gas-heated properties from natural gas to fossil-free biogas. The property sector in Sweden uses a lot of energy and accounts for a large pro -
portion of the overall carbon footprint in society, which means that it is a prioritized area for Wallenstam from a climatic and economic perspective. It is this carbon foot -
print that we are working to reduce through our climate target relating to construction. 
Environmental legislation impacts many parts of our 
business and includes health protection, waste manage -
ment and potential disruptions from properties such as noise, smoke and odors. There are also rules for maxi -
mum energy usage for our properties and soil remediation measures based on soil investigations prior to construction starts. 
The standard of our work is not always based on leg -
islation or external requirements but we create solutions ourselves, not least by becoming the first property com -
pany in Sweden to be self-sufficient in renewable energy in 2013. In the operation of properties we optimize and operate metering in order to reduce consumption of energy and resources and to create a good financial position with continuous improvements. Individual electricity and water metering has been standard in our new construction since 2006. Such an installation usually contributes to a reduc -
tion in consumption by tenants of 10–25 percent following a running-in period. 
Wallenstam is also driving developments for a lower 
climate and environmental impact through different col -
laborations and initiatives. For example, we support the government initiative “Roadmap for fossil-free competi -
tiveness – the Heating industry”, and we collaborate with Mälardalen University, which conducts research and innovation for energy-efficient construction and housing. There are several programs and certification systems for buildings’ climate and environmental impact in the mar -
ket, such as Green Building and Miljöbyggnad (“Sweden Environmental Building”). Four of our residential proper -
ties in the environmentally-designed Kvillebäcken district in Gothenburg, and a residential property in Mölndal are currently certified according to Miljöbyggnad Silver rating.
Textile collection reduces 
the amount of waste
During the year, together with Human Bridge we placed col-
lection containers for clothes and textiles at several of our properties. In just six months, 16 tons of clothes and textiles were collected. The clothes go directly to aid initiatives, or generate income for various aid projects. The collection of clothes and textiles also reduces the amount of waste from the properties.Description of risk 
»O
ccupational accidents.
» U
npredictable events that result in increased
costs, such as environmental factors, for
example substances in soil or leakage thatrequires decontamination or areas of naturalvalue that need to be protected.
Description of opportunity
» S
afe working environment without personal
injuries.
» G
ood financial position and environmental
performance.
»V
alue growth through new construction
projects.
Wallenstam’s management
» W
orking environment plan is prepared early
on and followed up during the entire project.Building work environment coordinators areappointed to ensure occupational safety inthe planning stage. In contractor agreements,coordinators are appointed with equivalentresponsibility during the construction phase.Sufficiently long time plans to avoid stress andmistakes.
» A
nalysis of environmental risks during
acquisition of land, soil investigations duringnew construction and continual investigationsof environmental risks.
» E
fficient organization of projecting, planning,
procurement, construction and choice ofcontractor.Covid-19 has had a significant impact 
on our business during the year, and through our risk management we have been able to handle the challenges posed by the pandemic. The effects of the RISK AREAS OPERATIONS
Risk management 
and opportunities
pandemic are reflected, among other things,  in the 
risks we describe relating to financing, interest rates, 
supply and demand and the economic situation.
Minimizing risks and optimizing opportunities 
is an integrated part of our business. Wallenstam’s 
employees participate in both the risk inventory and 
the preventative work. The risks are assessed based 
on harmfulness and probability, and are prioritized 
by Management an d the Board.  The work  aims to 
develop strategies and measures to reduce the risks 
and optimize opportunities. This is ongoing work, 
which is continually developed and the company’s 
compliance function is responsible for the follow-up.
All events cannot be foreseen. For this reason, 
part of our risk work is to be prepared for crisis 
management. We conduct regular drills of our crisis  
management organization based  on special guide -
lines and crisis checklists.  This helps to minimize 
losses to the operations and our stakeholders.
14 RISK MANAGEMENT AND  OPPORTUNITIESProduction and management of properties
Opportunities and 
risks connected to the operations refer to matters that are related to our core business.
Description of risk
»C
ompetition for contractors.
»Th
at procurements are not conducted/
agreements not correctly entered into, which
can cause uncertainty about responsibilityand increased costs.
» T
hat partners do not follow entered into
agreements or our Code of Conduct.Description of risk
» L
ess confidence or attractiveness among
existing and potential employees.
» N
ot to be able to recruit and retain employees
with the right competencies and commitment.
» T
hat employees do not live and act according
to the company’s values.
Description of opportunity
» G
ood collaboration, long-term planning, good
financial position and high quality.
» T
hat we have secure and efficient processes
for purchasing and signing of contracts,providing secure collaboration.
» G
ood business ethics and satisfactory
working conditions among contractors andsubcontractors.Description of opportunity
» T
o be perceived as an attractive employer.
Possibility of recruiting employees with theright profile and competencies.
»D
evelopment of employees and the company.
» T
o develop employees, the operations and the
brand based on strong common values.
Wallenstam’s management
» D
evelop long-term relationships and well-
established collaboration with contractors andsuppliers.
» W
e have developed processes and templates
for procurement and purchasing, we bring inthe right competencies to the process and atleast two people always review tenders andagreements before they are signed.
» I
nformation to and dialogue with contractors
about required compliance with Wallenstam’sCode of Conduct.
»Pr
oject managers are highly knowledgeable
and very closely involved with their projects.Routines for follow-up of agreements and on-site checks.
» R
outines for logbooks and ID checks etc. at
workplaces. Spot checks at partners are per-formed regularly.
» T
raining and development of routines
regarding supplier checks.RISK AREAS OPERATIONS
Partners
RISK MANAGEMENT AND O PPORTUNITIES 15 Employees
Wallenstam’s management
 »T
he guiding principle focused on employees is 
important for quality and satisfied customers. Offer a good working environment, attractive and market-related working conditions, healthand wellness training, skills development and internal recruitment for new positions. 
 »Th
e synthetic options scheme for employees,
which offers clear participation in the company’s development.
 »R
ecruitment is prioritized as a strategic area. 
The processes are being strengthened and HR competencies shall always be engaged during recruitments.
 »R
egular employee surveys are a tool for 
improvements, connected to the guiding principle of an annual improvement in the Enga-gement Index score, which is followed up during the business plan.
 »I
ntroduction program with conference about
the company’s history, values, policies andguidelines etc.
 »M
anagers are supported in dialogues about the
values in the form of checklists, templates for development discussions etc.Wallenstam’s management
» C
lear processes and temp-
lates for procurements,
purchasing and letting.Routines where two personsshall jointly review andauthorize lettings andpurchasing and also checktenders and agreementsprior to signing. Spot checksfor checking agreements.Focus on checking existingcontracts, for exampleunlawful subletting.
» A
n Ethics Council tasked
with driving and monitoringthe anti-corruption work atWallenstam. Internalinformation and supportthrough the Ethics Council.
»A
ccessible whistleblower
function.
» I
nternal transparency about
side-line jobs and assign-ments that may affectinterests.Description of risk
»W
eak liquidity impedes
investments and the abilityto meet payment obligations.Financing Anti-corruption
Description of risk
» R
isk for corruption linked to
allocation of apartments/premises.
» R
isk for corruption during
procurements andpurchasing.
Description of opportunity
» G
ood control of business
operations, credibility forbusiness partners and otherstakeholders and assurancefor employees with clarityregarding rules and routines.
Wallenstam’s management
» P
roximity to the market and
the banks. Good relation-ships with several lendersprovides good financingpossibilities.
» F
inancing is always secured
before new constructionstarts, which eliminates therisk of low liquidity.
» F
ocus on strong liquidity and
high equity/assets ratio.
»L
iquidity forecasts are
updated continuously withthe objective of optimizingcash management.Description of opportunity
»S
trong liquidity provides the
freedom of action tocomplete approved invest -
ments and obligations.Description of risk
» T
hat IT systems are attacked
and the operations mani-pulated or that informationgets into the wrong hands.
»T
hat sensitive information
is circulated to the wrongpeople.
»N
on-compliance with legal
requirements.Information and IT security
Wallenstam’s management
» C
ontinual work with secu-
rity-enhancing measuressurrounding IT security,upgrades of firewalls, anti- virus protection andsystems, anti-hacking tests,routines for IT security etc.
» P
olicy and guidelines for
information security as wellas internal information andtraining. Routines for infor-mation sharing and handling.
» A D
ata Protection Officer
who works continually withGDPR issues.Description of opportunity
» W
ell-functioning and fit-for-
purpose IT security for ouroperations and that informa-tion is handled securely.
» I
ncreased administrative
efficiency due to IT securityroutines.RISK AREAS OPERATIONS
16 RISK MANAGEMENT AND  OPPORTUNITIESRISK AREAS EXTERNAL
Wallenstam’s management
» H
aving properties in attractive locations
lowers the risk of falling values during an
economic downturn.
» O
ur new construction means less sensitivity to
changing property values, since we generatesurplus values in our construction, mitigatingthe effects of a downturn. Profitability is alsoensured in the event of a change in marketconditions through high demands in relation toreturn on invested capital.
» S
elf-sufficiency in renewable energy provides
lower price senstivity in relation to electricity.Economic cycle
Description of risk
» W
eaker property values. Increased land
prices.
» L
ack of resources and increased costs.
Description of opportunity
» P
ositive development in the value of our
properties.
» I
ncreased access to land and land allocations
as most other players do not have the samelong-term possibilities for investments duringan economic downturn.Information and IT security Supply and demand 
Description of risk
» L
ower demand, for example for commercial
premises, co-op apartments, or rental apart -
ments.
» P
rotracted planning processes and a shortage
of available land.
Wallenstam’s management
» O
wn and manage properties in attractive
areas, which are characterized by growth andstrong demand.
» P
roximity and close relationships with tenants.
» F
ollow market trends and be prepared for
changes in demand.
» F
lexible business model with the possibility
to convert and adapt supply, form of tenureand conditions etc. in the event of changingdemand.
» L
ong-term planning and close collaboration
with municipalities and several concurrentdevelopment projects.
» L
and acquisition in focus.Description of opportunity
» H
eavy and stable demand for our products.
» G
ood access to land for new construction.
Opportunities and risks connected to the external environment exist outside of our operations, e.g. in the form of changing market conditions. These are risks that we have little ability to influence in the short term, but which we must take into account in the planning of strategic development.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND O PPORTUNITIES 17 Wallenstam’s management
»F
ollow development of issues concerning our
operations. Interpret legal cases and
regulatory changes that may result inchanged conditions.
» P
roactivity in order to meet new
requirements, practice and laws.
»C
omment on proposals, meetings with
decision-makers in order to clarify theconsequences for the property sector.
»E
nergy-efficient construction and self-  
sufficient in renewable energy.Changes in laws and regulations
Description of risk
» C
hanges in laws, regulations and regulatory
requirements, for example relating to theenvironment, design, tax issues, charges etc.,which result in increased costs and additionaladministration.
Description of opportunity
» C
hanges in laws and regulations, which result
in reduced costs and less administration.
Wallenstam’s management
» L
oan portfolio of different maturities and
spread among various forms of credit andlenders. Choice of the term for capital tied-upis based on factors such as pricing andrefinancing risk in the capital market.
» I
nterest derivatives are used to diversify risk,
to protect the underlying portfolio and as aflexible means of influencing the fixed interestterms in the loan portfolio.Interest rates
Description of risk
» I
nterest rate increases that result in higher
costs and a large impact on profits.
Description of opportunity
» L
ong-term assurance and control over
financing costs.RISK AREAS EXTERNAL
18 RISK MANAGEMENT AND  OPPORTUNITIESWallenstam’s management
»C
ontinual monitoring of the development of
our areas.
» C
o-operation with the municipality, other
property owners, tenants and center
associations.
» I
nitiatives in cooperation with tenants to
strengthen the attractiveness of the inner citythrough events, offers, accessibility, marketingand communication etc.Climate Infrastructure and urban development
Description of risk
» C
limate changes are expected to result in
larger volumes of rainfall, warmer periods,increased flows in watercourses and morepowerful winds which can impact our proper-ties negatively.Description of risk
»C
hanges and construction of infrastructure or
other matters that can affect the attractive-ness of our properties negatively.
Description of opportunity
»C
hanges and construction of infrastructure or
other matters that can affect the attractive-ness of our properties positively.
SEK million
Change in rental income, residential, 1% 10.7
Change in rental income, negotiable commercial contracts, 1% 2.1
Change in operating costs, 1% 5.2
Change in loan interest rate, 1 percentage point (annual basis) 135SENSITIVITY ANAL YSIS, CASH FLOWWallenstam’s management
» I
n connection with planning new construction,
the possible consequences of a changingclimate are considered.
» E
xisting properties in vulnerable locations
have preparedness, for example waterprotection equipment.
» E
nsure hardened surfaces around properties
in order to handle large amounts of rain duringa short period.
» P
roduction of renewable energy results in a
lower global climate impact.Description of opportunity
»I
n the work that is being carried out to handle
the climate impact, there are opportunities tocreate synergies that benefit our constructionand management operations.RISK AREAS EXTERNAL
RISK MANAGEMENT AND O PPORTUNITIES 19 
 When Covid-19 became a tangible reality at 
the beginning of the year, it meant several changes for all employees at Wallenstam. Early in the year CEO Hans Wallenstam began to hold daily – later weekly – digital Organization and employees
About 270 employees work in the Wallenstam Group, who with great dedication have contributed 
to the company’s development. We are careful to maintain a working environment where consi -
deration is shown to employees and to offer challenges that provide individuals the opportunity to grow in their professional roles.
able to offer a good and pleasant workplace, which offers 
employees the opportunity to develop and grow along with the company. Wallenstam works actively on offering good conditions and an excellent working environment and  places great weight on competencies, personal attributes and qualities. Read more on page 7 about our guiding  principle where the focus through our strong corporate culture, is on being an attractive employer and on im- proving our Engagement Index score every year.
Training and development 
Employee performance reviews are conducted annually to support career and personal development, follow up jointly-established goals, gauge the work situation and plan future skills development efforts. Skills development occurs continually via external and internal training cour -
ses and through exchange of knowledge among colleagues.This, as well as challenges in the day-to-day work are other important elements of a motivating work situation. As  far as possible, Wallenstam provides opportunities for  advancement within the company, e.g. by announcing vacant positions internally first. The development of the individual employee within the company is also promoted in other ways, for example through the exchange of  experience in improvement projects with participants representing different departments and regions. group meetings with the entire company, in order to inform  
about the situation and current action plans, and to provide 
the opportunity for all employees to share small and large 
things th at are happening i n the business.
As an organization, we have successfully managed to 
change over to a more digital way of working involving 
home working and alternative forms of meetings, a  
shift which imposed great demands on both individual 
employees and on the respective managers. The personal 
responsibility and consideration for each other has been 
demonstrated in a clear way as Covid-19 has also meant a 
significantly higher workload for certain parts of the  
organization. The employees who have had a lower work -
load have with great commitment provided reinforcement 
to departments that have faced greater pressure. 
Attractive em ployer 
While it has been a year with many special challenges, our 
work on improving, refining and harmonizing our organi -
zation and our internal routines continued, with the aim 
of continuing to be an attractive employer. We want to be 
20 ORGANIZATION AND EM PLOYEESMany activities have been adapted to the new con-
ditions during 2020. For example, our introductory conference for new employees and response training for letting agents has occurred digitally. We also conduct digital training for all employees in preventing the risks of improper influence, corruption and other irregularities.Focus on health and wellness training
We attach great importance to the physical working envi -
ronment and health-promoting activities. There are excel -
lent opportunities for both group and individual training 
in fitness centers at each office, while health and wellness training is subsidized. In 2020, we have offered more group training outdoors, and since many are working at home, we have been extra careful to encourage employees to move around in their everyday lives, for example, through break exercises and training sessions where it is possible to participate digitally. All employees are also offered regular occupational healthcare with the purpose of promoting continued good health. We have clear policies and routines in place to identify ill health among our employees. 
Working for gender equality 
At Wallenstam, women and men have the same condi -
tions. Gender equality initiatives based on several different aspects, for example during recruitments, development initiatives and setting of salaries, are an ongoing process, which we as a company are continually working to main -
tain and improve. 
In the Group Management, the distribution between 
women and men is perfectly uniform. At middle manage -
ment level, the distribution is 51 percent women and 49 percent men, while in the company as a whole, it is 58 per -
cent women and 42 percent men. In the Board of Directors, the distribution is 40 percent women and 60 percent men. 
Values and Code of Conduct 
The day-to-day operations are conducted on the basis of the Group’s core values; respect, commitment and pro -
gress. Overall, the work at Wallenstam is governed by  policies, guidelines and instructions and by decision-making and authorization procedures, which are all im -
portant for clearly defining the company’s standpoints and working methods for the entire organization. The Code of Conduct is based on our core values and emphasizes the policies and guidelines that govern the Group in relation to employees, customers, suppliers and partners. The goal is to have an environmental, social and commercial com -
mitment in everything we do. We shall comply with laws and regulations, and apply responsible business methods, which are characterized by high business ethics and good business practice. 
Improvement metrics 
We conduct regular employee surveys to measure  
employees’ views of their personal work situation, the company and its management. Here we also continually follow up our Engagement Index score. The results are used as one of a number of tools for improvements in the company. Areas singled out in the surveys for Wallenstam were mainly highly-regarded leadership, confidence in Management and a strong feeling of togetherness. We also conduct regular evaluations where employees provide feedback to their manager based on a number of identified criteria which are important in the leadership at Wallen -
stam. The result is used as an individual development tool for the company’s managers.
ORGANIZATION AND EMPLOY EES 21  270
PERSONS EMPLOYED
Wallenstam had 270 employees at year-end 2020. The  
majority are permanent employees, with a distribution of  58 percent women and 42 percent men. Approximately  30 percent of the employees are based in Stockholm, the rest are in Gothenburg. Wallenstam’s employees are covered by the collective bargaining agreement with Fastigo.
9 years
IS THE AVERAGE LENGTH OF EMPLOYMENT
for permanently employed personnel at Wallenstam. Absence due to illness during the year amounted to 2.4 percent (3.5). Employee turnover during the year was 7 percent (7).
Secondary school, 1%
Upper 
secondary,
32%University or 
equivalent, 67%EDUCATION LEVEL
0–2 years, 22% >10 years, 33%
6–10 years, 23% 3–5 years, 22%PERIOD OF EMPLOYMENT60–69 50–59 40–49 30–39 20–29Number of
AgeAGE DISTRIBUTION IN THE GROUP
020406080100
Women MenREPRESENTATION GROUP MANAGEMENTREPRESENTATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Women MenManagement and construction  
operations with a local presence
Wallenstam is organized into two regions: the Gothenburg 
business area, and the Stockholm business area, which also includes the operations in Uppsala. Property  management and construction operations are conducted in each business area with Wallenstam’s own managers  and building project managers that cooperate with  external suppliers and contractors. This local presence enables knowledge about the local property market, changes and business opportunities and provides the  basis for understanding our customers’ needs and busi-nesses. This promotes commitment and drive, both in the organization as a whole and on the part of each employee. Our staff, specialized in e.g. finance, law, IT, personnel, information and market, supports our operations.
Region
GöteborgCEO &  
staff functionsBusiness area 
GothenburgBusiness area 
Stockholm
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) 
increases the chance to survive  a cardiac arrest
Refresher training in cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation was offered to all employees 
during 2020. The training was paused due 
to Covid-19, and will be resumed as soon as 
possible. We have also increased the number of 
automatic external defibrillators so that there are 
now a total of 14 in our three offices.Central c ustomer s ervice
Our customer service is organized as a central function 
within the company, which enables longer opening hours 
and a high level of accessibility for our customers who 
can reach us via the web, e-mail or cost-free phone call. 
Systematic work and well-developed routines ensure 
that cases are handled in the best way and we report 
back to customers during the process. Follow-up and 
improved routines help us in our continual ambition to 
increase customer satisfaction. 
Partner c oncept  for p roperty ca re
Property care and maintenance are services we procure 
from e xternal s uppliers t hrough a w ell-developed pa rtner 
concept, Wallenstam Partner. Recognition and peace of 
mind for the customer are created by a common working 
method and by having the Wallenstam logo on clothes 
and ID cards. Close collaboration, frequent partner  
meetings and visits to buildings by our own property 
managers on a rolling schedule are important for  
assuring the quality of property care.
4422  ORORGGANANISAIZATION OT ION AND CH MEDEMPLOARBETYEESA RE23 WALLENSTAM’S GRI REPOR TINGWallenstam applies Global Reporting Initiative, GRI Standards. The reporting follows the financial year and is published annually as part of the 
annual report. The latest GRI Report was published on March 19, 2020. This report describes how the Wallenstam Group has worked with sustainability issues during 2020. Wallenstam has defined the scope of the report as the areas referred to in the GRI index. A table is provided on the following pages of what GRI disclosures are reported and where information about the disclosures is found in Wallenstam’s reporting. This report has not been reviewed by an external party.  The contact person with regard to the reporting and its content is Sustainabilty Manager Karin Mizgalski, karin.mizgalski@wallenstam.se.  Information is provided below on the disclosures that are not reported elsewhere in the annual report.Wallenstam’s GRI reporting
102-8:  INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS
The average number of employees in 2020 amounted to 252. All of the Group’s employees are permanent employees, with the exception of 13 people who are probationary employees and 9 people who are employed on a temporary basis, for example in the form of work as a substitute. 8 people work part time, all of whom are permanent employees. Wallenstam had no significant variation in the number of employees during the year. Temporary employees are not reported, as Wallenstam uses temporary employees to a minor extent. 
102-11:  PREC AUTIONARY PRINCIPLE OR APPROACH
In many instances, Wallenstam acts in accordance with the precautionary approach, even though we do not use it as a concept in governance and strategies. For example, the precautionary approach is used in our work on identifying, analyzing and following up risks.
102-13:  MEMBERSH IP OF ASSOCIATIONS
Representatives of Wallenstam are represented in the governing bodies of Avenyföreningen, Fastighetsägar -
na GFR, Fastighetsägarna Centrala Hisingen (FCH), (b)id Stigberget, Innerstaden Göteborg AB, Göteborg Citysamverkan ideell förening, Göteborg & Co, Mölnlycke Centrumförening and Johanneberg Science Park.302-1: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION
Unit 2018* 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Fuel consumption
Total fuel consumption from 
non-renewable sources MWh 521 496 146
Heating oil MWh 379 353  146 
Natural gas MWh 142 143 -
T otal fuel consumption from renewable sources MWh - - 116
Biogas - -  116
Energy consumption
Electricity** MWh 41,280 37,889  37,074 
Heating MWh 89,081 87,611  80,480 
District heating MWh 88,560 87,115  80,218 
Oil MWh 379 353  146 
Natural gas MWh 142 143 -
Biogas MWh - -  116 
Cooling MWh 557 425  259 
District cooling MWh 557 425  259 
Total energy consumption,  
non-renewableMWh 49,983 47,395 42,719
Total energy consumption, renewable MWh 80,934 78,531 75,094
Total energy consumption iMWh 130,917 125,925 117,813
Heating per sq m climate-adjusted KWh 80.4 79.9 74.7
Own electricity production from renewable sources
Wind power 
MWh 337,880 367,246 416,696
302-4: REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION*
Unit 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Total reduction MWh 4,992 13,105
Reduction electricity MWh 3,390 4,206
Reduction heating MWh 1,470 8,601
Reduction cooling MWh 132 298Refers to energy use in Wallenstam’s property holdings, not climate-adjusted, including wind power, district 
heating, district cooling, oil and natural gas. Does not include tenants’ electricity use.302-3: ENERGY INTENSITY
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
kWh/per sq m 110 105 96
Proper ty 
elec tricit yOur business  tripsT ransports to and 
from our cons truc-
tion site sMaterial and the 
cons truc tion 
proc essTenants’  elec trical 
subscription s and 
wasteOwn an d 
leased  
vehiclesOwn 
boiler sEmission s 
of refrig-
erantsDistrict heating an d 
distri ct coolingSCOPE 1S COPE 2S COPE 3Wher e do the Wa llenstam Gr oup’s emissi ons ar ise?
Fossil-fuel combus tion from 
own proper ties, facilities an d 
vehicles .Purchased ener gy for our 
proper ties.Emissions fr om:
• Purchased goods and se rvices
• Proper ty mana gement  and construction
• Tenants’ ener gy consumpt ion and wa ste201-1: DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED
SEK million
Economic value generated 
Revenues  2,844    
Economic value distributed Operating costs –519
Employee wages, benefits and pensions –209
Interest payments to providers of capital –264
Payments to government (property tax, VAT) –897
Dividend to shareholders –162
Community investments –18
T otal economic value distributed –2,069
Economic value retained 775GRI 305: GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS CO2E***
Absolute value stated in tons CO2 and intensity value stated in kg CO2/sq m. We have expanded our reporting of CO2 emissions this year to also include refrigerants, business travel and 
materials for construction projects.2018* 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity
Scope 1
305-1 DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS 
Oil 102 0.086 94 0.079 39 0.032
Gas 30 0.026 29 0.024 5 0.004
Refrigerants n/a n/a 809 0.677 561 0.457
Business travel by car n/a n/a n/a n/a 34 0.028
T otal Scope 1 132 0.112 932 0.780 639 0.521
Scope 2
305-2 INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS Electricity – Market-based method 
100% internally produced wind power - - - - - -
Electricity – Location-based method Average emission factor for Swedish-produced electricity  578 0.486 493 0.413 297 0.241
District heating 5,097 4.288 4,690 3.929 3,135 2.551
District cooling - - - - - -
T otal Scope 2 (market-based) 5,097 4.288 4,690 3.929 3,135 2.551
Scope 3
305-3 OTHER INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS
Materials in construction projects n/a n/a 29,118 221 8,397 185
Business travel by air, train and taxi n/a n/a n/a n/a 8 0.006
T otal Scope 3 29,118 221 8,405 185
305-5 REDUCTION OF GHG EMISSIONS
Absolute 
reductionReduction 
per sq mAbsolute 
reductionReduction 
per sq mAbsolute 
reductionReduction 
per sq mAbsolute 
reductionReduction 
per sq mAbsolute 
reductionReduction 
per sq mAbsolute 
reductionReduction 
per sq m
Scope 1 - - –799 –0.67 –507 –0.41
Scope 2 - - 407 0.36 1,962 1.74
Scope 3**** n/a n/a - - 20,713 36
WALLENSTAM’S GRI REP ORTING 24406-1: INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN
No incidents of discrimination were reported in 2020.
*Base year 2018 – commences from start of the business plan 2019–2023.
** The electricity item includes electricity consumption relating to heat pumps.
***All data regarding CO 2 in this table is based on inputs from suppliers, which report 
according to prevailing accounting standards. As data for the actual impact in 
2020 was not available during preparation of this reporting, the heating data is based to a minor extent on estimated values based on the emission factors for the year 2019.
**** As regards 2018, Scope 3 was not reported, of which a decrease is expected from 2019.
GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission
General Disclosures 
GRI 102:
General disclosures 2016102-1
Name of the organization cover
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 69
102-3 Location of headquarters 69
102-4 Location of operations 69
102-5 Ownership and legal form 78
102-6 Markets served 45-50
102-7 Scale of the organization 69, 74-75
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 42-44, 150
102-9 Supply chain 32-33
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Not applicable
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 11, 33, 150
102-12 External initiatives 29-35
102-13 Membership of associations 150
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 9-11
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 29-35
102-18 Governance structure 135-140
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 3, 5, 30
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 43
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 29-30
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 29-30
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 30
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 78, 123 All units are covered by the GRI reporting.
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 29-30
102-47 List of material topics 30
102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable
102-49 Changes in reporting Expanded reporting: disclosure 305-1, 305-3 and 405-2
102-50 Reporting period 150
102-51 Date of most recent report 150
102-52 Reporting cycle 150
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 150
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 150
102-55 GRI content index 150-152
102-56 External assurance 150 Index continues on next pageGRI content index Page references can be found in Wallenstam's annual report 2020401-1 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER
New employees 2020
AgeNumber of 
persons of whom 
women/men of whom in 
Gothenburg/Stockholm
Under 30 years 11 6/5 6/5
30-50 years 12 6/6 4/8
Over 50 years 0 - -
T otal 23 12/11 10/13
405-2 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN
The ratio in this case describes the relationship between the agreed average salary of men and wo-
men and is calculated by dividing women’s salary by men’s salary, and men’s salary by women’s salary.
Women’s salary Men’s salary
Including Group Management, excluding CEO 88 % 114 %
Excluding Group Management 88 % 114 %25 WALLENSTAM’S GRI REPOR TINGGRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission Agenda 2030 
SDGUN Global Compact
Principles**
Wallenstam Material Topics
Stable economy
GRI 103: Manage-
ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 1-4 , 24, 29-32, 38-40
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016201-1
Direct economic value generated and distributed 66-67, 73-75, 84-85, 119, 150
Anti-corruption 10
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 30-33, 38, 43
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 205: Anti-  
corruption 2016205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 31
Sustainable materials 9
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 29-30, 34, 151 *
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
Energy efficiency 8
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 29-30, 32-34, 41
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 302: Energy 2016302-1
Energy consumption within the organization 150
302-3 Energy intensity 150
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 150
Greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 29-30, 32-34, 41
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 305: Emissions 2016305-1
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 151
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 151
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 151, see table GRI 305
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 151
Waste management
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 29-30, 34, 151 *
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
Fair and decent employment 3, 4
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 30-32, 37, 42-44
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 401: Employ -
ment 2016401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 43, 150-151
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 37, 42-44
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
Wallenstams Own Disclosure (WOD)WOD-1
Sick leave 42-43
Customer satisfaction
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2-3, 6, 29-30, 32, 51-53 
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
Wallenstams Own Disclosure (WOD)WOD-2
Key conclusions of customer surveys 6, 43
Diversity and gender equality 6
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 30, 32, 42-44
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportuni-ty 2016405-1
Diversity of governance bodies and employees 42-44, 86, 136
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 151
Inclusive business climate 6
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 
Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 30-32, 42-44
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 406: Non-  
discrimination 2016406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 151GRI content index, cont.
*During the year, Wallenstam continued to map this focus area in order to define goals. ** UN Global Compact Principles
Principle 3, Labour: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.
Principle 4, Labour: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and com -
pulsory labour.P
rinciple 6, Labour: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of 
employment and occupation.Principle 7, Environment: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to  
environmental challenges.P
rinciple 8, Environment: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environ -
mental responsibility.P
rinciple 9, Environment: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 
environmentally friendly technologies.Principle 10, Anti-corruption: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 
including extortion and bribery.Wallenstam AB (publ) identity no. 556072-1523
info@wallenstam.se  www.wallenstam.seTelephone +46 031 20 00 00
Gothenburg:
SE-401 84 GothenburgVisiting address Kungsportsavenyen 2
Stockholm:
Box 19531, SE-104 32 StockholmVisiting address Birger Jarlsgatan 64 
Photo pages 5, 24–25, 26–27 Ingemar Edfalk
Photo pages 6, 7, 18 left, 19 bottom left, 19 bottom right, 
36, 40–41, 42 , 50 Carolin Freiholtz/Omelettfoto
Photo pages 9, 13, 14–17, 22, 46, 47, 61 Dan Holmqvist Photo page 19 top Emelie SundqvistPhoto page 21 Nicklas EliassonPhoto page 35 top Astrakan/Scandinav Photo page 35 bottom Anders Hirv/Human BridgePhoto page 49 bottom Henrik NeroPhoto page 52 PolestarPhoto pages 54, 56–57 Ulf CelanderVisualization images:pages 8, 59 Liljewall Arkitekter pages 60–61, 62–63 Zynka VisualUnattributed photos/images are Wallenstam’s own.
Production: Newsroom
Translation: David Murphy, Word of MouthRepro and printing: Billes TryckeriPrinted on: cover Amber Graphic 300 g, insert Amber Graphic 130 g.CALENDAR
Annual General Meeting  A pril 27, 2021
Interim report I 
 A
pril 27, 2021 
Interim report II 
 J
uly 8, 2021
Interim report III 
 O
ctober 22, 2021
Information regarding Wallenstam’s business  
operations, financial reporting and press releases  
can be found at www.wallenstam.se.