COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2021 We have delivered a very good result for 2021 
which I am both proud of and grateful for. 
I would like to convey a big thank you to all 
our employees who have made a fantastic effort! We have managed to handle the chal -
lenges that we faced during the year in an excellent way! 
Through transactions and new production, we have 
‘polished’ our property holdings further during 2021. 
Our apartments are located in popular residential areas 
in Gothenburg, Stockholm and Uppsala and our commer -
cial holdings are concentrated in Gothenburg inner city. 
We like to have the properties concentrated in clusters, 
which is good and efficient from a management perspec -
tive. Through the transactions and the sale of our 
repurchased shares, we have increased the 
equity/assets ratio from 42 percent to 46 
percent. 
Income from property management 
increased by 13 percent. A large part came from our cost-efficient new con -
struction, which generates both real 
value and contributes to a higher sur -
plus ratio. Three years into the business 
plan, we have now increased our net asset 
value by SEK 35.30 per share. Happily, we feel 
that the goal of an increase in net asset value of SEK 40 per 
share is within reach. Naturally, this feels extremely good! 
As the goal is within reach, it is stimulating that the 
Board has taken the decision to bring forward the work on a new business plan by one year. The Board expects that it 
can be unveiled during the fourth quarter of 2022.Comments by the CEO
Strong property market
The strong demand that now prevails in the property market is reflected in property valuations. This has meant 
that we have seen large increases in value in our property 
holdings.  
We have sold properties in all of our locations, where 
some have been vacated during 2021 and others will be vacated in early 2022. We have also sold an ongoing pro -
ject in Uppsala which will be vacated when the property is 
completed in 2023. In total, the sales amounted to about 
SEK 3.75 billion, which releases both resources for further new production and increases our freedom of action to 
take advantage of future business opportunities.  
In addition, we have acquired a large commercial 
property, comprising 12,000 sq m of floor space, on Östra Hamngatan right in the center of Gothenburg. The prop -
erty contains large, concentrated office space and comple -
ments our other holdings in the inner city. It is really great to be able to grow our commercial holdings in such a good 
location!
Stable demand for our premises
The pandemic and the increased competition from e-commerce has changed the conditions for our customers’ 
businesses on the ground floors. A natural consequence 
is to fill the inner city with new exciting businesses and activities, even though this is a shift that can take a little 
time. During the year, we have for example, made conver -
sions of two-floor stores to stores on the ground floor and 
other activities on the second floor – reconstructions which 
have been very successful. 
I can state that for the office market as a whole, the of-
fice is still important as a meeting point. Some things can be done from home and digitally, but in the longer term 
people need to meet and solve tasks together. I see that de -
mand is increasing for more social space in office premises, 
and I think that this trend will continue. 
We are experiencing stable demand for our offices. The 
occupancy rate for commercial premises is 95 percent, which is our goal, and rental rates are stable.  
It is also gratifying that we have made many new lets, 
not least in our newly constructed commercial property 
in Kallebäcks Terrasser. Here, I would like to take this 
2 COMMENTS BY THE CEOAs the goal is within reach, it is 
stimulating that the Board has 
taken the decision to bring forward 
the work on a new business plan by 
one year. The Board expects that it 
can be unveiled during the fourth 
quarter of 2022.35.30
SEK/SHARE 
IN INCREASED  
 NET ASSET VALUE Hans Wallenstam,
CEO Wallenstam.
opportunity to welcome as the first commercial tenants 
both Bico and their subsidiary Cellink, which together are 
taking half of the building.
Building housing in the right locations  
Our project starts have been affected during the pandemic. Due to protracted permit processes in the municipalities 
and courts, we have not been able to start our projects at the rate we have wanted, something that I hope the parties 
concerned will address. These are projects that have there -
fore been delayed, and we will be able to start them gradu -ally. Our ongoing projects have progressed as planned 
and we have been able to complete many new apartments – almost 1,400 units.
During 2021, the zoning plan was completed for Älta
Torg and we could start construction of the first block in our latest urban development project, where we will build 
approximately 1,000 apartments and a new center includ -
ing commercial premises for services and culture. Apart 
from Älta Torg, we have three further urban development 
projects. Umami Park in Sundbyberg with about 1,000 
apartments, Mölnlycke Fabriker with about 800 apart -
COMMENTS BY THE CEO 34 COMMENTS BY THE CEO
Umami Park, 
Sundbyberg.Hans Wallenstam, CEOments and Kallebäcks Terrasser in Gothenburg with about 
2,000 apartments. The advantage of these projects is that 
we can work with an entire area and it is easier for us to 
control when the construction starts of the various phases will occur. It is very satisfying to see how all of our urban 
development projects are taking shape nicely and are be -
coming new districts with homes for many people! 
Some reports have contended that there is surplus 
production of rental apartments in Sweden right now. In 
certain locations, apartments have been built even though there is a balance in the housing market, perhaps as a result 
of the investment support for construction of rental hous -
ing. However, I want to stress that there is a huge housing 
need in the places Wallenstam operates. We see this, among 
other ways, in our own queue for our new production 
where approximately 175,000 people have now registered. We also see great interest for our apartments in our letting 
operations. For example, there were more than 7,000 appli -
cants for the 84 apartments in our new construction project 
Stationshuset in Bandhagen, Stockholm, which will be 
ready in June. After 30 years as CEO, I can state as always 
that it is about location – building and managing properties in attractive areas where people want to live and work.
Wallenstam’s sustainability work
In particular, our housing production is one of Wal -
lenstam’s most important sustainability initiatives, by 
helping to provide new homes to many people every year. 
During 2021, we started the construction of our 10,000th apartment since the turn of the millennium and this is a 
milestone that we are proud of! 
The climate issue is also important for us. Since 2013, 
we have been self-sufficient in renewable electrical energy, which is produced by our own wind turbines, and we now 
have an ambition to environmentally certify all of our new production. We have also made improvements to all of our 
four climate targets. For instance, we have reduced CO2 
emissions from our construction operations by almost 8 percent compared to 2019, which is the base year of the 
climate targets.
For me, it is obvious that men and women should have 
the same conditions and opportunities, but also the same responsibilities and requirements. I believe that this ap -
proach partly explains why Wallenstam ended up as high 
COMMENTS BY THE CEO  5 as place number 16 out of 320 in the Allbright report, 
where the Allbright foundation examines gender equality 
in Sweden’s listed companies.   
Apart from gender equality, climate and environmen -
tal issues and providing more homes, we also work with other sustainability aspects. Ever since the company was 
founded, we have been careful to contribute to society, and we want to act as a responsible party. Therefore it is natu -
ral for us to collaborate with various aid organizations and support youth activities through sponsorship and dona-tions. Wallenstam has already also signed the UN’s Global 
Compact, which means that we support and work on the 
basis of the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the precautionary approach, anti-corruption and 
taking of responsibility in relation to environmental issues.
Good share performance
The share has performed extremely well in 2021, with a 
new record price – SEK 168.70 per share. Of course, this 
is gratifying for all of us shareholders – there are more 
than 18,000 of us now. When the share price passed SEK 140 our synthetic options scheme fell due for redemp -
tion. It feels really great that all our employees can share in this excellent share performance, and extra nice that it happened in 2021 in particular, perhaps when we needed 
encouragement the most!
Unique position
At the end of February, the war in Ukraine began. It is a 
terrible situation for those affected and we are trying to 
provide support in the crisis through contributions to a 
number of aid organizations that can assist with humani -
tarian efforts. Although the conflict does not directly 
impact Wallenstam’s operations, there is a constant readi -
ness to deal with possible consequences even in Sweden. 
However, I feel confident given the fact that Wallenstam 
has a unique position with properties in the right locations 
and with a strong financial position. We have a solid in -
vestment program ahead of us with many future construc -
tion plans – we will continue with our new production, our management and our letting, and continue to create value growth, always with a keen awareness for changes and 
shifts. Wallenstam’s business model stands strong even in 
these times!After 30 years as CEO, I can state 
as always that it is about location  
– building and managing properties
in attractive areas where people
want to live and work.Business plan 2019–2023
GOAL 2023
To achieve an increase in net asset value of SEK 40 per share
 The goal to achieve an increase in net asset value of SEK 40 per share during the 
business plan is equivalent to an increase of 50 percent starting from October 1, 
2018. As of September 30, 2018, the Group’s net asset value amounted to SEK 
25,608 million, which is equivalent to SEK 79.20 per share and is the starting point 
for the measurement. On December 31, 2021, the net asset value amounted to SEK 
37,795 million, which corresponds to SEK 114.50 per share. This means that we have gener -
ated SEK 35.30 per share to date. Net asset value growth is created by successful letting, 
efficient management, value-creating investments, cost-efficient new construction and strong 
business operations.  
During the business plan 2023, Wallenstam is continuing to work in the growth regions of 
Gothenburg, Stockholm and Uppsala. We are striving to become even more service-oriented, 
productive and efficient, so that we can create even more value for our shareholders, employ -
ees, customers and society as a whole. During the business plan, the equity/assets ratio shall not fall below 30 percent.
We have linked three guiding principles to our business plan – employee, customer and envi -
ronment – that aim to clarify important focus areas in our operations, also see pages 14–16.
Increase in net asset value, SEK/share
3.1012.1019.1035.30
Q4 2018 2023 2022 2021 2020 201940
30
20
10
0
6 BUSINESS PLAN 2019 –2023THIS IS HOW WE CREATE VA LUE  7  This is how we create value
We create value growth through construction, development and management
with a high level of service and long-term sustainability.
Business process
Wallenstam builds, acquires, develops and man -
ages properties and areas based on the needs of 
people and society, and according to the wishes 
and requirements of customers. We create value growth through construction, development and management with 
a high level of service and long-term sustainability. Profits 
are reinvested and used to further develop the business. 
The shareholders receive a share of the value growth 
through these reinvestments and through dividends.
Efficient management and development
Our properties and public areas adjacent to the 
properties are developed and refined based on 
maintenance plans and customer needs and wish-
es. Safety, comfort and long-term profitability are key words when we, for example, modernize the courtyards of resi -
dential buildings, carry out optimized operations projects, or when we develop inner city environments to contribute to 
meeting places and a city pulse. Through our own wind pow -
er production, we are self-sufficient in renewable electricity.Successful letting organization
With good knowledge of and proximity to the local market and great commitment in taking 
care of customer relationships, a strong basis 
is created for maintaining a uniform and high occupancy rate in our commercial holdings, where we take a holis-
tic approach to the area. The residential holdings are 
fully let and in line with the completion of a large number 
of new construction projects, letting occurs of all new 
apartments.
Cost-efficient construction
We mainly build rental apartments for our 
own management, but also a smaller num -
ber of co-op apartments and commercial 
properties. Our process and flexible business model, 
makes it possible to complete our new construction 
projects in both economic upturns and downturns. We 
work continually on densifying existing construction 
and on acquiring land and seeking land allocations in 
order to continually replenish our project portfolio.Our operations and business model  Need
ProfitValue growth
DividendBuild and buy Manage and develop
”Through our strong corporate culture, we shall be an attractive employer 
and improve our Engagement Index score every year.”
Knowledgeable and dedicated employees are one of our success factors as a company and the most important 
resource for our operations. Dedicated employees ensure more satisfied tenants and more efficient operations.
Read more about Wallenstam’s organization and how we work with personnel-related issues on page 40.
8 GUIDING PRINCIPLE EMPLOYEEGuiding principle Employee
ATTRACT
RECRUIT
WELCOME
Onboarding
DEVELOPRETAINTERMINATEEmployees in focus
Wallenstam’s strategic employee plan is an important 
tool for effectively attracting, retaining and develop-
ing dedicated employees. During 2021, we have 
continued to focus on optimizing, streamlining and 
simplifying the process around recruiting em -
ployees, among other ways, by introducing a 
new system as support. 
In addition, we have 
improved the induction 
process for new employ -
ees of Wallenstam. The 
highly regarded introduction conferences for new 
employees have been supplemented with short in -
formation sections which are communicated digitally regarding Wallenstam’s operations, organization and 
values, and an introductory meeting, which is held for the new employee within one month of the start of 
employment. Our strategic employee plan shows how we are 
working with the guiding principle Employee.
The Engagement Index shows how engaged the 
employees are, and to what extent the employ -
ees feel satisfied, take responsibility for and feel 
involved in the company’s mission – our goal, 
our business concept and our vision. We 
want to improve our Engagement Index score every year, 
and measure it by asking the question “Would you recom -
mend Wallenstam as an employer to a friend or acquain-
tance?.” A value over zero shows that there are more am -
bassadors than detractors and a value between 20 and 30 
is considered to be very good. Wallenstam’s Engagement Index 
score is 60 and has decreased slightly compared to the previous year, 
when it was 65. Of the 237 people who responded to the survey, 68 
percent were classified as ambassadors for the company. Strong corporate culture
An enterprising attitude, stability, purposefulness, security, together -
ness and equality are some of the qualities that our corporate culture 
is based on and that are connected 
to our core values – respect, 
commitment and progress. Wal-
lenstam’s values do not just reside 
in the walls of the company, but 
are created by all the employees 
together. Therefore it is important to continue the work to -
gether on strengthening our value platform and the familial corporate culture that we have at Wallenstam.60
ENGAGEMENT 
INDEX SCORE
GUIDING PRINCIPLE CU STOMER 9  ”We shall exceed customer expectations and improve the overall impression of Wallenstam every 
year through attractive apartments and premises as well as good service.”
Our customers are at the center of our business and it is important for us to be able to offer the right product and service to our 
residential and commercial tenants. Satisfied customers that are happy are loyal and rent longer with us, which among other things, 
contributes to lower relocations and increased security. A satisfied customer is also a good ambassador for us as a company.
Our service index score increased in the 2021 survey, both among our 
residential tenants and our commercial tenants. In residential, the ser -
vice index increased by just over 1 percentage point and in commercial 
premises by 2.5 percentage points. The service index is a weighting of 
the tenants’ ratings with regard to security, response and service.81.0%
SERVICE INDEX 
RESIDENTIAL 84.5%
SERVICE INDEX 
COMMERCIAL PREMISESGuiding principle Customer
Even better ratings from our customers
We conduct regular CSI (Customer Satisfaction Index) surveys 
where we ask our customers what they think about our service, 
our product and our image. In the latest survey, the company’s 
already strong ratings have improved further in several areas. 
The availability and response from our customer service is still 
top class, our capable partners obtained high ratings in relation to property care in our properties and customers 
are satisfied with their apartments and their premises, for 
example with regard to the design and standard. The pro -
portion of customers that want to recommend us has increased during the year, and customer satisfaction for example relating to 
tenant information, cleaning and sorting of refuse has improved.
Based on the results from our surveys, we identify areas for 
improvement that we are continuing to work on. The action plans 
relate for example to security, cleaning and maintenance as well 
as operation, such as ventilation and indoor climate, and also 
targeted projects that aim to make it easier for customers to act 
in an environmentally-friendly way. This can, for example, involve sorting at source or recharging possibilities for electric bikes. 
We are also looking specifically at tenant information and the 
process around handling cases of reports of defects, so that our 
customers can obtain even quicker help with their cases. This 
work occurs on a company-wide basis and is led by a process 
manager with the entire customer journey in focus, from the 
housing queue, letting and occupation, information and contact 
with us as a landlord to termination and relocation. Close contact with our customers
We meet our customers every day, through telephone calls, 
e-mail and personal contacts, including through our customer
service that receives reports of defects and viewpoints. 
We are careful to ensure a high level of availability 
for our customers and they can reach us via tele-
phone, e-mail and our chat function. Our residen -
tial tenants also have access to the Wallenstam App where, among other things, they can com -
municate with us and with their neighbors. On the commercial side, account managers maintain close 
contact with the customers in order to quickly identify 
changing needs and requirements.
During 2021, most of the contacts also occurred digitally 
due to the restrictions in place. Towards the end of the year, we 
started physical apartment viewings again, but we will retain 
some digital solutions. For example, the signing of contracts will 
normally occur digitally and we will continue with digital viewings 
of our new construction projects as a supplement to physical viewings, since this has been highly regarded.
We are working to simplify and improve the information to the tenants 
so that it should be uniform and easy to understand. Through a company-
wide information editorial office, we are continually developing our 
customer communication. This work has delivered results – the tenant 
information is getting a high rating from our customers.
Guiding principle Environment
Climate-improved concrete 
In the Bersån project in Uppsala which is currently taking 
shape, Wallenstam is building apartments with climate-
improved concrete. A year ago, work started together 
with the contractor and suppliers aimed at reducing 
the project’s carbon footprint. In this work, concrete 
types were identified where the quantity of cement 
could be reduced and also partly replaced by blast fur -
nace slag. Through these initiatives, we have been able 
to reduce our carbon footprint by approximately 15 percent 
compared to the climate calculation of the original material. 
10 GUIDING PRINCIPLE  ENVIRONMENTTarget: Reduce CO₂ emissions from the con -
struction operations by 10 
percent per square meter.  
Outcome 2021*:  -7.9%
Comment: A first step has 
been to perform climate 
calculations in the plan -
ning stage in several of our projects. With these cal-culations as a basis, more 
climate-friendly material 
choices can then be made. 
In addition, certain design 
optimizations have been 
carried out to reduce the 
quantity of material if pos -
sible. A successful example is our Bersån project in 
Uppsala, read more below.”We shall reduce our environmental impact, 
every year, through initiatives within the focus 
areas energy, transports and resources.”The property sector has a significant impact on the environment 
and climate. As a large property owner and construction com -
pany, Wallenstam wants to take responsibility for this impact. 
Wallenstam has four climate targets that aim to reduce the 
company’s CO₂ emissions. The goals apply until 2023, when the current business plan expires. During 2021, we have produced 
an action plan with 55 items that can help us to achieve the four 
targets.
Wallenstam’s sustainability work covers more than climate and environmental issues 
– read about how we work with the UN’s global sustainable development goals on page 25.REDUCED  
CARBON FOOTPRINTWALLENSTAM’S 
FOUR CLIMATE 
TARGETS
* The outcome refers to the current year compared to the base year 2019.Target:  Reduce CO₂ emissions from 
the properties’ energy consumption by 
15 percent per heated square meter. 
Outcome 2021*: -25.7%
Comment: Apart from wind power 
production, where we are self-sufficient 
since 2013, we continued to install 
solar cells during the year in the prop -
erties where it is possible. We have also equipped many apartments with tem -
perature sensors, modernized several district heating substations and carried 
out optimization work such as adjust -
ment of heating systems. An energy saving innovation that we have investi -
gated is heat recovery from the prop -
erties’ waste water. We have already installed this technology in two of our 
properties in Kvillebäcken, Gothenburg.Target: Reduce the prop-
erties’ residual waste by 
10 percent per square 
meter.  
Outcome 2021*: -20.1%
Comment: During the 
year, we have improved 
the possibilities for 
sorting at source in 
several of our proper -
ties, including by supple -
menting environmental 
rooms with additional 
sorting units and provid-
ing clothing collection 
facilities. We have also started work on infor -
mation to our tenants in order to reduce residual 
waste. Target:  Carry out business trips 
using electric car, train or via completely carbon-neutral and 
biofuel-based air travel. 
Outcome 2021*:  Partly achieved
Comment: During 2021, Wal-
lenstam’s business trips have 
been relatively few, and they were 
mostly carried out in a climate-
neutral way. In order to reach 
the target by 2023, additional 
information is required as well 
as a review of routines for travel 
bookings, which is ongoing work, 
sometimes also in collaboration 
with suppliers. Wallenstam’s car pool, which the employees can  
use for car-bound business trips, 
consists exclusively of electric 
cars.WALLENSTAM'S SUSTAINAB ILITY WORK 11  Wallenstam’s sustainability work
Wallenstam wants to contribute to a better society, today and for future generations. This 
is our driving force and what makes us proud of our business. For us, sustainability is about 
pursuing responsible enterprise. By creating solutions that contribute to a long-term positive 
development, we take responsibility for the impact we have on society, the climate and the  
environment. As part of this work, Wallenstam supports the UN’s Global Compact initiative. 
This section constitutes our Communication on Progress (COP report).
 W hen UN's Agenda 2030 was adopted, the 
world’s countries came together to limit 
global warming to well under 2 degrees. 
Research shows that global warming con -
tinues to increase, which results in climate 
change both in the short and long term. 
Agenda 2030 contains ambitious goals in relation 
to equality, poverty, peace and justice. Wallenstam is 
continuing to focus on the company’s five prioritized goals 
in Agenda 2030, all aimed at promoting a sustainable development. 
We believe that integrated sustainability work and strong 
social engagement go hand in hand with long-term prof-  
itability, and for this reason, sustainability is a core part of 
our business. This delivers good control, minimizes busi -
ness and operational risks, improves efficiency, generates new solutions and business and ensures more engaged em -
ployees, more secure investors and more satisfied customers. 
The practical and day-to-day sustainability work, 
which is based on the company’s sustainability policy, 
strategy and the implemented climate targets, covers all 
parts of the operations, and all managers have a respon -
sibility for driving the sustainability work. Outcomes are 
followed up and regularly reported to Group Management 
and the Board. The CEO is ultimately responsible for the 
work with the material topics and risks that are prioritized in Wallenstam’s sustainability work.
Wallenstam has reported its sustainability work since 
2006 and reports according to Global Reporting Initia-tive (GRI) since 2010. We also reported our emissions of 
greenhouse gases and other climate-related data during 
the year to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project).
IMPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS
Critical
WALLENSTAM'S IMPACTMATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY AREAS BASED ON 
STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUEWALLENSTAM’S CLIMATE TARGETS 2023
CI
D
EGB
A
JL
K
H
F
Stable financial position  
and anti-corruption
A F inancial position in balance
B Anti-corruption
Social conditions  
and employees
C G ood working conditions
D S afe and secure working
E I nclusive corporate culture
F Eq uality and diversity
G SuppliersReduce CO₂ emissions 
from the construction op-
erations by 10 percent per 
square meter. (Scope 3)
Reduce the properties’ 
residual waste by 10 per -
cent per square meter. 
(Scope 3)Reduce CO₂ emissions from the 
properties’ energy consumption by 15 percent per heated square 
meter. (Scope 1 & 2)
Carry out business trips using 
electric car, train or via com-
pletely carbon-neutral and 
biofuel-based air travel. (Scope 3)
A calibration was performed during the year of the stake -
holder analysis which was conducted in 2018, which forms 
the basis for the sustainability work during the business plan 
2019–2023. The calibrated analysis shows that both our 
stakeholders and Group Management believe that the climate 
and environmental issues have become even more important, 
which is why these areas have been adjusted in the chart.See the outcome for 2021 on page 16.
Very important
Critical Very important
Customer
H Customer  
 satisfaction
Environment
 I G reenhouse gases
 J E nergy efficiency
K Waste 
 management
L Sustainable 
b uilding materialAs part of our sustainability work, 
Management adopted four climate 
targets during the previous yea r, 
which apply until the end of the 
business plan in 2023.
Climate t argets
As part of our sustainability work, Management 
adopted four climate targets during the previous 
year, which apply until the end of the business plan 
in 2023. The aim of the targets is to reduce the 
carbon footprint from our construction operations 
and from the properties’ energy consumption and 
residual waste. In addition, all business trips shall 
be carried out in a climate-neutral way. During the 
year, the business has developed an action plan, 
which can be applied in order to achieve the climate 
targets.
Code of Conduct and Ethics Council
In the construction and property  sector, there are 
risks, for example related to the working environ -
ment, corruption, human rights, climate and the 
environment. Our Code of Conduct, which is built 
on our core values, serves as a central guide for us. 
The Code of Conduct, and a number of guidelines 
connected to it, set out Wallenstam’s approach and 
clarify  how we want to act as a company. The goal 
is to have an environmental, social  and commer -
cial commitment in everything we do. We  comply 
with laws and regulations, and apply responsible 
business methods, which are characterized by high 
business ethics and good business  practice. We 
impose requirements on contractors  that enter into 
cooperation agreements with us that they follow 
the content of our Code of Con duct and act ac -
cording to it. Violations of the Code  of Conduct, 
internally or by partners, can damage Wallenstam’s 
operations and brand. 
The Code of Conduct, which is available in its 
entirety o n www.wallenstam.se, is revised a nnually 
and subsequently adopted by the Board.
Training and information about the Code of Con -
duct and specific guidelines, for example on anti-
corruption and information security are mandatory 
for all employees including Group Management and 
the Board. Training occurs regularly, as part of the 
introductory program for new employees, among 
other ways and as digital training for all employees. 
12 WALLENSTAM'S SUSTAIN ABILITY WORKWALLENSTAM'S SUSTAINAB ILITY WORK 13  MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY AREAS BASED ON
STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUEWALLENSTAM’S CLIMATE TARGETS 2023
Human rights 
Having a home is a fundamental need and constitutes an im -
portant part of a functioning society. There is currently a severe 
housing shortage. We want to help to provide more homes for 
many people by building and managing housing, primarily rental 
apartments, in safe, secure and lively districts. During 2021, we 
started the construction of our 10,000th apartment since the 
turn of the millennium, and we completed 1,364 
apartments during the 
year.
We also have a num -
ber of social contracts 
with municipalities and organizations, where we make housing available for people who 
find it difficult to obtain a regular contract. For example, this 
can relate to social contracts and transitional accommodation. 
Several of the contracts change over to regular leases when it is 
possible for the tenant.
Our operations are conducted in Sweden and we follow 
applicable rules for example relating to working conditions, the 
working environment and freedom of association. Wallenstam 
supports the UN Declaration of Human Rights and we see that 
we can contribute positively in many areas, including by fighting 
discrimination, treating everyone with respect – employees and 
customers as well as others we meet – and offering equal oppor -
tunities to employees. 10,000
APARTMENT CONSTRUCTION 
STARTS SINCE THE TURN OF 
THE MILLENIUM
During 2020, a new EU regulation was adopted aimed at defin-
ing which asset classes are sustainable and which can therefore 
be considered to be “green” in a placement and investment 
perspective.
Wallenstam’s business is clearly defined according to two 
articles in the taxonomy, in Article 4 Energy production and in 
Article 7 Construction and real estate activities. However, Wal-
lenstam is not covered by a legal reporting requirement as the 
company has less than 500 employees and therefore makes an 
overall report and does not report outcomes in accordance with 
the taxonomy regulation. We intend to make a complete report 
in the coming years. 
Wallenstam is represented in different forums where taxono -
my is discussed and during the year we have prepared ahead of 
future reporting according to the taxonomy. We have reviewed 
and made assessments relating to the entire operations and our 
assets based on the information and the interpretations current -
ly available regarding the taxonomy. All of Wallenstam’s proper -
ties and wind turbines are defined in the regulation, however, not land. So far, there is great uncertainty about the interpretation of 
several of the criteria that Wallenstam has to evaluate in order to EU taxonomy for sustainable investments
report how the company’s economic activities meet the criteria, 
so-called “taxonomy-alignment,” but we have identified that most of the company’s sales, investments and operating expens-
es are affected by the taxonomy.
Umami Park, 
Sundbyberg.What is your reflection when you look back on the year?
"After a summer with extreme weather in large parts of the 
world, I feel that there is a greater understanding of the scale 
of the climate challenge. In Sweden, we experienced both heat -
waves and extreme rainfall with flooding as a consequence in several places in the country. 
For us at Wallenstam it feels, if possible, even more important 
to work proactively to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is im -
portant to remind ourselves that although the situation is acute, it is not too late to act." 
What are the success factors in Wallenstam’s sustain-
ability work?
"A fundamental success factor is that our sustainability work 
is a prioritized area for both Wallenstam’s Management team 
and Board. They were a driving force behind creating and an -
choring both our sustainability strategy and our climate targets. As the strategy and climate targets have now been implemented 
Karin Mizgalski
Sustainability Manager
in the company’s operations, the climate work has been made more concrete, which, among other things, is reflected in the action plan that the 
organization was involved in producing.  
We are happy to see that our work with the 
climate targets during the year has resulted in great initiatives both in our production and management operations. It is impor -
tant that the climate-related work covers and involves the entire company and I am very happy about the engagement that the 
employees are showing in this issue. One example of these initia -
tives is the temporary market hall at Östermalmstorg in Stock -
holm, which has been completely recycled and has begun a new life as a padel hall and restaurant in Mölnlycke. Other examples 
are the optimization of materials efforts, which have resulted 
in a reduced carbon footprint in our new production and the 
textile collection close to our properties which has reduced the 
properties’ residual waste. Apart from the larger initiatives, we 
are continually implementing several selective measures, such as 
mounting small bird nesting boxes, insect hotels and beehives, to 
promote biodiversity. "
What can we expect in the sustainability field?
"The financial and capital markets impose clear requirements 
in the sustainability field, which we see, for example, in the up -
coming EU taxonomy and an increased focus on climate-related 
financial risks. In addition, we are preparing for the upcoming 
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), an updated 
reporting framework for corporate sustainability reporting. We 
welcome these frameworks and directives as they create clarity 
in the industry which increases transparency and enables com -
parisons."Recycling when market hall at 
Östermalm became a padel hall 
in Mölnlycke.
Green financing
Green bank loans and green bonds are used for  
financing our wind turbines, our environmentally certi -
fied properties and some properties that meet energy 
class B or better. All bonds that Wallenstam issues 
are green bonds, according to our green framework, 
which has obtained the highest rating, Dark Green. 
Green financing accounts for 27 percent of Wallen -
stam’s total financing.Wallenstam’s Ethics Council, composed of representa-
tives from the entire business, holds about four meetings 
annually. The Ethics Council is the body that works cen -
trally in the Group on continually advancing the Group’s 
anti-corruption work, and it conducts risk analyses in the 
area and proposes possible measures. The Ethics Council 
receives regular questions of an informational character 
that the Council answers. Most questions relate to what 
employees can give or receive, in other words, questions 
connected to business ethics and corruption. We provide 
information to all employees based on commonly asked 
questions. No cases were reported to the Ethics Council 
during the year where further investigation was required. 
Wallenstam also has a whistleblower function, which can 
be used internally and externally and is accessible via a 
link from Wallenstam’s website. One case was reported to 
our whistleblower function during 2021. However, this 
was not classified as a whistleblower case according to the 
current legis lation.
14 WALLENSTAM'S SUSTAIN ABILITY WORKGender equality
Affordable and clean energyDecent work and economic growthAgenda 2030
Wallenstam has prioritized five global sustainable 
development goals (SDGs) in the UN’s Agenda 
2030. Within these goals we are working in various 
ways with a number of different sub-areas in order 
to help reach the goals.
Gender equality and diversity
Gender equality and diversity issues are integrated 
throughout the organization and its working methods, 
where employers should work together with employees to 
achieve gender equality and diversity. During recruitments and in connection with development initiatives and setting 
of salaries, we strive to ensure that men and women have 
the same conditions. We shall work together to ensure an equal organization where discrimination on all grounds is 
prevented. Nevertheless, we need to maintain an ongoing 
dialogue about what gender equality, respect and diversity means in our company. Our Code of Conduct is clear that 
discrimination must not occur. Read more on page 41.
Every year, the Allbright foundation ranks how well 
listed companies are at promoting women to management team positions. In the year’s review of gender equality in 
Sweden’s listed companies, Wallenstam ended up in 16th 
place of the 320 companies in total that are ranked in the 
Allbright report.
Renewable energy
We are self-sufficient in renewable electrical energy 
through the electricity production in our own wind tur -
bines. In addition, we investigate and evaluate other tech -
nical solutions for sustainable energy production, such as solar energy and energy storage. During 
the year, the installation of solar cells on roofs 
continued on a larger scale and we have complet -
ed a carpark whose façade is clad in solar panels.Long-term sustainable financial position 
Long-term profitability is one of the basic requirements for us as a company and our owners want to see a return on 
the capital they have invested in the business. Through effi -
cient organization, climate and cost-efficiency in the entire 
operations and focus on locations with growth and strong 
demand, we can ensure long-term economic stability. This 
also means that we should generate a profit – profits that we can reinvest in the business.
Wallenstam is flexible in a volatile housing market in 
a way that provides assurance for our stakeholders. We mainly build rental apartments for our own management, 
which means that we take responsibility for the proper -
ties and the areas for a long time. By providing apartments 
for which there is great demand and profitable property 
development, we create value for our customers, society in 
general and also for the company’s employees and owners. 
Long-term plans and investments over time also create se -
cure jobs in production and management. Read more about how we work with our employees and customers in focus, on page 14, and page 15, respectively.
Wallenstam’s supply chain 
In our business, we utilize the services of more than 3,000 suppliers. Our Wallenstam Partners perform property 
care and maintenance, and we use building contractors 
in our new construction operations who in turn often use subcontractors. In addition, we buy goods and services, 
use the services of consultants and borrow capital through 
banks and other financial institutions. Our suppliers are usually domiciled in Sweden, but for instance, sourcing of 
construction material etc. also occurs in other European 
countries and in the rest of the world. 
WALLENSTAM'S SUSTAINAB ILITY WORK 15  Sustainable cities and communitiesWe aim for close and long-term collaboration, which 
means that we can develop together with our partners. 
As a client, we have both a responsibility and an opportu -
nity to demand good operational standards in the entire 
production chain. During procurement of contractors and 
during purchasing of services, the responsibilities of our 
partners are agreed in relation to business ethics, climate, the environment, working conditions, safety etc.
Urban development of safe and sustainable areas 
We aim to create safe and welcoming areas and prop-erties, that people want to live in, work in and visit. Both 
the physical environment and relationships with neigh -
bors and visitors in the area, influence tenants’ percep -
tions of security. In the work to increase security, we are implementing a number of initiatives in the day-to-day 
management as well as selective measures. One example is our collaboration with Huskurage, an organization which 
works proactively through neighborhood cooperation to 
prevent violence in close relationships. Another is the Wallenstam App, where our residential tenants can 
get to know and communicate with their neighbors, 
which contributes to greater security and together -
ness.
Global Compact 
Wallenstam has signed the UN’s Global Compact, 
which means that we support and work on the basis 
of ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, 
the precautionary approach, anti-corruption and 
taking of responsibility in relation to environmental 
issues.The Ethics Council is the body 
that works centrally in the Group 
on continually advancing the 
Group’s anti-corruption work, and it 
conducts risk analyses in the area 
and proposes possible measures.
Our renewable energy investments were initiated to 
increase control over our electricity expenses and our 
carbon footprint. In 2013, Wallenstam became the 
first property company in Sweden to be self-sufficient 
in renewable electrical energy which covers our own 
and our tenants’ consumption. Our 66 wind turbines 
are found from Jämtland in the north to Skåne in the 
south, and have an installed total output of 143  M W. 
Our high ambitions to be self-sufficient during all months mean that we shall meet our energy needs in 
the Group even during July when wind power produc -
tion in Sweden is at its lowest.
The wind turbines shall provide Wallenstam’s pro -
perties with renewable electricity and thereby make the management operations less sensitive to changes 
in the electricity price.
Operation and production
In total, we produced 353 GWh (417) during the year. 
We work actively on boosting our turbine uptime, in 
other words, minimizing the time that turbines do 
not generate electricity due to disruptions or 
planned stoppages – for example by carrying 
out maintenance work at times when there is 
no wind. During 2021, the uptime amounted 
to 97 percent. Wind power production is also 
continually optimized by various types of capac-
ity increasing modifications and upgrades, includ-
ing new software to improve production efficiency.
Electricity trading and prices
We still sell the electricity we produce to the Nordic 
electricity market and Wallenstam only purchases 
internally produced wind power for the Group’s total 
electricity use. We follow the development of the 
electricity price, handle hedging and sales of  
renewable energy certificates.Self-sufficient in renewable 
electrical energy
66
WIND TURBINES
Within the scope of our urban development pro -
jects, we want to create the conditions for safe com -
munities already during the projecting and zoning plan 
work. We can achieve this by planning premises in certain 
areas for various types of activities, such as offices, stores, 
geriatric and child care. We are developing our existing 
properties and carrying out activities in collaboration with 
our commercial tenants, the city and other organizations 
in society, with the aim of creating a vibrant inner city.
We actively participate in research and development 
within urban development, construction and manage -
ment, where we support and cooperate with, for example 
Tryggare Sverige and Johanneberg Science Park. During 
the year, we have also invested in Ferroamp, a company 
that develops new energy solutions to control the proper -
ties’ electrical systems. We currently use their installations 
and units in parts of our new production operations. Wal -
lenstam’s Innovation Council is working on creating new 
sustainable business opportunities and the results from 
our different projects become solutions in the housing of 
the future and town planning. 
16 WALLENSTAM'S SUSTAIN ABILITY WORKSocial engagement for reduced exclusion 
Wallenstam wants to fight social exclusion and to create 
city districts where everyone can feel safe and a sense of 
belonging. We believe that supporting youth activities in 
the local communities where we operate is a recipe for suc -
cess. For this reason, we participate in many local projects, 
which focus on helping young people to have active leisure 
time. Examples of our initiatives include letting premises for associations, creating meeting places and supporting 
activities for young people and particularly vulnerable 
groups. Cooperation and support mainly occur through sponsorship and through non-commercial collaborations, 
i.e. donations. On an annual basis, 1 percent of Wallen -
stam’s income from property management shall go to these
non-commercial collaborations.
Transports for tenants and employees 
We are looking at various mobility solutions in order to offer our tenants practical and environmentally-friendly trans -port solutions. For example, in the urban development project 
Kallebäcks Terrasser, those who live and work in the area 
have access to a car pool, bicycle pool with cargo and electric bikes and cycling studios, among other things. Both in new 
production and in certain existing properties, we are currently 
installing recharging possibilities for electric vehicles. Inter -
nally, we encourage the use of public transport to and from 
the workplace with the possibility of buying an annual travel 
card through a net salary deduction. Electric bicycles are available for shorter trips and we have a carpool with electric 
cars, which reduces the need for employees to take their own 
car to work. The use of electric pool cars generates much less 
carbon emissions. Transports are still a focus area in the busi -
ness plan 2019–2023, read more about our guiding principle Environment on page 16. 
Resources in focus 
Efficient use of resources is of critical importance and is a focus area in our current business plan. Resources consist of 
several elements, such as building materials, recycling and 
waste management.
In our new production operations, we worked with climate 
calculations during the year in order to streamline the use of materials. In our new construction project Bersån in Uppsala, we are reducing our carbon footprint through optimization 
of materials. The possibility of sorting waste is offered in our 
properties, both for residential tenants and for commercial tenants. One successful initiative is the textile containers 
Self-sufficient in renewable 
electrical energy
Transports to and from 
our construction sites   Scope 1: 
Combustion from own properties, 
facilities and vehicles.   Scope 2: 
Purchased energy for our properties.   Scope 3:
 
Emissions from:
»Purchased goods and services
»Property management and construction
»Tenants’ energy consumption and waste
Own and 
leased vehiclesOur business trips
Material and the 
construction 
processWhere do the Wallenstam Group’s emissions arise?
Emissions of 
refrigerants from 
refrigeration units 
and heat pumps
Own gas 
boilersTenants’ electrical 
subscriptions and 
waste
District heating 
and district 
cooling
The operations’ emissions are categorized as above.Property 
electricity
• Barn i Nöd
• Stadsmissionerna (the City Missions) 
in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Uppsala
• Räddningsmissionen
• Project Playground
• Barnens Ö
• BRIS• Stiftelsen Läxhjälpen
• Mitt Liv 
• Idrott utan gränser (Sports without borders)
• Pixbo Wallenstam
• Älta IF
• KFUM Uppsala basketSOME OF THE ORGANIZATIONS THAT WE COLLABORATE WITH:  
WALLENSTAM'S SUSTAINAB ILITY WORK 17  which we, in collaboration with Human Bridge are placing 
at our properties, where we collected 29 tons of textiles 
during the year. Read more on page 16.On an annual basis, 1 percent of 
Wallenstam’s income from property 
management shall go to non-
commercial collaborations.Climate action
tion since 2006. Such an installation usually contributes 
to a reduction in consumption by tenants of 10–25 percent 
following a running-in period. Wallenstam is also driving 
developments for a lower climate and environmental im -
pact through different collaborations and initiatives. For 
example, we support the government initiative “Roadmap 
for fossil-free competitiveness – the Heating industry,” and we also collaborate with Mälardalen University, which 
conducts research and innovation for energy-efficient con -
struction and housing.
There are several programs and certification systems  
for buildings’ climate and environmental impact in the  
market, such as Green Building and Miljöbyggnad  
(“Sweden Environmental Building”). At present, seven of our residential properties are certified according Miljö-
byggnad Silver rating. It was decided during the year that our ambition is to ensure that all new production is en-
vironmentally certified.
The temporary market hall at Östermalmstorg in Stockholm has been dismantled 
during the year and was transported away to begin a new life as a padel hall and 
restaurant in Mölnlycke, Gothenburg. The fittings and all materials have been  
reused, recycled or sold. This is a great example of a full-scale recycling project.
Drive t he development f or reduced c limate  
and en vironmental i mpact 
We place great importance on limiting climate and 
environmental impacts in our production, operation and 
management of properties. The property sector, both in 
terms of new construction and management, accounts for 
a large proportion of the total carbon footprint in society. 
This means that it is a prioritized area for Wallenstam 
both from a climatic and economic perspective. It is this 
carbon footprint that we are striving to reduce through our 
climate t argets.
In 2013, Wallenstam became the first property  com -
pany in Sweden to be self-sufficient in renewable electrical 
energy. We use metering and optimize the operation of 
our properties in order  to reduce consumption of  energy 
and resources and to create a good financial position 
with continuous improvements. Individual  electricity and 
water metering has bee n standard in our new co nstruc-
18 WALLENSTAM'S SUSTAIN ABILITY WORK Minimizing risks and optimizing op-  
portunities is an integrated part 
of our business. Through our risk 
management, we have been able to handle the challenges posed by 
Covid-19 during 2021. The effects of the pandemic are reflected, among other things, in the risks we describe relating to financing, interest rates, supply 
and demand and the economic situation.
Wallenstam’s employees participate in both the 
risk inventory and the preventative work. The risks are assessed based on harmfulness and probability, Risk management and opportunities
RISK MANAGEMENT AND O PPORTUNITIES 19  and are prioritized by Management and the Board. The 
work aims to develop strategies and measures to reduce 
the risks and optimize opportunities. This is ongoing 
work, which is continually developed and the company’s compliance function is responsible for the follow-up.  
All events cannot be foreseen. For this reason, part of 
our risk work is to be prepared for crisis management. We conduct regular drills of our crisis man-  
agement organization based on special guidelines and crisis checklists. This helps to ensure that losses to the operations and 
our stakeholders are minimized.20 RISK MANAGEMENT AND  OPPORTUNITIESRISK AREAS OPERATIONS
Partners
Description of risk
»Competition for contractors.
»That procurements are not conducted/agree-
ments not correctly entered into, which can
cause uncertainty about responsibility and
increased costs.
»That partners do not follow entered into
agreements or our Code of Conduct.
Description of opportunity
»Good collaboration, long-term planning, goodfinancial position and high quality.
»That we have secure and efficient processesfor purchasing and signing of contracts,
providing secure collaboration.
»Good business ethics and satisfactory
working conditions among contractors andsubcontractors.
Wallenstam’s management
 »Develop long-term relationships and well-established collaboration with contractors and
suppliers.
 »We have developed processes and templates
for procurement and purchasing, we bring in 
the right competencies to the process and at 
least two people always review tenders and
agreements before they are signed.
 »Information to and dialogue with contractors 
about required compliance with Wallenstam’s
Code of Conduct.
 »Project managers are highly knowledgeable
and very closely involved with their projects. 
Routines for follow-up of agreements and on-
site checks.
 »Routines for logbooks and ID checks etc. at workplaces. Spot checks at partners are per-
formed regularly.
 »Training and development of routines regarding
supplier checks.Description of risk
»Occupational accidents.
»Unpredictable events that result in increasedcosts, such as environmental factors, for
example substances in soil or leakage that
requires decontamination or areas of natural
value that need to be protected.
Description of opportunity
»Safe working environment without personal
injuries. 
»Good financial position and environmental
performance.
»Value growth through new construction pro-jects.
Wallenstam’s management
»Working environment plan is prepared earlyon and followed up during the entire project.
Building work environment coordinators are
appointed to ensure occupational safety in
the planning stage. In contractor agreements,
coordinators are appointed with equivalent
responsibility during the construction phase.
Sufficiently long time plans to avoid stress and
mistakes.
»Analysis of environmental risks during acqui -
sition of land, soil investigations during newconstruction and continual investigations of
environmental risks.
»Efficient organization of projecting, planning,procurement, construction and choice of
contractor.Production and management of propertiesWallenstam’s management
»Clear processes and templates for procure -
ments, purchasing and letting. Routines where
two persons shall jointly review and authorize
lettings and purchasing and also check tenders
and agreements prior to signing. Spot checks for
checking agreements. Focus on checking existing
contracts, for example unlawful subletting.
»An Ethics Council tasked with driving and moni -
toring the anti-corruption work at Wallenstam.Internal information and support through the
Ethics Council.
»Accessible whistleblower function.
»Internal transparency about side-line jobs andassignments that may affect interests.Anti-corruption
Description of risk
»Risk for corruption linked to allocation of
apartments/premises.
»Risk for corruption during procurements andpurchasing.
Description of opportunity
»Good control of business operations, credibility forbusiness partners and other stakeholders and
assurance for employees with clarity regardingrules and routines.RISK AREAS OPERATIONS
Employees
Description of risk
»Less confidence or attractiveness amongexisting and potential employees.
»Not to be able to recruit and retain employeeswith the right competencies and commitment.
»That employees do not live and act accordingto the company’s values.
Description of opportunity
»To be perceived as an attractive employer.
Possibility of recruiting employees with the
right profile and competencies.
»Development of employees and the company.
»To develop employees, the operations and the
brand based on strong common values.
Wallenstam’s management
»The guiding principle focused on employees isimportant for quality and satisfied customers.
Offer a good working environment, attractive
and market-related working conditions, health
and wellness training, skills development and
internal recruitment for new positions.
» The synthetic options scheme for employees,
which offers clear participation in the com -
pany’s development.
 »Recruitment is prioritized as a strategic area. The processes are being strengthened and HR
competencies shall always be engaged during 
recruitments.
»Regular employee surveys are a tool forimprovements, connected to the guiding prin -
ciple of an annual improvement in the Engage -
ment Index score, which is followed up during
the business plan.
»Introduction program with conference about
the company’s history, values, policies and
guidelines etc.
»Managers receive dialogue support regard -
ing values in the form of an annual leadershipconference, checklists and development
discussion templates.Opportunities and 
risks connected to 
the operations refer 
to matters that are 
related to our core 
business.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND O PPORTUNITIES 21  Description of risk
»Weak liquidity impedes in -
vestments and the ability to
meet payment obligations.Financing
Wallenstam’s management
»Proximity to the market and
the banks. Good relation-
ships with several lenders
provides good financing
possibilities.
»Financing is always secured
before new construction
starts, which eliminates the
risk of low liquidity.
»Focus on strong equity/
assets ratio and liquidity.
»Liquidity forecasts are up -
dated continuously with the
objective of optimizing cash
management.Description of opportunity
»Strong liquidity provides thefreedom of action to com -
plete approved investmentsand obligations.Description of risk
»That IT systems are attackedand the operations manipu-
lated or that information gets
into the wrong hands.
»That sensitive informationis circulated to the wrong
people.
»Non-compliance with legal
requirements.Information and IT security
Wallenstam’s management
»Continual work with security-  
enhancing measures sur -
rounding IT security, up-grades of firewalls, anti-virus
protection and systems,
anti-hacking tests, routines
for IT security etc.
»Policy and guidelines for
information security as well
as internal information and
training. Routines for infor-
mation sharing and handling.
»A Data Protection Officer
who works continually with
GDPR issues.Description of opportunity
»Well-functioning and fit-for-
purpose IT security for our
operations and that informa-
tion is handled securely.
»Increased administrativeefficiency due to IT security
routines.RISK AREAS OPERATIONS
22 RISK MANAGEMENT AND  OPPORTUNITIESRISK AREAS EXTERNAL
Wallenstam’s management
»Having properties in attractive locations
lowers the risk of falling values during an
economic downturn.
»Our new construction means less sensitivity tochanging property values, since we generate
surplus values in our construction, mitigating
the effects of a downturn. Profitability is also
ensured in the event of a change in market
conditions through high demands in relation to
return on invested capital.
»Self-sufficiency in renewable electrical energy
pro v ides lower price sensitivity in relation to
electricity.Economic cycle
Description of risk
»Weaker property values. Increased land prices.
»Lack of resources and increased costs.
Description of opportunity
 »Positive development in the value of our properties.
»Increased access to land and land allocations
as many other players do not have the same
long-term possibilities for investments during
an economic downturn.
Opportunities and risks connected to the external 
environment exist outside of 
our operations, e.g. in the form 
of changing market conditions. 
These are risks that we have 
little ability to influence in the 
short term, but which we must 
take into account in the plan -
ning of strategic development.Change in rental income, residential, 1% 12.1
Change in rental income, negotiable commercial contracts, 1% 1.2
Change in operating costs, 1% 5.7
Change in loan interest rate, 1 percentage point (annual basis) 125SENSITIVITY ANAL YSIS
RISK MANAGEMENT AND O PPORTUNITIES 23  SEK millionClimate
Description of risk
»Climate changes are expected to result in lar -
ger volumes of rainfall, heat waves, more pow-
erful winds, higher sea levels and increased
flows in watercourses. These phenomena can
impact our properties negatively.
Wallenstam’s management
»In connection with planning new construc -
tion, the possible consequences of a changingclimate are considered.
»In the properties that are located in vulner-
able locations, increased volumes of rainfall
are handled using pumps and check valves,
among other ways.
»We ensure that roofs and hardened surfaceson the properties can handle large amounts of
rain during a short period.
»In order to handle risks arising from increased
water flows, for example, collection reservoirs
are built in the form of stone cisterns under -
ground. Water protection equipment is alsoplaced in vulnerable locations in properties.
»Production of renewable energy results in a
lower global climate impact, which reduces
the risk of extreme weather in the longer term.Description of opportunity
»In the work that is being carried out to handle
our carbon footprint, there are opportunities
to make efforts that benefit our construction
and management operations.RISK AREAS EXTERNAL
Supply and demand 
Description of risk
»Lower demand, for example for commercialpremises, rental apartments or co-op apart -
ments.
»Protracted planning processes and a shortageof available land.
Wallenstam’s management
»Own and manage properties in attractiveareas, which are characterized by growth and
strong demand.
»Proximity and close relationships with tenants.
»Follow market trends and be prepared for
changes in demand.
»Flexible business model with the possibilityto convert and adapt supply, form of tenure
and conditions etc. in the event of changing
demand.
»Long-term planning and close collaborationwith municipalities and several concurrent
development projects.
»Land acquisition for the future in focus.Description of opportunity
»Heavy and stable demand for our products.
»Good access to land for new construction.
24 RISK MANAGEMENT AND  OPPORTUNITIESWallenstam’s management
»Continual monitoring of
the development of our
areas.
»Co-operation with the
municipality, other 
property owners,tenants and center
associations.
»Initiatives in coopera -
tion with tenants to
strengthen the attrac-  
tiveness of the inner city through events, offers,
accessibility, marketing
and communication etc.Infrastructure and 
urban development
Description of risk
»Changes and construc -
tion of infrastructure or
other matters that can
affect the attractive-
ness of our properties
negatively.
Description of opportunity
»Changes and construc -
tion of infrastructure or
other matters that can
affect the attractive-
ness of our properties
positively.RISK AREAS EXTERNAL
Wallenstam’s management
»Follow development ofissues concerning our
operations. Interpret
legal cases and regu-
latory changes that
may result in changed
conditions.
»Proactivity in order
to meet new require -
ments, practice andlaws.
»Comment on pro-posals, meetings with
decision-makers in
order to clarify the
consequences for the
property sector.
»Energy-efficientconstruction and self-
sufficient in renewable
electricity.Changes in laws and regulations
Description of risk
»Changes in laws, regu-lations and regulatory
requirements, for ex -
ample relating to theenvironment, design,
tax issues, charges etc.,
which result in increased
costs and additional
administration.
Description of opportunity
»Changes in laws and
regulations, which
result in reduced costs
and less administration.
Wallenstam’s management
»Loan portfolio of dif -
ferent maturities and
spread among various
forms of credit and
lenders. Choice of the
term for capital tied-
up is based on factors
such as pricing and
refinancing risk in the
capital market.
»Interest derivatives areused to diversify risk,
to protect the under -
lying portfolio and asa flexible means of
influencing the fixed
interest terms in the
loan portfolio.Interest rates
Description of risk
»Interest rate increasesthat result in higher
costs and a large
impact on profits.
Description of opportunity
»Long-term assurance
and control over
financing costs.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND O PPORTUNITIES 25   As an organization, we succeeded in changing 
over to a more digital way of working during 
the pandemic involving alternative forms of 
meetings. We chose not to close down our of -
fices entirely, however, we encouraged home Organization and employees
We are careful to maintain a work climate where consideration is shown to employees 
and to offer challenges that provide individuals with the opportunity to grow in their 
professional roles. About 270 employees work in the Wallenstam Group, who with great 
dedication contribute to the company’s development.
Training and development
Employee performance reviews are conducted to sup -
port career and personal development, follow up jointly-
established goals, gauge the work situation and plan future 
skills development efforts. Skills development occurs continually via external and internal training courses and 
through exchange of knowledge among colleagues. This, 
as well as challenges in the day-to-day work, are important elements of a motivating work situation. As far as pos -
sible, Wallenstam provides opportunities for advancement within the company, e.g. by announcing most vacant posi -
tions internally first. The development of the individual 
employee within the company is also promoted in other 
ways, for example through the exchange of experience in improvement projects with participants representing differ -
ent departments and regions.
Focus on health and wellness training
We attach great importance to the physical working envi -
ronment and health-promoting activities. There are excel -
lent opportunities for both group and individual training in fitness centers at each office, while health and wellness training is subsidized. In 2021, we have offered more group 
training outdoors, and since many have worked from working. Now we are adapting our offices in order to meet 
the future needs we see for Wallenstam’s employees and 
operations, for example with regard to working methods 
and the design of workplaces. We are creating additional 
social space for meetings and collaboration and more 
quiet rooms where it is possible to work undisturbed. The 
workplaces are ergonomically adapted with good lighting 
and soundproofing.
Attractive em ployer
We want to be able to offer a good and pleasant workplace, 
which offers employees the opportunity to develop and 
grow along with the company. Wallenstam works actively 
on offering good conditions and an excellent working 
environment and places great weight on competencies, per -
sonal attributes and qualities. Read more on page 14 about 
our guiding principle where the focus through our strong 
corporate culture, is on being an attractive employer and 
on improving our Engagement Index score every year.
26 ORGANIZATION AND E MPLOYEES
Many want to work for us! Despite 
the pandemic, we have been able to 
carry out many good recruitments 
and we have also accepted several 
interns. Helping with internships is 
important – it provides added value 
to our business and helps to ensure 
well-trained employees in our sec -
tor in the future.home, it has also been possible to participate in training 
sessions digitally. All employees are also offered regular 
occupational healthcare with the purpose of promoting 
continued good health. We have clear policies and routines 
in place to identify ill health among our employees.
Working for gender equality
At Wallenstam, women and men have the same condi -
tions. Gender equality initiatives based on several different 
aspects, for example during recruitments, development 
initiatives and setting of salaries, are an ongoing process, 
which we as a company are continually working to main -
tain and improve. In Allbright’s annual review of gender 
equality in Sweden’s listed companies, we were placed 16th  out of the 320 companies in total that were ranked in the 
Allbright report.
DISTRIBUTION WOMEN AND MEN
Proportion women Proportion men
The entire company 57% 43%
Middle managers 50% 50%
Group Management 50% 50%
Board of Directors 40% 60%
Values and Code of Conduct
The day-to-day operations are conducted on the basis 
of the Group’s core values; respect, commitment and 
progress. Overall, the work at Wallenstam is governed 
by policies, guidelines and instructions and by decision-making and authorization procedures, which are all 
important for clearly defining the company’s standpoints 
and working methods for the entire organization. The Code of Conduct is based on our core values and empha -
sizes the policies and guidelines that govern the Group in relation to employees, customers, suppliers and partners. The goal is to have an environmental, social and commer -
cial commitment in everything we do. We shall comply with laws and regulations, and apply responsible business methods, which are characterized by high business ethics 
and good business practice.
Improvement metrics
We conduct regular employee surveys to measure employ -
ees’ views of their personal work situation, the company and its management. Here we also continually follow up 
our Engagement Index score. The results are used as one of a number of tools for improvements in the company. Areas 
singled out in the surveys for Wallenstam were mainly con -
fidence in Management and a strong feeling of togetherness.
We also conduct evaluations where employees provide 
feedback to their manager based on a number of identified 
criteria which are important in the leadership at Wallen -
stam. The result is used as an individual development tool 
for the company’s managers.
ORGANIZATION AND EMPLOY EES 27 
 267 
PERSONS EMPLOYED
Wallenstam had 267 employees at year-end 2021. The majority 
are permanent employees, with a distribution of 57 percent 
women and 43 percent men. Approximately 30 percent of the 
employees are based in Stockholm, the rest are in Gothenburg. 
Wallenstam’s employees are covered by the collective bargain -
ing agreement with Fastigo.
8.7 years
IS THE AVERAGE LENGTH OF EMPLOYMENT
for permanently employed personnel at Wallenstam. Absence 
due to illness during the year amounted to 2.2 percent (2.4). 
Employee turnover during the year was 8 percent (7).
PERIOD OF EMPLOYMENT
0–2 years, 22% >10 years, 35%
6–10 years, 18% 3–5 years, 25%60– 50–59 40–49 30–39 –29Number of
AgeAGE DISTRIBUTION IN THE GROUP
020406080100
Women MenLetting, management and construction 
operations with a local presence
Wallenstam is organized into two regions: the Gothenburg busi -
ness area, and the Stockholm business area, which also includes 
the operations in Uppsala. Letting, property management and construction operations are conducted in each business area with Wallenstam’s own letting agents, managers and building project managers that co -
operate with external suppliers and contractors. This local presence enables close relationships with our customers and good know-ledge about the local property market, changes and business opportunities and provides the basis for understanding our cus -
tomers’ needs and businesses. This promotes commitment and drive, both in the organization as a whole and on the part of each employee. Our staff, specialized in e.g. finance, law, IT, person -
nel, information and market, supports our operations.Our customer service is organized as a central function within the company, which enables longer opening hours and a high level of accessibility for our customers who can reach us via the Wallenstam App, web, chat function, e-mail or cost-free phone 
call. Well-developed routines ensure that cases are handled in the best way and we report back to custom -
ers during the process. Follow-up and improved routines help us in our continual ambition to increase customer satisfaction.
Partner concept for property care
Property care and maintenance are services we procure from external suppliers through a well-developed partner concept, Wallenstam Partner. A common working method and having the 
Wallenstam logo on clothes and ID cards, creates recognition and peace of mind for the customer. Close collaboration, frequent part -
ner meetings and visits to buildings by our own property managers on a rolling schedule are important for assuring the quality of property care.
BUSINESS 
AREA 
GOTHENBURGCEO & STAFF 
FUNCTIONSCentral customer serviceREPRESENTATION GROUP MANAGEMENTREPRESENTATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Women Men
BUSINESS 
AREA 
STOCKHOLM
28   ORGANIZATION AND EMPLOYEE S WALLENSTAM’S GRI REPOR TING 29  Wallenstam applies Global Reporting Initiative, GRI Standards. The reporting follows the financial year and is  
published annually as part of the annual report. The latest GRI Report was published on March 23, 2021. This  
report describes how the Wallenstam Group has worked with sustainability issues during 2021. Wallenstam has defined the scope of the report as the areas referred to in the GRI index. A table is provided on the following pages of what GRI disclosures are reported and where information about the disclosures is found in Wallenstam’s  
reporting. This report has not been reviewed by an external party.  
The contact person with regard to the reporting and its content is Sustainabilty Manager Karin Mizgalski, 
karin.mizgalski@wallenstam.se.  
Information is provided below on the disclosures that are not reported elsewhere in the annual report.Wallenstam’s GRI-reporting
102-8: INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS
The average number of employees in 2021 amounted to 263. All of 
the Group’s employees are permanent employees, with the exception of 14 people who are probationary employees and 11 people who are employed on a temporary basis, for example in the form of work as a substitute. 1 person works part-time and is a permanent employee. Wallenstam had no significant variation in the number of employees during the year. Temporary employees are not reported, as Wallenstam uses temporary employees to a minor extent. 
102-11: PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE OR APPROACH
In many instances, Wallenstam acts in accordance with the pre -
cautionary approach, even though we do not use it as a concept in governance and strategies. For example, the precautionary approach is used in our work on identifying, analyzing and following up risks.
102-13: MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS
Wallenstam is represented in the governing bodies of Paradgatan  
Avenyn AB, Fastighetsägarna GFR, Fastighetsägarna Centrala Hisingen (FCH), (b)id Stigberget, Innerstaden Göteborg AB, Göteborg Citysamverkan ideell förening, Göteborg & Co and Johanneberg Science Park.302-1: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION
Unit 2018* 2019 2020 2021
Fuel consumption
T otal fuel consumption from 
non-renewable sources MWh 521 496 146 32
Heating oil MWh 379 353 146 -
Natural gas MWh 142 143 - 32
T otal fuel consumption 
from renewable sources MWh - - 116 257
Biogas MWh - - 116 257
Energy consumption
Electricity** MWh 41,280 37,889 37,074 45,178
Heating MWh 89,081 87,611 80,480 95,511
District heating MWh 88,560 87,115 80,218 95,222
Oil MWh 379 353 146 -
Natural gas MWh 142 143 - 32
Biogas MWh - - 116 257
Cooling MWh 557 425 259 239
District cooling MWh 557 425 259 239
T otal energy consumption,  
non-renewableMWh 49,983 47,395 42,719 47,288
T otal energy consumption, 
renewableMWh 80,934 78,531 75,094 93,640
T otal energy consumption MWh 130,917 125,925 117,813 140,928
The actual energy consumption, i.e., not climate-adjusted, has increased during 2021 compared 
to the previous year. This relates partly to the fact that we increased our holdings, resulting in in-
creased floor space and partly due to colder winter months in 2021 than the previous year, which meant higher district heating consumption. 
Heating per sq m climate-adjusted kWh 80.4 79.9 74.7 74.7
Own electricity production from 
renewable sources
Wind power MWh 337,880 367,246 416,696 352,908
Solar cell produced electricity MWh n/a n/a n/a 258201-1: DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED
The table only refers to operating activities. Changes in value are not included.
SEK million 2018* 2019 2020 2021
Economic value generated 
Revenues 2,877 2,652 2,876 2,589
Economic value distributed 
Operating costs -481 -497 -519 -561
Employee wages, benefits and pensions -192 -210 -212 -272
Interest payments to providers of capital -237 -223 -264 -259
Payments to government (property tax, VAT) -556 -717 -897 -640
Dividend to shareholders -7 -8 -14 -11
Community investments -583 -614 -162 -392
T otal economic value distributed -2,057 -2,269 -2,068 -2,135
Economic value retained 820 383 808 454
302-4: REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION*
Unit 2019 2020 2021
T otal reduction MWh 4,992 13,105 -10,011
Reduction electricity MWh 3,390 4,206 -3,898
Reduction heating MWh 1,470 8,601 -6,430
Reduction cooling MWh 132 298 318Refers to energy consumption in Wallenstam’s property holdings, not climate-adjusted, including 
wind power, district heating, district cooling, biogas and natural gas. Does not include tenants’ 
electricity consumption.302-3:  ENER GY INTENSITY
2018 2019 2020 2021
kWh/per sq m 110 105 96 107
GRI 303-5: WATER CONSUMPTION
2018* 2019 2020 2021
Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity
T otal water con-
sumption, m3n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a1,256,475 0.956*Base year 2018 – commences from start of the business plan 2019–2023.
** The electricity item includes electricity consumption relating to heat pumps.GRI 305: GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS CO2E***
Absolute value stated in tons CO2 and intensity value stated in kg CO2/sq m. 
2018* 2019 2020 2021 Comments 2021
Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity
Scope 1
305-1 DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS
Oil 102 0.086 94 0.079 39 0.032 - -We have replaced oil boilers with other heating alternatives.
Gas 30 0.026 29 0.024 5 0.004 7 0.005 During the year, we acquired a property, which was supplied with natural 
gas upon taking possession and then converted it to biogas.
Refrigerant leakage n/a n/a 809 0.677 561 0.457 370 0.281 We had less refrigerant leakage during the year.
Business travel by car n/a n/a n/a n/a 34 0.028 24 0.019 Refers to travel with electric cars owned by the company, leased by the 
company or owned by employees. 
T otal Scope 1 132 0.112 932 0.780 639 0.521 401 0.305 Overall, Scope 1 emissions have decreased compared to the previous 
year, both in absolute value and in intensity value.
Scope 2
305-2 INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS 
Electricity – Market-based ** - - - - - - - -Emissions are zero as all our property electricity is produced in our own 
wind turbines.
Electricity – Location-based ** 578 0.486 493 0.413 297 0.241 256 0.195 Emissions from location-based electricity shows the emissions that 
would have occurred if we had not had wind power as property electrici-
ty and are reported according to the Swedish electricity mix. In 2020, it was 5.67 g CO2 /kWh, source AIB. 
District heating 5,097 4.288 4,690 3.929 3,135 2.551 3,866 2.943 Emissions consist of two parts, amount of energy used and district heating suppliers’ fuel mix.
District cooling - - - - - - - -District cooling generates marginal emissions.
T otal Scope 2 (market-based) 5,097 4.288 4,690 3.929 3,135 2.551 3,866 2.943 Overall, Scope 2 emissions have increased compared to the previous 
year, due to increased energy consumption as a result of a colder year 
and increased floor space in our holdings. 
Scope 3
305-3 OTHER INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS
Materials in construction projects n/a n/a 29,118 221 8,397 185 7,100 205 This year, the calculations are based on manually collected data and on 
climate calculations. The intensity is reported per gross floor area (GFA).
Business travel by air, train and taxi n/a n/a n/a n/a 8 0.006 5 0.004 Travel restrictions due to the pandemic have meant that our travel has 
decreased significantly. 
Subtotal Scope 3 - -29,118 221 8,405 185 7,105 205 Emissions from our new production decreased in absolute terms 
compared to the previous year and the intensity value decreased in 
relation to the base year.
Transport of district heating fuel n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 558 0.425 Refers to district heating suppliers’ transportation of fuel. Emissions 
from incineration are reported in Scope 2.
T enants’ electricity consumption n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 74 0.11 Based on submetering in the properties where this is installed. In other cases, standard measures are used. The intensity is reported per weigh-
ted residential floor space.
T otal Scope 3 29,118 8,405 7,737 The intensity values are not aggregated as they are based on different 
types of floor space.  
305-5: REDUCTION OF GHG EMISSIONS
2018* 2019 2020 2021
Absolute 
reductionReduction 
per sq mAbsolute 
reductionReduction 
per sq mAbsolute 
reductionReduction 
per sq mAbsolute 
reductionReduction 
per sq m
Scope 1**** - - - - 292 0.26 531 0.48
Scope 2 - - 407 0.36 1,962 1.74 1,231 1.35
Subtotal Scope 3**** n/a n/a - -20,713 36 22,013 16
Reduction or increase is related to the base year 2018. New indicators for the year are not covered by GRI 305-5, but are reported when two years of data are reported (i.e. transport of 
district heating fuel and tenants’ electricity consumption).
406-1: INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN
No incidents of discrimination were reported in 2021.401-1: NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER
New employees 2021
AgeNumber of 
persons of whom 
women/men of whom in 
Gothenburg/Stockholm
Under 30 years 19 11/8 8/11
30-50 years 9 2/7 7/2
Over 50 years 1 1/0 1/0
T otal 29 14/15 16/13
*Base year 2018 – commences from start of the business plan 2019–2023.
** The electricity item includes electricity consumption relating to heat pumps.
***All data regarding CO2 in this table is based on inputs from suppliers, which 
report according to prevailing accounting standards. As data for the actual 
impact in 2021 was not available during preparation of this reporting, the 
heating data is based to a minor extent on estimated values based on the emission factors for the year 2020.
**** As regards 2018, Scope 1 was not fully reported and Scope 3 was not  reported at all, thus a reduction is calculated from 2019.405-2: RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN
The ratio describes the relationship between the agreed average salary of men and women 
and is calculated by dividing women’s salary by men’s salary, and men’s salary by women’s salary. The previous year’s figures are provided in parenthesis.
Women’s salary Men’s salary
Including Group Management, excluding CEO 88% (88) 113% (114)
Excluding Group Management 87% (88) 115% (114)
The proportion of wom en in property mana gement and operatio n amounts to 44 percent, the pro-
portion of women in project and business d evelopment amounts to 4 5 percent and the  proportion 
of women in business support amounts to 70 percent.
30 WALLENSTAM’S GRI REPOR TING306-2: WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD
2018* 2019 2020 2021 Comments 2021
Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity Absolute Intensity
Waste, for incineration and energy 
recoveryn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 3,415 5.12 The reporting is based on weight data in cases where available from municipalities. In other cases, the reporting is based on a Wallenstam 
average. The intensity value is reported per weighted residential floor space.Food waste, for composting and 
biogas productionn/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 260 0.39WALLENSTAM’S GRI REP ORTING 31  GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission
General Disclosures 
GRI 102:
General 
disclosures 2016102-1 Name of the organization cover
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 67
102-3 Location of headquarters 67
102-4 Location of operations 67
102-5 Ownership and legal form 76
102-6 Markets served 43-48
102-7 Scale of the organization 67, 72-73
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 40-42, 149
102-9 Supply chain 29-30
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Not applicable.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 5, 30, 149
102-12 External initiatives 25-32
102-13 Membership of associations 149
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2-5
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 25-32
102-18 Governance structure 133-138
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14-16, 26
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 41
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14-16, 26
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 26
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 26
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 76, 121 All units are covered by the GRI reporting.
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 26
102-47 List of material topics 26
102-48 Restatements of information Changed calculations have occurred regarding 2020 in disclosures 201-1 and 305-5.
102-49 Changes in reporting Expanded reporting: disclosure 302-1,303, 305-3 and 306-2.
102-50 Reporting period 149
102-51 Date of most recent report 149
102-52 Reporting cycle 149
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 149
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 149
102-55 GRI content index 151-152
102-56 External assurance 149 Index continues on next pageGRI content index
Transports to and from 
our construction sites   Scope 1: 
Combustion from own properties, 
facilities and vehicles.   Scope 2: 
Purchased energy for our properties.   Scope 3:
 
Emissions from:
»Purchased goods and services
»Property management and construction
»Tenants’ energy consumption and waste
Own and lea -
sed vehiclesOur business trips
Material and the 
construction 
processWhere do the Wallenstam Group’s emissions arise?
Emissions of 
refrigerants from 
refrigeration units 
and heat pumps
Own gas 
boilersTenants’ electrical 
subscriptions and 
waste
District heating 
and district 
cooling
The operations’ emissions are categorized as above.Property 
electricity32 WALLENSTAM’S GRI REPOR TINGGRI Standard Disclosure Page number Omission Agenda 2030 
SDGUN Global Compact
Principles**
Wallenstam Material T opics
Stable economy
GRI 103: Manage-
ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 1, 12-13 , 17, 25-29, 36-39
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 64-65, 71-73, 82-83, 117, 149
Anti-corruption 10
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 26, 28, 30, 35, 41
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 205: Anti-  
corruption 2016205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures26, 28
Sustainable materials 9
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 16, 25-26, 31-32, 150
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 305: Emissions 2016305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 150
Energy efficiency 8
GRI 103: Manage-
ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 16, 25-26, 29-31, 38
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 302: Energy 2016302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 149
302-3 Energy intensity 149
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 149
Water
GRI 103: Manage-
ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018303-5 T otal water consumption 149
Greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8
GRI 103: Manage-
ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 16, 25-26, 29-32, 38
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 305: Emissions 2016305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 150
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 150
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 150
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 150, see table GRI 305
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 150
Waste management
GRI 103: Manage-
ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 16, 26, 28, 31-32, 150 
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 306: Waste2020306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 150
Fair and decent employment 3, 4
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 14, 26-27, 29, 35, 40-42
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 401: Employ -
ment 2016401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 41, 149-150
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 103: Manage-
ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 14, 35, 40-42
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
Wallenstams Own Disclosure (WOD)WOD-1 Sick leave 40-41
Customer satisfaction
GRI 103: Manage-
ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 13, 15, 25-26, 29, 49-51 
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
Wallenstams Own Disclosure (WOD)WOD-2 Key conclusions of customer surveys 15
Diversity and gender equality 6
GRI 103: Manage-ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 14, 26-27, 29, 40-42
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 405: Diversity 
and Equal Oppor-  
tunity 2016405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 40-42, 84, 134
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 150
Inclusive business climate 6
GRI 103: Manage-
ment Approach 2016103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 14, 26-27, 29, 40-42
103-2 The management approach and its components — ” — 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach — ” — 
GRI 406: Non-  
discrimination 2016406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 150GRI content index, cont.
Principle 3, Labour: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 
recognition of the right to collective bargaining.
Principle 4, Labour: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and 
compulsory labour.
Principle 6, Labour: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of 
employment and occupation.Principle 7, Environment: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to  
environmental challenges.
Principle 8, Environment: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environ-
mental responsibility.
Principle 9, Environment: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 
environmentally friendly technologies.
Principle 10, Anti-corruption: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 
including extortion and bribery.** UN Global Compact PrinciplesWallenstam AB (publ) identity no. 556072-1523  
info@wallenstam.se www.wallenstam.se 
Telephone +46 031 20 00 00
Gothenburg:
SE-401 84 Gothenburg
Visiting address Kungsportsavenyen 2
Stockholm:
Box 19531, SE-104 32 Stockholm  
Visiting address Birger Jarlsgatan 64
Photo pages 1, 19, 48 Pixprovider
Photo pages 3, 7, 8–11, 20, 28 top, 44–45, 59 Dan Holmqvist  
Photo pages 4, 23 bottom right, 27 bottom, 52 NRSstudios  
Photo pages 14–15, 25 bottom left, 25 bottom right, 27 top,
33, 36–37, 40, 42 top & bottom Carolin Freiholtz/Omelettfoto 
Photo page 23 top Jonas BergPhoto pages 28 bottom, 30 Per Pixel Petersson Photo page 32 Felix GerlachPhoto page 42 middle Johnér BildbyråPhoto page 47 bottom Henrik NeroVisualization images: pages 16, 58–59 Zynka Visual  
pages 57 top, 60–61 Liljewall Arkitekter page 57 bottom Brunnberg & Forshed ArkitektkontorUnattributed photos/images are Wallenstam’s own. 
Production: Newsroom
Translation: David Murphy, Word of MouthRepro and printing: Billes TryckeriPrinted on: cover Edixion 300 g, insert Edixion 120 g.CALENDAR
Annual General Meeting  A pril 26, 2022
Interim report Q1  A pril 26, 2022 
Interim report Q2  J uly 14, 2022
Interim report Q3  O ctober 25, 2022
Information regarding Wallenstam’s business  
operations, financial reporting and press releases 
can be found at www.wallenstam.se.