www.WesternMidstream.com
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT2020-2021
Advancing EnergyTMWestern Midstream Partners, LP (Western MidstreamTM or WES) is committed to building an 
organization that delivers sustainable value to all of our stakeholders by cultivating a strong 
culture of responsibility and rigorously managing key environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) issues. In this, our second ESG report, we demonstrate tangible actions to strengthen 
our ESG performance, enhance our reporting, and position our approach to sustainability 
and responsible operations as a foundational part of our success as a company. As we refine 
our approach, we seek to deliver reporting and performance that is best-in-class among 
midstream service providers. 
We are committed to strengthening our performance and expanding our reporting as we 
further develop as a standalone midstream enterprise.Welcome
2020 ESG Highlights
1ST PLACE
FOCUSING ON PEOPLE
OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
CREATING SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTS
100%of our relevant facilities are supported by methane leak detection and repair (LDAR) 
programs
Joined the ONE Future Coalition and surpassed its 2025 
methane intensity targets for our sectors, achieving 0.05  
for gathering and boosting vs. a 0.08  goal, and 0.015 for 
processing vs. an 0.11 goalAnnounced plans to permanently retire 
two natural gas-fired compressor engines 
by mid-2024, eliminating 10,000 metric 
tons of CO2
Set goal to achieve nitrogen oxide (NOx) 
reductions by at least 800 tons over three 
years starting in 2022  
73%reduction in 
employee Total 
Recordable 
Incident Rate (TRIR) 
from 2018 to 2020for safety performance in our size class 
in the 2020 GPA Midstream Association's 
safety awards for the second 
consecutive year
56%of our senior leadership team 
members are female or racial/ethnic 
minorities
100% of new pipelines, compressor stations, 
and plants are evaluated to identify 
stakeholders and are subject to  
our community and landowner 
engagement process
100%
of our field-based contractors are 
assessed based on the scope of work 
provided for Western Midstream and 
on safety performanceAssisted the Energy Infrastructure Council and GPA Midstream 
Association in developing and finalizing its ESG Reporting 
Template in December 2020 and was one of the first five 
companies to adopt the templateAdded new ESG metrics to our internal bonus compensation 
program to strengthen our emphasis on safety, environmental 
performance, and employee participation in our social investment 
program
Established ESG Committee on the Board of Directors to 
oversee our approach to ESG issuesEstablished a new senior vice president role overseeing 
human capital management and diversity, equity, and 
inclusion (DEI) Message From Our CEO
Michael Ure 
President and Chief Executive OfficerSince our establishment as a standalone midstream company 
in early 2020, strengthening our ESG performance has been 
central to our organization – from the board room to our 
daily operations. As one expression of this commitment, 
we released our inaugural ESG report only 10 months 
into our first year. In this second report, we’re pleased 
to detail how we are advancing energy through our ESG 
management systems and outcomes.  
We recognize that climate change is one of the most 
pressing challenges of our times, and helping address it is 
central to our ESG efforts. As a midstream service provider, 
we help deliver essential energy and inputs that improve the 
quality of life across the globe. We believe that hydrocarbons, 
particularly natural gas, have a role to play in the vital transition 
to a clean energy future. As a company and a society, we must 
continue to drive down emissions across the energy value chain while 
identifying and implementing innovative new technologies and business 
models to further reduce emissions and advance the energy transition. 
At WES, we are doing just that. To provide superior midstream service, we focus on ensuring the reliability 
and performance of our systems, creating sustainable cost efficiencies, enhancing our safety culture, 
and protecting the environment. By thoughtfully designing, constructing, and operating our assets, and 
collaborating with regulatory agencies, environmental groups, and industry partners, we are reducing 
our own emissions and helping to find the best solutions to climate-related challenges. For example, our 
direct-from-wellhead pipeline infrastructure and other operational innovations minimize emissions for our 
company and our customers. In 2020, we joined ONE Future – a group of oil and gas companies committed 
to reducing methane intensity across our value chain to 1% or less – and surpassed the group’s methane 
intensity goals for our sector. To further advance our emissions efforts, in 2020 we appointed a VP of 
Operations Services and Sustainability to help identify commercial opportunities to minimize and offset our 
carbon footprint. 
Throughout 2020, we maintained our commitment to safety. For the second year in a row, we received the 
GPA Midstream Association’s first-place award for safety performance in our size class and outperformed 
the industry safety average. We accomplished this while keeping our employees safe during the pandemic 
by implementing a COVID-19 Mitigation Plan, including social distancing and masks, elevated cleaning 
protocols, health screenings and testing, and remote work for as many employees as possible. While we're 
proud to be a leader in our peer group, we continue to challenge ourselves to continuously improve and 
cultivate a culture of safety.
I am also proud of our efforts to build a diverse and inclusive team, which we believe is essential to our 
success as a company. Currently, women and racial and ethnic minorities comprise 56% of our senior 
leadership team, and, in 2021, we established a senior leadership position to guide our diversity, equity, and 
inclusion efforts.
To drive ongoing progress on all ESG issues, we are continuing to strengthen our governance and 
accountability systems. For example, in 2021, we established a Board ESG Committee to oversee our 
ESG efforts and strategy. We expanded our employee compensation incentive program to include safety, 
environmental, and community engagement metrics. We also hired a dedicated Director of ESG to 
coordinate efforts across our technical teams and continue to advance our disclosures.
I am incredibly proud of how much the WES team has achieved in our first two years as a standalone 
company. Through unprecedented challenges including a global pandemic, significant oil and gas price 
shocks, and extreme weather events, it was clearer than ever that our ESG focus is key to our strength, 
resilience, and ability to innovate and succeed. Table of Contents
Message From Our CEO 
Our Approach to ESG 
About Western Midstream 
About Our Report
Environmental Management  
Climate Change and Emissions 
Biodiversity and Surface Impacts 
Waste Management 
Release Prevention and Response 
Water Management
Our Employees 
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) 
Contractor and Supplier Management 
Community and Landowner Engagement 
Tribal Engagement 
Community Investment 
Governance 
Employee and Contractor Safety 
Asset and Pipeline Integrity 
Emergency Preparedness 
SecuritySupporting Sustainable Environments
Focusing on PeopleIntroduction
Operating Responsibly
Appendix
Appendix 
Performance Data Table 
Independent Assurance Statement 
GRI Index 
SASB Index 
TCFD Index5  
6 
10 
11 
14 
15  
22 
24 
25 
27 
 
32 
34 
38 
40 
47 
48 
52 
58 
64 
67 
70 
  
72 
73 
80 
83 
87 
88
5
4Our Environmental, Social, and Governance Strategy  
We are focused on 
supporting our workforce 
and communities. When they 
succeed, so will our company.We are committed to 
responsible environmental 
stewardship by implementing 
industry-leading environmental 
protection practices and 
technologies while safely 
operating and maintaining our 
assets.
We are committed to operating 
responsibly. We are developing 
intentional and robust 
governance systems that 
support our ESG efforts and our 
commitment to keeping our 
workforce, communities, and 
the environment safe.Supporting Sustainable Environments
Focus areas: 
• Governance
• Employee and contractor safety
• Asset and pipeline integrity
• Emergency preparedness and response
• Security
• Community safetyFocus areas: 
• Our employees
• Diversity, equity, and inclusion
• Contractor and supplier management
• Landowner and community engagement
• Tribal engagement
• Community investmentFocus areas: 
• Environmental management
• Climate change and greenhouse gas 
emissions (GHG)
• Non-GHG emissions
• Biodiversity and surface impacts
• Release prevention and response
• Water managementAt Western Midstream, we are committed to gathering and delivering oil, gas, and water 
products and gathering produced water responsibly, while reducing our environmental footprint 
and contributing positively to our workforce and local communities.
Our ESG efforts are organized around three strategic pillars: supporting a sustainable 
environment, focusing on people, and operating responsibly.
Focusing on People
Operating Responsibly
Our Approach to ESG
6 7Ensures landowners and communities are 
engaged in company decisions and operations, 
receives and responds to community member 
concerns, works collaboratively with governmental 
agencies and lawmakers to develop best practices 
in the communities where we operate, and works 
with industry on public policy issues.Investor Relations and Corporate 
Communications
Finance, Audit, Tax, and TreasuryHSSE
Human ResourcesLand, Regulatory Affairs, and Community 
RelationsOperationsSupports external affairs and transparent reporting 
and jointly manages ESG issues with our HSSE 
team.
Identifies and mitigates financial risks.Supports the development and implementation 
of ESG and HSSE programs across the company, 
evaluates risks, and supports the integration of 
mitigation strategies.
Develops and trains employees on compliance 
with ESG programs.Ensures that the company operates in a safe and 
environmentally responsible manner guided by 
federal, state, and local regulations, and internal 
policies and procedures.ESG Committee of the Board of Directors
ESG Steering Committee
Cybersecurity
Operations Services and SustainabilityWe take a coordinated approach to managing ESG issues across the company, with all 
functions supporting our efforts. Accountability for ESG management and performance 
starts at the top of our organization as our Board of Directors is kept current on key 
operational and regulatory activity, including health, safety, security, and environment (HSSE) 
risk management and performance metrics. Additionally, operational, financial, and ESG 
(including safety) performance results achieved during the year impact annual executive and 
employee compensation. 
An internal management  team composed of 
executives and key functional leaders working to 
drive progress on the company’s commitment to 
near- and long-term sustainability performance.Reviews the company’s strategy, policies, and 
practices, oversees management’s monitoring 
and enforcement of these policies, advises the 
Board on the company’s sustainability goals 
and commitments, and oversees the company’s 
voluntary ESG reporting.
Protects systems, networks, and programs from 
digital attacks. 
Strengthens sustainability of our operations by 
commercializing opportunities that reduce our 
carbon footprint.Integrated ESG Management
8 9In developing our second ESG report, we assessed the ESG issues and impacts that are most 
important to our business and stakeholders. The assessment incorporated perspectives from 
a range of stakeholders, including investors, sustainability and industry-focused nonprofit 
organizations, community members, and environmental and social activists. We will continue 
to expand and update our analysis in the future.
The content of this report is also based on leading ESG reporting standards and guidelines, 
including those developed by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB), the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), 
and the Energy Infrastructure Council (EIC) ESG Reporting Template. Our responses to the 
EIC template are posted on our website. We provide an index of our reporting against these 
standards and guidelines on page 83.
We strive to provide transparency regarding the role ESG plays in how we manage our business 
and measure our success. Throughout the report, we have indicated the scope and time 
frame of reported data. While much of the content relates to the 2020 calendar year, we have 
included historical data as well as information on programs implemented during 2021 when 
possible. Our system integrations with Anadarko and Occidental limit our ability to separate out 
reporting data on our ESG efforts prior to 2020. However, as we fully separate our systems and 
develop our procedures, we will expand our reporting of data and management processes.About Our ReportThe WES Way defines our values and our 
foundational principles that drive our culture 
and how we operate. 
Our core values of servant leadership, 
empowerment, customer focus, belief in 
each other, integrity, and positive work 
environment continue to provide a crucial 
foundation that guides all of our actions. 
Our performance review process takes into 
account an employee's demonstration of 
these values in their annual performance 
rating. Our foundational principles of 
operational excellence, superior customer 
service, and sustainable operations assist with 
decision making and encourage long-term 
thinking. 
Positive Work 
Environment
Belief in  
Each OtherCustomer  
FocusEmpowermentServant  
Leadership
Integrity
Core 
ValuesWestern Midstream is a publicly traded, master limited partnership formed to own, develop, 
acquire, and operate midstream assets. We are engaged in the business of gathering, 
compressing, treating, processing, and transporting natural gas; gathering, stabilizing, and 
transporting condensate, natural gas liquids (NGLs), and crude oil; and gathering, transporting, 
and disposing of produced water for our customers. 
We operate or own equity interests in assets in Colorado, Texas, Utah, Wyoming, New Mexico, 
and Pennsylvania, including approximately 17,000 miles of petroleum and natural gas pipelines 
and about 100 gathering, treating, and processing facilities.*  About Western Midstream
23
71
11.6 K~GATHERING 
SYSTEMS
PROCESSING 
& TREATING 
FACILITIES
PIPELINE 
MILES**
We transport affordable energy and important industrial feedstocks that improve many 
aspects of human life. We are committed to responsibly delivering the energy –  and 
other inputs – the world needs while reducing our environmental footprint and positively 
contributing to local communities. 
Western Midstream became a standalone midstream organization in early 2020, when it 
executed agreements with its exploration and production parent, Occidental, to support both 
companies’ intent to operate as separate entities. Prior to Occidental’s acquisition of Anadarko 
in August 2019, Western Midstream served as the midstream organization for Anadarko. 
Today, as we continue to advance the WES culture, procedures, and policies in our second year 
as a standalone company, we are committed to responsibility, and to careful and proactive 
management of ESG issues.
* As of December 31, 2020
** Operated pipeline only, as of December 31, 2020In 2021, WES created the Core Values 
Awards to encourage and recognize 
employees who exemplify our core values.WES Way
10 11At Western Midstream we illustrate our commitment 
to responsible environmental stewardship by 
implementing industry-leading environmental 
protection practices and technologies, striving for 
continuous performance improvement, and holding 
ourselves accountable through transparent reporting 
on our progress. Potential impacts on the environment, 
as well as human health and safety, are top priority in 
our formal risk HSSE Risk Management Program (see 
page 56).
In this section:
 ▶Environmental management
 ▶Climate change and emissions
 ▶Biodiversity and surface impacts
 ▶Waste management
 ▶Release prevention and response
 ▶Water managementSupporting Sustainable Environments
Highlights:
 ▶Achieved 7% reduction in NOx emissions from 2018-2020
 ▶100% of relevant Western Midstream sites have leak 
detection and repair (LDAR) in place
 ▶123 pre-construction surveys completed for natural and 
cultural resources in 2020
 ▶Joined ONE Future and surpassed its 2025 methane 
intensity goals for our sectors in 2020
 ▶Collaborated with EIC and GPA Midstream Association to 
develop the first-ever Midstream ESG Reporting TemplateSUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTS WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTEnvironmental Management 
We follow comprehensive environmental management processes 
which are governed by our overall Health, Safety, Security, and 
Environment (HSSE) Policy. This policy outlines and requires 
compliance with internal protocols, external regulations, and 
industry best practices for avoiding, minimizing, and mitigating 
environmental impacts. 
We support compliance through a comprehensive environmental 
management system that includes programs on Air Quality, 
Avian Protection, Site Reclamation, Incident Management, Spill 
Prevention, Storm Water Management, and Waste Management. 
Our management system defines roles and responsibilities 
and the ultimate work authority for each area, specific job 
responsibilities for relevant workers at different levels and 
functional teams, and requirements and processes for each area. 
Our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer oversees 
our environmental performance, which is a coordinated effort 
among all employees of WES. Climate Change and Emissions 
At Western Midstream, we believe that climate change is one of the 
most critical challenges of our time. We are committed to doing 
our part to maximize the opportunities that come from the global 
energy transition. 
As noted in our financial disclosures, we recognize that climate 
change poses potential risks for our operations. Still, we believe 
that it provides an opportunity for us to further reduce our 
emissions, operate more efficiently, and assist in the transition to 
a lower-carbon economy. Climate-related risks and opportunities 
for our industry and our business include potential changes in 
regulatory requirements, changes in energy demand and consumer 
preferences, and risks to various operations from changes in weather 
patterns and extreme weather, among others.
Natural gas, one of the primary products we transport for our 
customers, plays a vital role in the global transition to cleaner energy 
sources. Natural gas not only provides a lower-emission bridge fuel 
for generating electricity and powering industry, it also supports the 
use of renewables by providing a versatile, quick-to-ramp-up fuel 
source for times when wind, solar, and other alternative fuels are not 
available or cannot meet peak demand. 
In addition to supporting the expanded use of natural gas, which 
helps address greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change, 
we are reducing emissions from our operations and across the oil 
and gas value chain (described below) to help address climate-
related risks. To this end, we appointed a new Vice President of 
Operations Services and Sustainability to pursue commercial 
opportunities that focus on offsetting and minimizing our carbon 
footprint. 
We support effective environmental regulations that help drive real 
performance improvements and level the playing field for companies 
like WES that seek to operate responsibly. In 2020 we supported a rule 
proposed by the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment 
(CDPHE) that would require emission reductions from existing natural 
gas-fired engines with more than 1,000 horsepower. We worked with 
the state to help ensure real emission reductions will be achieved while 
providing a flexible way for companies to achieve those reductions. As a 
result, we expect to achieve approximately 800 tons of NOx reductions by 
May 2024. We also plan to permanently and voluntarily retire two natural 
gas fired compressor engines, which will eliminate 10,000 metric tons 
of CO2e by May 2024. See page 56 for more on our approach to political 
engagement.Supporting Effective Emissions 
Regulation
Brian Binford 
VP, Operations Services and SustainabilityIt's imperative we have a strategic, 
comprehensive, and credible approach 
as we address our position in the energy 
transition. Establishing a leadership role 
to focus on sustainability is fundamental 
to our success in advancing our ESG efforts 
and commercializing sustainability enhancing-
opportunities for WES in the long term.
14 15SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTS WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT
We are working to reduce all emissions across our operations as part of our commitment to 
protecting the environment and operating safely and efficiently, while responsibly transporting 
our customers’ products to market. Our HSSE Policy identifies a clear commitment to 
environmentally responsible operations and guides our Air Quality Program.  
Our primary operational GHG emission sources are carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4), 
and our primary non-GHG emissions are carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrous oxide (NOx) – all of 
which can be emitted from our equipment during the gathering and boosting, and processing 
segments of our business. 
Since 2012, Western Midstream has been a leader in minimizing and eliminating emissions 
across our operations, initially as a business unit of our former parent companies and now as 
a standalone enterprise. We do this by going above and beyond regulatory requirements and 
implementing forward-looking operational designs. Below are some examples of how we 
minimize and eliminate emissions. 
Reducing leaks and fugitive emissions – We follow stringent, infrastructure-specific leak 
detection and repair (LDAR) processes for pipelines, compressor stations, and processing 
facilities that meet or exceed regulatory and industry standards. We assess pipelines, 
compressor stations, and processing facilities with optical gas imaging cameras at least 
quarterly to identify potential leaks. When a leak is identified, we perform and then verify 
the effectiveness of the repairs. We also perform aerial pipeline flyover leak surveys multiple 
times a year and have voluntarily participated in third-party aerial leak surveys at many of our 
gathering and boosting and processing facilities in both the DJ Basin and Delaware Basin. 
At gas processing plants, we utilize photoionization detectors and audio, visual, and olfactory 
assessment (AVO) to identify potential leaks.Zero-emission pneumatic devices – 
Where possible, we use instrument 
air instead of natural gas to actuate 
pneumatic devices at our facilities, 
which eliminates natural gas venting 
associated with actuating. Our facilities 
in the DJ Basin operate instrument    
air-driven pneumatic devices.
Low-emission dehydration units – 
We commonly recycle waste gas back 
into the process to further reduce 
emissions from gas dehydration units.
Reducing emissions from stored oil –  
Before transporting to market, we 
stabilize oil to remove entrained NGLs 
and either pump the oil directly into a 
pipeline or store it in floating-roof tanks 
until it can be pumped into a pipeline. 
The gas removed from these facilities 
is piped to our natural gas processing 
facilities and then moved to market via 
pipeline. These practices significantly 
reduce emissions associated with the oil 
storage process.Electric powered compressor stations and gas processing plants – We have utilized electric 
driven compression across multiple assets since 2006 and currently operate more than 350,000 
hp in electric motors. Additionally, our last five gas processing plant trains have installed 
electric powered compression, which have the capacity to process a total of 1 BCF per day.
Using pipelines to reduce emissions –  Our comprehensive oil and water pipeline 
infrastructure replaces trucking and rail transport of products, further reducing emissions 
by eliminating “load-out emissions” that occur when oil and produced water are transferred 
from a storage tank to a truck, as well as emissions from the transport trucks themselves. Our 
pipeline transport systems also reduce the potential for road safety incidents and releases 
associated with trucking.
Reducing flaring – We aid in the reduction of flaring across our value chain by making sure 
our natural gas pipeline infrastructure, compressor stations, and processing facilities have the 
contracted capacity and reliability to receive and transport our customers’ products. Employees 
at our operations control centers use automated remote sensing equipment to continuously 
monitor our gathering and processing infrastructure to help ensure system availability, which 
reduces the need to flare natural gas. When feasible, we install closed-loop process vessels and 
systems to capture gas and transport gas to market instead of flaring product.
Reducing venting – We periodically shut down compressors and other equipment to safely 
perform maintenance or other mechanical work. To minimize our emissions footprint during 
the depressurization and maintenance preparation process, we adhere to the following best 
practices:
• Coordinate maintenance schedules to simultaneously service as many pieces of equipment 
as possible
• Return high-pressure process gas to low-pressure process systems to minimize or eliminate 
the need to release gas into the atmosphere or flare
• Route gas to a combustion device if there is no feasible or safe vapor-return processElectric-powered 
compressor stations and 
gas processing plants
WES began installing 
electric driven compression 
as early as 2006. Today, we 
operate more than 350,000 
horsepower of electric driven 
compression, returning 
more than 22 billion cubic 
feet of gas to the market 
each year that would 
otherwise be combusted 
in natural-gas-driven 
compression
Using pipelines to reduce 
emissions 
In 2020, our DJ Basin 
pipeline infrastructure 
facilitated the elimination of 
approximately 13,000 tons 
of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO2e) emissions, 4,200 
tons of Volatile Organic 
Compounds (VOCs), 500 
tons of NOx, and 1,800 tons 
of CO. 
Direct-to-Producer Pipeline Connections – Our Centralized Oil Stabilization Facility (COSF) in 
the DJ Basin, located in Colorado, and Regional Oil Treating Facilities (ROTF) in the Delaware 
Basin, located in Texas, allow us to gather high vapor pressure oil directly from producer sites. 
This design eliminates the need for our customers and WES to install un-stabilized oil storage 
tanks and to flare associated hydrocarbon vapor, leading to emissions reductions across the 
upstream sector. Reducing Direct EmissionsMinimizing Emissions and Energy Use
16 17SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTS WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT
Heat exchange technology – To process gas and stabilize 
oil, our facilities require heating and cooling, which use 
significant amounts of energy. We install heat exchangers 
throughout our processing plants to efficiently reuse 
previously generated heat, as well as refrigeration, which 
reduces overall energy use.We consistently look for ways to lower emissions from our operations through partnerships 
with various organizations. As we examine our entire lifecycle of carbon emissions, we are 
forming strategic partnerships to assist in our journey of emissions mitigation to develop key 
performance indicators for measuring our progress. Through partnerships with academia, 
technology companies focused on emissions management, and industry groups that 
share best practices, we are collectively accelerating the transition to a lower-carbon energy 
economy.  
ONE Future
In 2021, Western Midstream joined the ONE Future Coalition, which is focused on 
demonstrating an innovative, performance- and science-based approach to managing 
methane emissions. ONE Future’s goal is to achieve an average rate of methane emissions 
across the entire natural gas value chain that is 1% or less of total (gross) natural gas production 
and delivery. ONE Future has also broken down this 1% goal into sub-goals for each sector of 
the oil and gas industry. As a member of ONE Future, we have committed to meeting the 
sector goals relevant for our operations by 2025. As shown in the table below, we have already 
achieved the 2025 Methane Intensity target.
The Environmental Partnership Goal Western Midstream’s Progress
Implement non-gas plant leak detection 
and repair programs at all sites by 2022 and 
follow up leak detection with timely repairGoal accomplished: 100% of relevant 
Western Midstream sites have LDAR in 
place; in 2020, 99.7% of our assets were 
found to be free of leaks during LDAR 
surveys
Replace, remove, or retrofit high-bleed 
pneumatic controllers with intermittent, 
low-, or zero-emitting devices by 2023In progress: Removed 31.8% of high-bleed 
pneumatic controllers in 2020The Environmental Partnership
We are also a founding member of The Environmental Partnership , a voluntary oil and natural 
gas industry partnership committed to continuously improving the industry’s environmental 
performance. The Environmental Partnership has developed specific environmental best 
practice programs for participating companies to phase into their operations. These programs 
were selected based on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) emissions data and 
designed to reduce further emissions of methane and VOCs using proven, cost-effective 
technologies. Member companies commit to implementing these programs within a given 
time frame. Our progress against these commitments is provided in the table below. SegmentONE Future Intensity  
2025 TargetWES 2020 Methane 
Intensity
Gathering & Boosting 0.08% 0.05%
Processing 0.11% 0.015%of the electricity we purchased 
in 2020 was sourced from 
renewable power generation*
 25%
Western Midstream is partnering with academic institutions to 
develop innovative methods that will help reduce environmental 
impacts and share best practices within the industry. For example, we 
are currently working with Colorado State University on the following 
studies to help improve industry performance on asset integrity and 
reduced methane emissions: 
• Response Protocol for Large Underground Methane Emissions – Researchers are assessing 
underground natural gas pipeline leakage, in particular the potential for gas migration and 
buildup under different environmental conditions and how first responders can assess these 
risks as part of their decision-making processes.
• “C3” Colorado Coordinated Campaign – Researchers are comparing three different 
approaches for measuring methane emissions from oil and gas operations in the DJ Basin, 
including a modeling simulation technique, a ground level measurement approach, and 
aircraft-based measurements with the goals of better understanding the role of large 
emitters and identifying opportunities to construct better inventory models of basin 
emissions.
• Advancing Development of Emissions Detection – Researchers are assessing reliable, 
repeatable testing methods for leak detection and quantification (LDAQ) with the goal of 
developing testing standards that can be adopted by regulators and oil and gas operators.  
Partnering with Universities to Advance Environmental Performance in the Midstream 
IndustryAchieving Emission Reductions Goals
Lower-energy, gas-powered field equipment – When 
possible, we use cleaner, pipeline-quality gas instead of 
unprocessed field gas to help our equipment run efficiently 
to reduce energy use and emissions. 
Solar-powered operations – We use solar panels to power 
our auxiliary equipment in many locations throughout our 
operations.Reducing Energy Use and Indirect Emissions
* Calculated using the electricity usage by state and the state's renewable energy resource mix published by EPA in 2019 e-GRID 18 19SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTS WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2019-20 ESG REPORT
We are continuing to advance our standalone data collection systems as we complete the 
separation from our former parent companies. For example, in 2020 we independently tracked 
and reported Scope 1 emissions from direct operations and fleet. We plan to report expanded 
year-over-year emissions data in the future. 
Also new in 2020, Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. provided limited assurance of our 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data for 2020. See page 80 for the assurance statement.
* This data includes scope 1 GHG emissions reported under the U.S. 
EPA GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule, part 98, subparts C-II. Carbon dioxide (CO2 )               Methane (CH4 )                  
Nitrous Oxide (N2 O)~7%
~93%~.06%2020 Scope 1 GHG Emissions by Gas Type 
(MmT CO2e)*  GHG Emissions Performance
Annual Natural Gas Processing Plant 
Emissions (thousand short tons)2018 2019 2020
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) 1.75 1.65 1.63
Sulphur oxides (SOx) 0.11 0.16 0.18
Carbon monoxide (CO) 1.03 0.89 0.81
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 0.98 0.89 0.88
Particulate matter (PM) 0.06 0.06 0.06
Hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) 0.07 0.08 0.08Non-GHG Emissions Performance*  
*Data includes gas processing plant annual emission totals. It is based on actual emissions for plants that 
completed annual emission inventories and allowable emissions for plants that did not.Units 2019 2020
Scope 1Gross GHG  emissions * MmT CO2e 3.58 3.57
Gross Carbon dioxide (CO2)* MmT CO2e 3.27 3.31
Gross Methane (CH4)* MmT CO2e 0.30 0.26
Gross Nitrous oxide (N2O)* MmT CO2e 0.003 0.002
Flared, vented, and fugitive 
emissionsMmT CO2e 0.81 0.75
Fleet emissions MmT CO2e 0.008 0.009
Scope 2 Gross GHG Emissions Total** MmT CO2e 1.12 1.28
GHG 
IntensityScope 1 GHG Intensity*** mt CO2e / MMSCF 1.48 1.51
Scope 1 Gathering and Boosting 
GHG Intensity***mt CO2e / MMSCF 1.84 2.08
Scope 1 Natural Gas Processing GHG 
Intensity***mt CO2e / MMSCF 1.04 0.92
Scope 1 + Scope 2 Gross GHG 
Intensity****mt CO2e / BOE 0.0072 0.0071GHG Emissions
* Includes GHG emissions reported under the U.S. EPA GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule, part 98 subparts C-II and corporate fleet emissions.  
  
** Calculated using EPA e-GRID emission factors based on electricity usage location.
  
*** Includes scope 1 GHG emissions reported under the U.S. EPA GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule, part 98 subparts C-II.   
 
**** BOE calculation based on the Energy Infrastructure Council (EIC) and GPA Midstream ESG Reporting Template guidance. 
Jillian Yamartino  
Air Quality AdvisorWe work closely with our engineers to 
design facilities that not only enable 
WES to reduce its footprint, but also enable 
our producers to reduce equipment at the 
wellsite. It's a win-win across the board.
20 21SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTS WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTWe responsibly manage our impact to the environments in which we operate by respecting 
biodiversity and  protecting sensitive habitats and ecosystems like rivers, wetlands, and 
nesting areas for raptors. All new projects undergo intensive assessments for the presence of 
natural and cultural resources that could be affected 
by our operations. We prioritize avoiding rather 
than mitigating any impact to the environment 
throughout the entire project lifecycle. In 
addition, third-party biologists monitor 
activities at each major stage for all new and 
major maintenance projects, providing 
consultation on how to best minimize 
our impacts on these sensitive species, 
including stopping work on the project 
if necessary. Any work that may 
potentially impact sensitive species 
or land must be approved by a 
vice president or higher-level 
executive.
We operate in several areas where 
endangered or other sensitive 
species, such as migratory birds, 
may reside. Some examples from 
our operational areas include Preble’s 
meadow jumping mouse habitat in 
Colorado, the Texas hornshell mussel in New 
Mexico, the hookless cactus in Utah, or the 
sage grouse in Wyoming. We seek to avoid all 
impacts to endangered and sensitive species and 
their habitats. We collaborate with state and federal 
wildlife management agencies to meet or exceed all 
relevant regulations.
All employees and contractors are instructed to stop work and report the location of any 
sensitive species they discover to our HSSE team, who will develop plans to avoid impacts. For 
example, work may be delayed until nesting birds have fledged and left the area. If an impact 
cannot be avoided, we work with third-party biologists and regulatory agencies to develop 
mitigation plans that meet or exceed regulations and permitting requirements.Biodiversity and Surface Impacts 
*Pre-construction Natural Resource Surveys include surveys for 
endangered species, crucial wildlife habitat, nesting raptors, 
birds protected under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, cultural and 
archaeological resources, and paleontological resources. The number 
of pre-construction surveys and HDD pipe installations has decreased 
over the past three years due to a decrease in construction activity.  Planning and Design Phase
• We undertake internal and third-
party assessments to identify potential 
environmental and cultural impacts in the 
vicinity of planned infrastructure prior to 
any construction or maintenance activity. 
These surveys, which exceed regulatory 
requirements in most of our operating 
locations, include:
• The presence of endangered species and 
their habitats
• Migratory birds and mammal corridors
• Sensitive lands including vegetation, 
wetlands, water crossings, current or 
historical tribal lands
• Other culturally sensitive sites, historic 
viewsheds, and paleontological resources
• We reroute or revise project plans and/
or timing to avoid or mitigate impacts 
identified in planning assessments
Construction Phase
• Use third-party inspections if operating 
near sensitive environmental resources, 
like wetlands or nesting areas
• Survey for potential impacts to 
endangered species or their habitats 
during construction activities
• Halt projects if changes arise regarding 
endangered or sensitive species or 
habitats, such as discovering nesting birds
• Use horizontal directional drilling (HDD) to 
avoid wetlands, water courses, and other 
sensitive habitats while installing pipelines 
and buried electrical lines
• Implement erosion and sediment control 
throughout construction to prevent 
degradation to water quality near the 
project.Operations Phase
• Reclaim any lands disturbed during 
construction or operations, including soil 
stabilization and establishing vegetation 
to meet pre-construction conditions or 
landowner specifications
• Monitor reclamation activities to confirm 
sites are reaching established goals, and 
correct any issues such as noxious weeds 
or erosion
• Resurvey for potential impacts to 
endangered species or their habitats 
during maintenance activities
Decommissioning Phase
• Follow industry best practices and 
regulations for end-of-life pipeline and 
facility integrity
• Remove above-ground equipment 
and remediate any impacts to soil or 
groundwater, if relevant
• Reclaim disturbed lands, including 
soil stabilization and replanting to pre-
construction condition or landowner 
specifications
• Resurvey land reclamation activities to 
confirm the completion of revegetation 
goalsPre-construction Natural Resource Surveys*
2018 448
2019 376
2020 123
feet of HDD 
pipeline to avoid 
sensitive habitats 
in 2020 
12,478
Western Midstream’s operations are not located in, or adjacent to, 
any protected areas or areas designated as critical habitat for U.S. 
threatened or endangered species, as defined by the U.S Fish and 
Wildlife Service and Endangered Species Act.Lifecycle Approach to Safeguard Endangered and Sensitive 
Species and Lands
22 23SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTS WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT
We have implemented rigorous Spill Prevention and Response and Incident Management 
Programs to protect the environment as required by our HSSE Policy. These programs include 
stringent protocols, policies, and engineering controls to prevent releases and respond quickly 
and effectively to any releases that do occur. All of our applicable facilities have Spill Prevention, 
Control, and Countermeasure (SPCC) plans, which are reviewed at least annually and updated 
periodically as necessary.
Liquids and gases that might be released include crude oil, condesate, refined products, 
natural gas, and natural gas liquids (NGLs) carried through pipelines and processing facilities.Release Prevention and Response By installing oil pipeline systems 
in the DJ Basin, Maverick 
Basin, and Delaware Basin, we 
eliminated at least 32.8 million 
miles driven by oil transport 
trucks in 2020 alone.Waste Management
We aim to minimize the production of both hazardous and nonhazardous waste from our 
operations by implementing programs to reuse and recycle across our supply chain. When our 
operations generate waste, we follow plans outlined in our HSSE Policy to properly manage the 
waste for disposal. All waste disposal and recycling facilities are audited by a third party prior 
to use and are periodically inspected by WES HSSE personnel. When recycling or reuse is not 
feasible, we categorize our waste before disposal to meet all state 
and federal requirements. The Waste Management Program is 
reviewed during our periodic internal HSSE audits which review 
performance against requirements and assess if our current 
standards and processes should be updated to better align with 
industry best practices.
Whenever possible, we recycle materials used in our operations 
including engine exhaust catalysts and used oil. 
We follow a range of best practices to minimize the production of waste, including:
• Prior to beginning a project, we carefully plan material ordering to minimize the generation 
of waste.
• We return any unused product or material to vendors when possible to facilitate reuse.
• We relocate and reuse equipment between assets, when reuse complies with internal and 
external requirements and standards.
Recycling Equipment During Decommissioning
WES started the decommissioning processes for our Third 
Creek Gathering System and associated facilities in the 
DJ Basin in 2018. As part of the process, WES recycled 
more than 650 gross metric tonnes of materials instead of 
sending it to a landfill. We also sent materials to a salvage 
company to refurbish and reuse parts.  
Minimizing Liquid Waste
WES finalized an agreement in 2021 to use a third-party 
liquid recycling facility in our DJ Basin operations to 
help reduce the amount of liquid waste that we would 
otherwise send to a landfill. The recycling facility extracts 
and recycles water recovered from liquid waste streams 
and sends the remaining solids to a landfill. This process 
reduces total quantity of waste to landfill, reduces the 
costly solidification of liquid waste, and eliminates the 
risk of liquid waste leaching in landfills. The facility is also 
centrally located to WES operations, thereby reducing 
trucking milesOur DJ Basin, 
Wyoming, and Utah 
operations have 
recycled more than 
60,000 gallons of 
used oil in 2020
Preventing Releases
Preventing the release of any potentially harmful substances is our top environmental priority. 
We use a comprehensive monitoring and avoidance system to identify and stop potential 
releases. For example, employees at our Tactical Operations Center and local operations control 
centers remotely monitor equipment, including tank and pipeline pressure levels, and we can 
shut down much of our infrastructure remotely if alarms are triggered. 
We install secondary containment around all containers holding 55 gallons or more of 
chemicals and process fluids. We conduct periodic third-party inspections to confirm SPCC 
plans accurately reflect onsite equipment and to ensure oil storage containers are in proper 
working order.
Where feasible, we install engineering controls and processes that eliminate the potential for 
releases to occur. In our DJ Basin, Delaware Basin, Maverick Basin, and Southwest Wyoming 
assets, we have installed pipeline systems to transport oil instead of using trucks. Pipeline 
systems eliminate potential spills or releases that may be caused by human error while 
manually transferring oil from one vessel to another. The additional reduction in truck traffic 
removes trucks from driving millions of miles on our roadways, further reducing the potential 
of an incident during transport.  
24 25 24SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTS
barrelsReleases by Volume from Gathering and Boosting and Processing Segments
Liquid Hydrocarbon*  
Produced Water**  
Other Releases***
2,410       180          9 1,095       91           16
All releases greater than 1 barrel (bbl), not including release volumes that are contained in impermeable secondary containment.
*Hydrocarbon includes crude oil, condensate, NGLs and natural gas products.
** Produced water releases from the Gathering and Boosting and Processing segments.  The saltwater disposal system produced water releases are 
reported on page 29 and page 74 .
*** “Other” includes releases for all other materials than categorized as hydrocarbon or produced water that are required to be reported to an agency. 
See the Performance Data Table on page 73 for full release data.SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTS
  1,461        77          97
2018 2019 20203,000 
2,500 
2,000 
1,500 
1,000 
500 
0In the event a release occurs, we follow our Incident Management Program to report and 
control the release, remove released material, and remediate impacted soils or groundwater. 
All releases are tracked in our Incident Management System and reported to the appropriate 
regulatory agency as required.  
Releases are categorized by actual and potential severity, according to our Environmental 
Incident Severity Table. Incidents are investigated on varying levels, determined by 
incident severity, to identify a root cause. We analyze incident trends on a monthly basis 
and communicate investigation findings, corrective actions, and lessons learned to our 
management teams. Our fully developed Emergency Preparedness and Response Program 
includes response plans that detail the use of specialized release-response support services that 
we can activate when notified of a release (see page 67). We recognize and respect the critical importance of water and water ecosystems. We endeavor 
to protect these resources as we plan, construct, operate, and decommission projects. We use 
a limited amount of fresh water for hydrostatic testing of pipelines and equipment, amine-
treatment processes in processing plants, cooling in facility operations, and drilling and 
completing of wastewater-injection wells. Thus, fresh water consumption is not a significant 
environmental impact in our operations. Our primary potential water impact stems from the 
disposal of produced water, most of which we gather and dispose of for oil and gas production 
customers. Produced-water disposal pipelines and facilities transport and remove hydrocarbon 
products and other sediments from the produced water and re-inject the produced water 
through permitted disposal wells in compliance with applicable regulations. Water Management
Hydrostatic Testing Water Discharge
In 2020, we installed a new gas pipeline in our DJ Basin operations to move gas through 
our compression and treating system. Once constructed, we filled the pipeline with 
40,000 barrels of high-pressure water to test that there are no leaks along the line. 
For this project and nearly all other hydrostatic testing projects, we obtain a discharge 
permit from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) to 
return this water back to the environment. The permit not only ensures that the water 
discharged to the ground either meets or exceeds state requirements, but also keeps it 
out of a water treatment facility or landfill. Release Response
Charles Chase 
Environmental ManagerOur goal is ultimately to prevent releases. We are heavily 
focused on how we respond if incidents occur – through 
emergency response training, regular drills, established 
procedures, and best management practices – to help 
ensure our people and the public are safe and potential 
environmental impacts are mitigated.
26 27SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTS WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTWe share the public's concerns about the potential for induced seismicity 
from water disposal operations. We follow robust screening processes during 
the disposal well planning phase to avoid seismic hazards. Our planning 
processes include mapping faults, identifying offset wells, avoiding areas with 
a history of seismic activity, and incorporating TexNet seismic activity data.We transport the majority of our customers’ produced water to disposal 
wells via pipeline as opposed to trucks. Our extensive network of permanent 
underground water pipelines significantly reduces release risks and enables 
us to reduce trucking-related emissions, improve road safety, and minimize 
road degradation associated with trucking. To further reduce the risk of 
releases, we require our water-gathering systems to abide by the same 
stringent, pipeline-integrity requirements that we mandate for our oil and 
gas pipelines (see page 64).
Before disposal, we store water in above-ground tanks with release-
prevention mechanisms and secondary containment liners, which reduces 
release risks, emissions, and wildlife impacts compared to open storage 
ponds.  
WES’s Delaware Basin water disposal pipelines and facilities system capacity 
is approximately 1.2 million barrels per day. Release prevention is a top 
priority for this system, but in the event a release occurs, we follow the same 
Incident Management Program to report and control the release, remove 
released material, and remediate impacted soils or groundwater (see page 
25 for details on our release response programs.Our primary potential water impact stems from the operation of our 
saltwater disposal system. As a natural byproduct of oil and natural gas 
production, produced water must be recycled or disposed of to maintain 
production. Produced water disposal systems remove hydrocarbon products 
and other sediments from the produced water and re-inject the produced 
water into designated geologic zones utilizing permitted disposal wells in 
compliance with applicable regulations. 
Western Midstream operates 782 miles of produced-water pipeline and 37 
disposal wells, with associated water treatment facilities, in our Delaware 
Basin asset, and one water treatment site in our DJ Basin asset. We 
understand the risks associated with the volume and corrosivity of the water 
we transport. To mitigate these risks, we follow industry-leading engineering, 
design, and operational practices for produced water transportation and 
disposal.
In 2021, we drilled four new disposal wells. In all cases, we went above and 
beyond standard well drilling and engineering practices including through 
the following: 
• Performed extensive well siting and location reviews, including reviewing 
existing active and inactive wells in the area before selecting a location.
• Geologists and other technical experts planned the specific well-injection 
zones to help ensure proper well control; this practice is traditionally 
only used for production wells, demonstrating our commitment to risk 
mitigation.
• Used an extra layer in our casing design for well integrity and zonal 
isolation by using a three-string casing design; most other operators use 
a two-string design.
• Minimized our drilling pad footprint to reduce impact to surrounding 
area.
• Selected high-quality drilling crews, who passed our HSSE screening 
process prior to selection and were well-control certified; in addition, each 
crew member was certified for hydrogen sulfide (H2S) safety.
• Oversaw entire drilling operations process through the use of a 24/7 
onsite safety supervisor.
• Used water-based mud to drill the well.
• Continuously monitored real-time casing pressure data to remain within 
permitted values and prevent cross contamination.
Saltwater Disposal System Releases
Volume2019 2018 202040
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
08,000
7,000
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
Count
* All releases greater than 1 barrel (bbl), not including release volumes that are contained in impermeable 
secondary containment. 
** Produced water releases from saltwater disposal pipelines and associated facilities. Produced water 
releases from Gathering and Boosting and Processing segments are reported on page 26 . Managing Our Saltwater Disposal System Responsibly
Avoiding Induced Seismicity
barrels
number of releases
28 29Focusing on People
In this section: 
 ▶Our employees
 ▶Diversity, equity, and inclusion
 ▶Contractor and supplier management
 ▶Landowner and community engagement
 ▶Tribal engagement
 ▶Community investmentAt Western Midstream, we know that our business 
succeeds when our people succeed. Our employees 
and contractors provide their talents and time – 
collectively more than six million hours in 2020 – to 
deliver our products and services while keeping one 
another, our communities, and our environment 
safe. We seek to serve the communities in which 
we operate through our presence, working to 
understand and address community concerns, and 
investing in community needs.
Highlights:
 ▶Established Senior VP, Human Capital Management and 
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, a new senior leadership role 
overseeing DEI
 ▶56% of our senior leadership team members are female 
and/or racial or ethnic minorities
 ▶25% of our Board of Directors are female
 ▶92% of new hires in 2020 were local residents, living within 
a 50-mile radius of the jobsite
 ▶100% of our field-based contractors are assessed based on 
the scope of work provided for Western Midstream and on 
safety performanceFOCUSING ON PEOPLE WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTOur employees are our most important resource. We work to support 
them with growth opportunities, comprehensive benefits, and an 
inclusive and fulfilling work environment in which every employee 
knows they are valued and integral to the success of the company.Our Employees 
We facilitate employee professional development at all levels of the 
company. We encourage employees to discuss individualized career 
development plans with their supervisors, and we are developing a 
formal process for career development and succession. As part of a new 
performance review process announced in 2021, employees are setting 
personalized annual goals to work toward throughout the year.
We operate in a highly regulated industry, in which many safety and other 
trainings are required. However, in 2020, 22% of our mandatory employee 
trainings were above and beyond regulatory requirements. In addition 
to our safety program and compliance and ethics training program 
(described on page 58-62 and page 55), we provide a range of optional 
skill building and development training on topics including cybersecurity, 
leadership and management competencies, and diversity, equity, and 
inclusion.
In 2021, we hired a Training and Competency Advisor, and we are 
implementing an extensive online resource library to help develop and 
upskill our employees. Beyond in-house training, WES has a Tuition 
Reimbursement Program to support our employees’ continuing 
education. Over the course of 2020, nine employees participated in the 
program, with the company compensating about $35,000 in associated 
fees. 
Voluntary turnover 4.7%
Involuntary turnover 1.1%
Total turnover 5.8%2020 Employee TurnoverWe offer competitive compensation packages, including base pay, 
merit increases, an annual bonus program, and incentive-based 
awards. We also offer comprehensive benefits by providing a range 
of health insurance options, as well as matching retirement and 
health savings account contributions. All regular full-time and part-
time employees working 20 hours or more per week are eligible for 
benefits.
In addition, we offer a wide range of programs to help foster work-life 
balance and support working families. For example, many employees 
are eligible for a work schedule featuring a half-day of work on 
Fridays. In addition, employees benefit from a generous paid time-off 
program. Parents receive six weeks of paid time off after childbirth 
and adoption, and birth mothers receive an additional eight weeks 
of paid time off. We also offer paid bereavement and military leave. 
Additionally, we provide backup child care solutions, financial support 
for adoptions, and an employee assistance program with direct 
access to trained specialists who help employees and their families 
address personal issues including mental health, parenting and 
family challenges, and financial and legal issues.
In 2020, we expanded these benefits, adding a new WES wellness 
program that provides tools and incentives related to fitness, weight 
management, smoking cessation, and healthy lifestyles.Building WES's Culture from the Ground Up
Since separating from Occidental in December 2019, 
much of our efforts in 2020 were spent on building 
the WES workforce and culture – transferring more 
than 1,600 personnel to the standalone organization, 
establishing separate systems and processes, and 
creating an entrepreneurial culture unique to WES. 
All employees are required to complete a range of 
training including compliance, ethics, and safety to 
further support a cohesive focus on these key issues and 
enhance the effectiveness of our operations. Employee Turnover
We track employee turnover 
as an important measure 
of our success in engaging, 
developing and retaining 
employees.Supporting Our EmployeesDeveloping Our Employees
32 33FOCUSING ON PEOPLE WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT
FOCUSING ON PEOPLE
We are proud of our commitment to diversity 
in recruiting, hiring, developing, compensating, 
and promoting employees. Since becoming an 
independent company in 2020, we have continued 
to build out our DEI program. 
We recently developed a senior leadership position 
overseeing DEI – Senior Vice President, Human 
Capital Management and Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion – who will lead our continued expansion 
of DEI programming and training across the 
organization, including formal employee training 
and advancing our commitment to DEI.
All employment decisions are made without regard 
to sex, race, color, religion, national origin, citizenship, 
age, disability, marital or veteran status, sexual 
orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, 
genetic information, or any other legally protected 
categories. This includes providing reasonable 
accommodation for employees’ disabilities or 
religious beliefs and practices.
We do not tolerate harassment in the workplace, 
including verbal, physical, or sexual harassment. 
Employees are encouraged to report incidents, 
such as this, to their supervisors or through our 
anonymous hotline.
56% of our senior leadership 
team members and 30% of other 
managers are female or racial/
ethnic minorities
Percentage
Total Employees (1,023) 100%
Total Male 82%
Total Female 18%
Total Racial or Ethnic Minority 27%
Management: Male 82%
Management: Female 18%
Management: Racial or Ethnic Minority 14%
Management: Female, Racial or Ethnic 
Minority30%
Nonmanagement: Male 82%
Nonmanagement: Female 18%
Nonmanagement: Racial or Ethnic 
Minority30%
Under 30 Years Old 12%
30-50 Years Old 70%
Over 50 Years Old 18%Employee Diversity*
Percentage
Male 75%
Female 25%Board of Director Diversity
* As of year-end 2020. Employee diversity data includes both 
office- and field-based direct employees.Throughout my career, I have been blessed to work for 
companies and with individuals who were willing to give 
me an opportunity. Importantly, there were people who 
took a personal stake in providing me with guidance 
and coaching because they believed in my ability. I am 
fortunate to work at WES, a company that has those 
same opportunities that were afforded to me, and I invest 
into others as so many did for me.
Charles Griffie 
Senior Vice President, Operations & Engineering 
 
Mr. Griffie was awarded National Diversity Council’s Top 100 Diverse Leaders in 
Energy and 2021 Most Influential African Americans in Business.
Percentage
Male 66%
Female 33%
Minority 22%
Minority or female 56%Senior Leadership Team DiversityDiversity, Equity, and Inclusion
3434 3535FOCUSING ON PEOPLE WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTExtended paid time off – In December 2020, the government ended expanded paid medical 
leave for COVID-related isolation and quarantine. To support our employees and protect the 
health and safety of our workforce and communities, WES has extended COVID-related paid-
time-off through the end of 2021, offering an additional 80 hours of paid leave to personnel 
concerned with close contact and/or who developed side effects from the vaccine.
Mental health benefits – Recognizing the various stressors related to the pandemic, we 
regularly engaged our employees with information, guidance, and tools to support safe 
practices and emotional well-being. For example, we developed a dedicated health page 
on our intranet to provide employees with a single access point to COVID-19 and mental 
health resources. This site hosted 310 unique visitors, and received 979 page views since it 
was published in 2020. We also offered confidential, one-on-one discussions with health and 
human resources professionals, as well as up to eight complimentary sessions (per issue) 
through our engagement with our employee assistance program provider. 
Vaccine information – As vaccines became available for our workforce, we actively 
communicated updates, providing up-to-date information and targeted communications 
about vaccine eligibility in each of the states where we operate.
Supporting local and women-owned businesses – Throughout the pandemic, we sought 
opportunities to support our suppliers and local communities, in addition to our own 
employees. For example, as part of our safety protocols, we expanded daily cleaning practices 
at all facilities. We procured these expanded services specifically from local, women-owned 
businesses for our Delaware Basin buildings. In addition, WES partnered with Hand Made 
Things, a woman-owned business based in New Mexico, to order more than 2,000 reusable, 
hand-sewn facemasks. See page 49 for more on how we supported local communities during 
the pandemic. We have been committed to supporting our employees throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, 
while maintaining the continuity and safety of our operations. 
We built a comprehensive response in the spring of 2020 and quickly evolved our approach as 
new information became available and new challenges arose. Our first priority, as always, was 
the health and safety of our workforce. We developed and implemented a COVID-19 Mitigation 
Plan based on Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and state health guidelines. 
We elevated our cleaning protocols, reduced shared spaces, purchased masks for all personnel 
to be used when social-distancing measures were not possible, and provided work-from-home 
support to facilitate remote working. Our response also included these other key elements to 
support our workforce: 
Harold Hartley 
Operations SupervisorThe pandemic stressed us all in so many ways. One major 
obstacle was staffing shortages related to potential COVID 
exposure and quarantining. During these challenging times, 
our plant family came together to help one another and our 
customers alike. We all pitched in to keep operations running 
smoothly and safely, which meant stepping into jobs outside 
of our day-to-day responsibilities but that we were qualified to 
do. For example, both our facility foremen and I backfilled facility 
maintenance and operations positions at times. The collective ‘rolling 
up of our sleeves’ ensured that WES operations remained online when 
it mattered most.
Making the Benefits of Remote Work Permanent
As we transition from COVID-required remote work to a post-pandemic world, we are 
maintaining the benefits that a remote work option provides for employees and the company. 
Moving forward, we will continue to offer a weekly rotational schedule, which allows a 
portion of employees to work remotely, while others collaborate in the office. We believe this 
hybrid approach will support work/life balance – including childcare responsibilities – while 
fostering productivity. It also allows us to reduce the square footage of office space we need, 
reducing emissions from purchased electricity, heating, and cooling, as well as from employee 
commuting.
Supporting Our Employees through COVID-19
36 37FOCUSING ON PEOPLE WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTContractors also have the same stop-
work authority as our employees and are 
protected by our no-retaliation policy 
when reporting incidents or concerns. 
We encourage contractors to report any 
concerns or violations on safety, ethics, 
labor, and other topics through our 
anonymous Compliance & Ethics hotline, 
which is promoted on the company’s 
intranet, in orientation meetings, and on 
posters at each work location. 
Our Supply Chain Management team 
is identifying ways to incorporate our 
commitment to advancing DEI and 
local economic development through 
our bid, procurement, and relationship 
management processes with contractors 
and suppliers.
To help ensure ongoing alignment 
with our standards, we audit existing 
contractors on ESG and other criteria at 
least every three years. If we discover a 
contractor is not meeting our standards, 
our HSSE group and Operations teams 
work together with the contractor to 
develop and implement improvement 
plans. Operations teams work in the field 
daily with contractors to actively assess 
performance and monitor improvement 
plans, which builds a stronger team 
commitment to safety and performance 
improvement. We monitor contractors’ 
performance on an ongoing basis to track 
the correction of deficiencies. If necessary, 
we have the ability to terminate contracts 
with contractors who are not able to meet 
our standards for ESG or other topics.
Moving forward, we are continuing to 
enhance our contractor management 
program by expanding proactive 
engagement and collaboration with 
contractors on best practices and lessons 
learned. We also continue to advance our 
approach to contractor screening and Standards Act, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act, and U.K. Bribery Act 2010. Additionally, 
contractors are required to have HSSE 
policies, programs, and procedures that 
meet or exceed our standards and be able 
to demonstrate that their employees and 
subcontractors are trained and competent 
to follow these HSSE policies. WES has 
adopted a Partner Code of Conduct that 
provides WES partners, suppliers, vendors, 
and contractors with guidance on how to 
adopt ethical practices and ESG and HSSE 
standards when working with WES.  The 
Partner Code of Conduct addresses minimum 
living wages, maximum working hours, and 
non-discrimination. It also emphasizes WES’s 
commitment to human rights, including 
zero tolerance for contractors involved in any 
type of forced labor, child labor, or corporal 
punishment.  Adherence to the principles of 
the Partner Code of Conduct is a requirement 
for contractors in WES MSCs.Third-party contractors play an important role 
in our industry. While we use contract workers 
mostly during the design and construction 
of new infrastructure, contractors remain 
essential partners throughout the operational 
life cycle. We define contractors as individuals 
employed by companies that perform services 
at Western Midstream sites. We define 
suppliers as employees of companies from 
whom we purchase equipment and other 
supplies or services that are not performed 
on our sites. We screen contractors based 
on environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) criteria depending on the type of work 
being performed on site. Our Vice President 
of Health, Safety, Security, and Environment 
(HSSE) oversees Contractor Management. 
We expect all of our contractors to adhere 
to our high standards for safety, fair labor, 
environmental, governance and other ESG 
and business topics. Our HSSE, Risk, Legal, 
and Operations teams undertake holistic, 
coordinated reviews of all new contractors 
to help ensure they meet our standards. We 
use an industry-wide, third-party database 
(ISNetworld) for these assessments and 
separately verify critical criteria, including 
training, qualifications, and certifications. 
Additionally, we require contractors to 
participate in a pre-qualification alignment 
process to help ensure they understand and 
can meet our expectations before beginning 
work on any of our sites. 
Our master service contracts (MSCs) 
explicitly require contracting companies 
to comply with all applicable laws related 
to anti-discrimination, anti-corruption, and 
affirmative action, which include the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Act, Fair Labor Contractor and Supplier Management 
We focus on buying 
products that are 
manufactured in the 
United States to support 
our national economy 
and the security of our 
supply base. About 
98% of our suppliers 
are based in the United 
States.auditing to include additional ESG criteria in our 
verification, validation, and evaluation processes.
We also consider safety, security, labor, and 
environmental criteria for suppliers that 
provide materials and services. We conduct 
more rigorous assessments for suppliers that 
fabricate critical equipment, such as tanks 
and pipelines, or provide critical materials like 
pipes. We undertake source inspections using 
third-party auditors to assess quality and safety 
management systems and performance at these 
supplier facilities. In 2020, all 570 of 
our new and existing 
field-based HSSE 
contractors were 
assessed on safety performance and on 
the scope of work provided for Western 
Midstream. 
100%
38 39FOCUSING ON PEOPLE WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTAt Western Midstream, developing trust 
within the community is a top priority. 
We earn this trust by operating responsibly 
and engaging proactively with community 
members. We develop an understanding 
of issues, address community concerns 
and interests, and maintain dialogue with 
residents throughout the lifecycle of our 
projects. Additionally, our relationship with landowners often extends from pre-project 
planning through to remediation and can involve intricate, nuanced land agreements to meet 
the unique nature of their respective land usage. Community and Landowner Engagement 
Pre-project community impacts assessments and mitigation – Before we begin a project, 
we conduct an exploratory assessment of potential community impacts based on local- and 
project-specific factors, and develop mitigation strategies with the assistance of our design, 
construction, and operations personnel.
Engage the community in two-way communication – Early in the project planning phase, we 
engage directly with community members and local officials. While our level of engagement 
depends on the scale and location of the project, we routinely notify all residents within a mile 
radius of proposed sites regarding planned location, operating times, equipment usage, other 
impacts, and, in the DJ Basin, how to contact us via our community hotline (see page 45). We 
also host community meetings and conduct one-on-one discussions, if requested. We use the 
information gained from these community interactions to refine our impact avoidance and 
mitigation plans, project plans, and permit applications. 
Ongoing community engagement – We communicate regularly with local communities 
throughout project lifecycles, including during planning, construction, operations, and 
decommissioning. We actively communicate operational changes and respond to questions 
and concerns, including those received via our community hotline in the DJ Basin. We employ 
a dedicated Community Engagement team, but our entire organization, including staff from 
Land, Operations and Engineering, and HSSE, participate in this process. We evaluate the 
effectiveness of these efforts annually down to the county level, assessing our compliance with 
company and local municipality rules, guidance, and policies, and reviewing the success of our 
engagements. We update our approach and share best practices across the company based 
on lessons learned through these reviews.
Randy Lavalleur 
Operations SuperintendentCommunication and first-hand interactions with our neighbors 
are important parts of being a community member. Through 
these conversations, we help them better understand our 
operations, and it provides us an outlet to hear their concerns and 
reduce or eliminate them if possible. Members of our community 
deserve to know that we truly care about them and their families.
Proactive Engagement Across the Project Lifecycle
We seek to be a good neighbor in the communities where we operate, and we take a proactive 
approach to community engagement. We establish two-way communication with local 
community members, landowners, elected officials, and local government representatives 
so that they understand our operations, and we understand and address their needs and 
concerns. Additionally, we have a dedicated community concern reporting and response 
process in the DJ Basin (see page 45).
We tailor engagement strategies to each project based on the type of project, project location, 
activity duration, and potential impact on area residents’ lives. By understanding community 
concerns from the outset, we can address the concerns through education and mitigate them 
proactively through design and engineering changes.
Our community engagement efforts generally exceed regulatory requirements, and we 
regularly engage with community members beyond what is mandated, including the number 
of community members we speak to, the geographical radius used to determine notification 
and community engagement efforts, and our responses to community complaints.
 Our Community and Landowner Engagement Process
of new developments 
such as pipelines, 
compressor stations, 
and plants are subject to 
our community and landowner engagement 
process.
100%
CONDUCT 
PRE-PROJECT 
COMMUNITY IMPACT 
AND LANDOWNER  
ASSESSMENTS 
AND MITIGATION 
PLANNING, AS 
NECESSARYCONSIDER AND 
NEGOTIATE OPTIMAL 
PIPELINE ROUTING 
AND SURFACE NEEDS 
FOR IMPACTED 
LANDOWNERSENGAGE RELEVANT 
AND IMPACTED 
PARTIES IN TWO-WAY 
COMMUNICATIONENGAGE ON AN 
ONGOING BASIS
40 41FOCUSING ON PEOPLE WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT
We partner with a wide range of landowners – from residents, farmers, and ranchers to 
businesses and hunting clubs to state and federal agencies – each of whom have varying 
interests and needs. The vast majority of our large-scale landowners have established long-
term land management goals that we must work within. We collaborate with them to find 
innovative approaches to eliminate or minimize our impacts, while meeting our operational 
needs and their land use goals. Our work with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) 
and State Land Office in New Mexico, and with suburban and rural landowners in Colorado 
provide two examples of our collaborative efforts. Collaborating with Landowners
Supporting Innovative Approaches to Meet Land Management 
Agency Goals
Western Midstream works extensively with the BLM and State Land 
Office in New Mexico to minimize our impact footprint by right-sizing 
facilities and co-locating with other infrastructure. We are particularly 
focused on minimizing impacts on sensitive resources such as rivers, 
wildlife habitats, and/or cultural resources, when impacts can’t be 
avoided completely. 
As part of this collaboration, we administer a voluntary third-
party program for projects on state and federal lands to support 
compliance with all grant and right-of-way stipulations identified for 
both construction and regulatory activities. We also participate in the 
BLM’s Permian Basin Programmatic Agreement (PA), which supports 
compliance with Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act 
for energy-related projects. The PA allows energy providers to buy 
into an off-site mitigation project to support much needed historical 
and cultural research for an understudied portion of southeastern 
New Mexico rather than performing redundant site-specific surveys. 
Funds received from the Permian Basin PA are used to conduct 
archaeological research and outreach in southeastern New Mexico 
including archaeological excavation of significant sites, predictive 
modeling, targeted research activities, and professional and public 
presentations on the results of the research.
In 2020, Western Midstream worked with the BLM on 
10 projects across the Permian Basin spanning more 
than 59 acres and approximately 13 total miles of 
pipeline.
Working with Communities as Land Uses Change
In several regions, particularly Colorado’s DJ Basin, much of our 
operations are in close proximity to farming and ranch lands. We 
continue to work collaboratively with local farmers, ranchers, and 
municipal officials so that our operations do not impact these 
important agricultural uses. 
Over time, suburban development has moved out to these 
traditionally rural areas, so that our operations are increasingly in 
proximity to residential areas. WES's Land and Regulatory teams 
work directly with planners and land developers through the 
Development Notice Process to review proposed development 
activities. This process allows us to proactively identify issues or 
risks to Western Midstream infrastructure and easements. For 
example, in 2020, there were 57 development notices in Colorado, 
and more than 200 in the two years prior. 
In early 2020, we met with every municipality in which we have 
operations to discuss issues that may arise from changing land 
uses, collaborate on potential solutions, and determine the best 
path forward. Based on these discussions, we have proposed that 
local governments engage WES when suburban planning and/
or development is proposed near our operations and that WES 
provide infrastructure maps for local governments to use as tools 
in planning efforts. This will enable us to share information and 
work collaboratively from the beginning of the planning process. 
42 43 42 43FOCUSING ON PEOPLE WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTEnsuring the safety of the communities in which we work is 
an important element of our safety and operational efforts. 
Maintaining asset integrity, avoiding and responding effectively to 
emergencies, and addressing road safety (see pages 64 , 67, and 
63) are key elements of how we safeguard communities.
The leading cause of pipeline accidents is damage that occurs 
when people unintentionally strike a pipeline while digging. We 
educate community members on pipeline safety, including informing them about the “811” 
line location program and the need to verify line locations at least two days prior to the start 
of excavation. To keep communities safe, we retain dedicated teams to respond to 811 calls we 
receive and to locate and mark pipelines on an ongoing basis.
In 2020, WES pipeline safety groups sponsored or attended 16 multi-stakeholder, county-
specific liaison meetings, to which over 8,700 individuals and organizations were invited. The 
main goal of these events is to increase public awareness about our operations and share 
important safety information with community members who live or work near our pipelines 
– including residents, public officials, emergency responders, and construction professionals. 
We assessed the effectiveness of the sessions by measuring attendees’ knowledge about our 
operations before and after our information presentations. We followed up with all invited 
parties to reinforce safety information, sending out more than 19,500 brochures to local 
residents over the course of the year.We provide community grievance reporting mechanisms, including a dedicated concern-
reporting and response hotline in the DJ Basin, and we typically respond to complaints within 
24 hours of a call. We manage and respond to calls during business hours. After-hours or 
emergency calls are addressed by our operations centers, which are staffed 24 hours a day, 7 
days a week, 365 days a year. We also engaged directly on communications or concerns from 
right-of-way landowners.
Details of each complaint are immediately forwarded to the responsible individual, such as 
the foreman or superintendent. Relevant and responsible teams communicate directly with 
the caller, and we quickly dispatch personnel to resolve the issue, providing an immediate 
response for urgent issues. All complaints and responses are recorded to help us identify trends 
and proactively change operating procedures to avoid future impacts, if possible. Significant 
complaints, such as those that require long-term engagement or capital investment to resolve, 
are escalated to senior management.
Most community concerns and complaints occur during planning and construction, which is 
a relatively short period of time compared to ongoing operations. The table below highlights 
inquiries and complaints that we received and resolved from 2018 to 2020. 
Category 2018 2019 2020
Aesthetics 3 2 0
Air Quality 7 1 4
Communication 9 33 19
Compliment 0 1 0
Engagement Opportunity 1 0 0
Gate/Fence 1 1 0
Light 1 9 4
Line Locate 4 4 1
Mud/Dust 3 3 0
Noise 6 12 10
Odor 2 1 0
Other 6 9 3
Permitting Feedback 0 0 0
Property Damage 3 2 2
Property Value 1 0 0
Proximity 7 13 2
Road Conditions 4 6 1
Royalty/Accounting 3 0 0
Safety/Wellness 2 0 5
Timing 0 3 0
Traffic 11 12 1
Trash 2 0 0
Weeds 0 1 1
GRAND TOTAL 76 113 53* This data includes all communications, 
including both inquiries and complaints, 
received through our community hotline 
for our DJ Basin-based midstream 
operations. The significant increase in 
inquiries and complaints from 2018-2019 
is attributed to new large-scale projects. 
All of these inquiries and complaints have 
been resolved.Community Hotline  
Communications*  
by Type, DJ Basin Only
Collaborating with the Front Range Fire Rescue
As part of Safe Digging Month in April 2021, we held a week 
of luncheons with Colorado’s Front Range Fire Rescue 
crew members, where we reviewed and discussed WES 
operations, transport products, area maps, and response 
protocols. This helped us define roles and responsibilities 
on topics such as perimeter and capability control. Based 
on positive feedback, we plan to reconvene the groups in 
the near future to further advance our emergency response 
coordination planning and expand attendance post-COVID.
Engaging with Local Communities on Pipeline Safety Community Inquiry Reporting and Response
calls responded to by the 
811 "Call Before You Dig" 
line in 2020
254,097
44 45FOCUSING ON PEOPLE WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTAt Western Midstream, we aim to build strong, long-term, and mutually beneficial relationships 
with Native American tribes in the areas where we operate. We believe in creating economic 
and social opportunities for tribes while recognizing and respecting the importance of tribal 
history and culture. We jointly own the Chipeta Processing Complex, a gas processing complex, 
with the Ute Tribe in Utah. In other states, we consult with the Federally Recognized Tribes on 
Federal and Tribal lands as part of our project planning and operations processes.  Tribal Engagement 
Concern Mitigation Approach
Noise and vibration • Orient facilities and place equipment strategically to 
reduce noise impacts on local residents
• Add noise-reducing equipment to the operations
• Add sound walls and berms, as needed
• Upgrade or modify equipment
Lights • Comply with "Dark Sky" best practices for reducing light 
pollution, including minimizing non-essential lighting at 
night
• Evaluate and reorient lights regularly to minimize impacts 
on residents and wildlife
Traffic, dust, and road 
damage• Use water trucks or magnesium chloride to suppress dust
• Regrade roads 
• Avoid high traffic/commuting hours and school bus hours
• Use pipelines instead of trucks to carry products during 
ongoing operations, which reduces road impacts
Visual impacts • Use the natural grade of the land to conceal equipment
• Install berms or walls, as needed
• Use landscaping to screen facilities
• Remediate areas to pre-disturbance conditions or better
Environmental concerns 
(water impacts, species habitat, etc.)• See the environmental section of this report (page 12) for 
examples of responses
Community safety • See the safety section of this report (pages 58-63 for 
examples of responses)
Surface impacts • Comprehensive pipeline routing 
•  Build windows to coordinate construction/operation/
maintenance with landowner activities such as farming, 
ranching, and hunting
• Development notice process to review new construction 
within existing/future infrastructureThe table below outlines the most common concerns voiced by community members 
regarding our operations and our actions to mitigate those potential impacts.Addressing Community Concerns
Partnering with the Ute Tribe of Uintah and Ouray Reservation
In 2008, we formed the Chipeta Joint Venture with the Ute Tribes of the Uintah and Ouray 
Reservation. Western Midstream operates the facility and holds a 75% ownership interest in 
the complex, while the remaining 25% interest is held by Ute Energy, an investment of the Ute 
Indian Tribe, Quantum Energy Partners, and Quantum Resources Management. The facility, 
located in Uintah County in Northeast Utah, includes one refrigeration processing plant and 
two cryogenic processing plants. Several members of the Ute Tribe work at the facility.
Though we were unable to have in-person meetings in 2020 and 2021 due to COVID-19, we 
normally host regular meetings with Ute Tribe Business Committee, Employment Rights 
Office, Energy and Minerals Department, and the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs on a monthly, 
quarterly, and annual basis to discuss current and future operations as well as to address any 
compliance concerns. As a result of the asset and operational ownership restructuring between 
WES and Occidental that occurred in 2020, our activities for the year focused on revising 
agreements and surface easements with the Ute Tribe. 
46 47Our local food banks were extremely challenged during the pandemic, 
so WES team members in The Woodlands, Denver, Delaware Basin, 
and Platteville each took regular trips to their local food banks to pack 
meals for elementary school children in the free and reduced lunch 
programs, or other neighbors in need. Similarly, our Gillette, Wyoming, 
staff regularly volunteered at a soup kitchen. 
WES and its employees jumped in to help an employee in Delaware 
Basin after a fire destroyed his family’s home. More than 160 of his 
colleagues raised $25,500 to help the family recover, and the company 
matched those contributions, provided two additional weeks of paid 
time off, and placed his family in corporate housing. 
FOCUSING ON PEOPLE WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTAs one of the first steps in building our culture as a standalone company, we established a 
set of six core values. We included Servant Leadership in these values to demonstrate our 
commitment to social investment and improving the communities in which we live and work. 
Over the course of 2020 and early 2021, we’ve implemented a range of programs to help us put 
this value into action, including:
Community Betterment Task Force – WES set up the Community Betterment Task Force 
to develop our social investment strategy and governance mechanisms and to oversee the 
organization’s volunteer efforts. Members of the leadership team from various locations across 
our operating areas comprise this task force.
Established employee-led focus groups – To help us 
better meet the unique needs of the communities in 
which we operate, the task force set up eight employee-
led focus groups in Texas (The Woodlands, Delaware 
Basin, and Carrizo Springs), Colorado (Denver and 
Platteville Area), Wyoming (Gillette and Rock Springs), 
and Utah (Vernal). The 29 employees who sit on these 
focus groups are charged with selecting local, nonprofit 
partners for each regional office to support. 
Launched volunteer tracking system – In late 2020, we 
launched our internal volunteer tracking system that 
provides details on company-led volunteer opportunities, 
tracks volunteer hours, and enables employees to make 
charitable contributions toward the eligible nonprofit 
organization of their choice.
Implemented employee incentive programs – We established two programs to incentivize 
employee volunteerism and monetary donations:
• Volunteer Rewards Program – Employees can record their eligible volunteer hours in our 
internal volunteer tracking system, and Western Midstream will donate $40 per hour to the 
nonprofit organization, up to $800 annually per participant. 
• Company Matching Program – WES matches 50% of employee contributions to eligible 
nonprofit organizations, up to $1,000 annually per participant.Community Investment 
More than 50 generous WES employees donated gifts for 25 
children across five foster/adoptive families through two Houston-
area organizations, the Moses Closet and Houston Angels. They also 
purchased basic essentials like clothing and grocery cards with leftover 
cash donations for the families. Sherry Bursey, 
Managing Sr. 
Counsel and 
Denver Community 
Betterment Focus 
Group MemberFood banks are vital to our 
communities, and their 
importance is even more 
critical during challenging 
times like COVID-19. By 
hosting monthly volunteer 
events at food banks in our 
operating areas, WES has 
become a true community 
partner that is invested in  
the well-being of our 
neighbors. 
 
December 2020 Community Investment Performance 
Since we launched our volunteer tracking system in late 2020, we are able to 
report just one month of data for 2020. In addition, we believe that the actual 
number of donations and volunteer hours was considerably higher than our 
recorded data, as only 24% of employees logged into the system in its first 
month. However, this adoption number was above the early-usage industry 
benchmark provided by the tracking system provider. 
In future reports, we plan on providing a greater amount of detail on full-
year social investment metrics such as employee donations, corporate 
donations, recorded volunteer hours, number and types of organizations, and 
community leadership through nonprofit board participation. volunteer hours recorded,  
across 17 different 
organizations
233
in employee donations
$26,878
in WES corporate  
match donationsAdded volunteering goal to compensation bonus program – In March 2021, we added 
employee volunteering as an element of our bonus compensation program. The WES 
Volunteer Program goal calls for 50% of our employees to record volunteer time through a 
company-led event or a registered 501(c)(3) outside of WES. This not only rewards individual 
societal contributions, but further embeds a culture of giving across our organization.
$27,038*
Supporting Our Families Through the Pandemic* includes volunteer and company matching programs
48 49We are committed to operating responsibly for the benefit 
of all our stakeholders. We are developing intentional 
and robust governance systems that support our 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) efforts and our 
commitment to keeping our workforce, communities, and 
the environment safe. We place the highest priority on the 
safety and health of our employees and contractors, and 
on the protection of the communities and environment in 
which we operate. We proactively manage workforce safety, 
asset and pipeline integrity, emergency preparedness, and 
community safety through a comprehensive Health, Safety, 
Security, and Environment (HSSE) management system 
(see page 52), and risk management process (see page 56).
In this section:
 ▶Governance
 ▶Employee and contractor safety
 ▶Asset and pipeline integrity
 ▶Emergency preparedness
 ▶Cybersecurity
 ▶SecurityOperating Responsibly
Highlights:
 ▶Established ESG Committee of the Board of Directors to help advance 
our ESG strategy and performance  
 ▶Added new ESG metrics to our internal bonus compensation 
program to strengthen our emphasis on safety, environmental 
performance, and employee participation in our social investment 
program 
 ▶Hired a dedicated Director of ESG to coordinate our efforts across 
technical teams and oversee our disclosures
 ▶73% reduction in employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 
from 2018 to 2020
 ▶Over 22,000 hours of safety training for employees in 2020, averaging 
around 18 hours per participant over the course of the year
 ▶Onboarded new executive-level officer for information security
 ▶WES's management team is compensated based on WES-specific 
metrics and receives only WES equity compensation to foster 
alignment among WES management, employees, and unitholdersOPERATING RESPONSIBLY WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT
At Western Midstream, we are committed to conducting our business the right way for our 
stakeholders by establishing intentional and robust governance systems. We strongly believe 
in developing a comprehensive, coordinated, and proactive approach to ESG issues. All 
departments are accountable for, and play an active role in supporting, our ESG efforts (see 
page 8). Our Board of Directors’ new ESG Committee is actively engaged with driving tangible 
ESG solutions, and receives a report on company HSSE issues and performance at least 
quarterly.Governance 
Western Midstream has comprehensive operational and HSSE management systems 
governing:  
 
• People and culture
• Health
• Occupational safety
• Asset integrity
• Environment
 
Our management systems outline the roles and responsibilities for all employees involved in 
each aspect of the process and is a coordinated effort among multiple teams, including HSSE, 
Engineering, and Operations. To increase focus and drive continuous improvement, we link 
employee and executive compensation opportunities to the successful attainment of Western 
Midstream’s HSSE, ESG, operational, and financial goals. Additionally, our program provides 
flexibility to reward extraordinary individual and team performance related to these areas.
We conduct comprehensive internal audits at least once every three years to help ensure 
the implementation and effectiveness of our HSSE management system, programs, and 
performance. These audits meet or exceed Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s 
(OSHA) Process Safety Management (PSM), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) 
Risk Management Plan (RMP), and U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) Pipeline 
and Hazardous Materials and Safety Administration (PHMSA) requirements. Audits also 
help us provide a safe work environment, maintain compliance, and promote continuous 
improvement. Facility audits include reviewing documentation, interviewing employees, 
and, at applicable sites, verifying PSM and RMP implementation and performance for direct 
employees and field-based contractors. Our HSSE and Operations teams consider audit results, 
identify issues, and implement corrective actions.• Contractor management
• Regulatory compliance
• Information management and cybersecurity
• Risk management
• Continuous improvementWestern Midstream is a master limited partnership formed in 
September 2012. We have implemented a range of governance 
improvements to enhance unitholder rights and management 
accountability to unitholders and other stakeholders. In late 2019 
and early 2020, we made important changes to our governance and 
employment structures that helped appropriately realign incentives 
to benefit Western Midstream and its stakeholders.
Examples of our governance improvements include:
Board independence – Our Board of Directors is composed of our 
CEO, three directors meeting the independence requirements 
of the New York Stock Exchange, one outside director, and 
three directors who are employees of the owner of our general 
partner. 
Independent Board committees – Our Board has 
established two committees comprised of entirely 
independent directors:
• The Audit Committee assists the Board in monitoring 
the effectiveness of our internal audit function, 
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, 
and the integrity of our financial statements, among 
other tasks. 
• The Special Committee, upon request of the 
Board, is charged with the review and approval of 
transactions in which a potential conflict of interest 
exists between the General Partner and Western 
Midstream.
ESG Committee – In 2020, the Board established a 
third committee responsible for overseeing our ESG 
efforts and steering our forward-looking strategy on 
pivotal issues such as diversity, equity, and inclusion, 
and climate change. The ESG Committee assists the 
Board in overseeing ESG matters, including those related 
to sustainability and climate change, that are relevant 
to Western Midstream's activities and performance, and 
devoting appropriate attention and effective response to 
stakeholder concerns regarding such matters. Operational and HSSE GovernanceCorporate Governance
25% of Western Midstream’s Board of Directors 
and 33% of its senior leadership team are female52 53OPERATING RESPONSIBLY WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTInternal accountability – WES has a dedicated Corporate Audit team that reports to the 
Board Audit Committee and to our Chief Accounting Officer. It is responsible for examining 
and evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of WES’s system of financial and operational 
controls using a risk-based approach, while adhering to the Institute of Internal Auditors’ 
standards. Similarly, during 2020, WES formalized a standalone risk management process 
managed by a committee that discusses identified risks with management. WES’s Audit 
Committee reviews and routinely discusses with management WES’s risk management 
processes and specific company risks in accordance with its charter.
Elimination of incentive distribution rights – Since 2019, Western Midstream no longer 
includes incentive distribution rights as part of its capital structure.
Independent management and employees – As of January 2020, our entire management 
team was employed directly by Western Midstream, rather than Occidental, facilitating 
independent managerial control of our strategic initiatives and day-to-day operations. 
Furthermore, as of April 2020, Western Midstream also employed our entire employee 
workforce.
Compensation incentives based on Western Midstream performance – In 2020, the 
company developed metrics based on its financial, operational, and safety performance that 
determined various compensation components for all employees. In 2021, we further enhanced 
our employee bonus compensation program to incorporate ESG target metrics, including 
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred (DART), and Total 
Volumetric Spill Rate (TVSR), and employee participation rate in the company’s volunteer 
program. Other metrics in the program reflect the company’s financial and operations goals 
and individual ratings based on performance. Additionally, we have Board and Officer Equity 
Ownership Guidelines that govern executive compensation, and follow a range of other pay 
best practices (see page 181 of our 2020 10-K for more information).Incorporating additional safety, environmental, and social 
investment metrics into our internal compensation program 
ensures that each of us who works at WES understands the 
importance of ESG to our success as a company.
Kate Sloan 
Vice President, Transformation
Expanded unitholders’ rights – In December 2019, we expanded unitholder voting rights 
through revisions to our limited partnership agreement. These changes:
• Provided that limited partners collectively owning 20% or more of Western Midstream’s 
unaffiliated common units may call a special meeting of unitholders, 
• Stipulated that our General Partner may be removed by a majority vote of our unaffiliated 
Unitholders; and
• Removed certain vote-blocking features for unitholders owning more than 20% of our 
common units.
Taken together, these enhancements to our limited partnership agreement provide an 
important mechanism to ensure that Occidental, as General Partner, is aligned with our public 
unitholders’ interests.
Annual policy review cycle – Each year, the Board reviews WES’s policies – including the Code 
of Ethics and Business Conduct – and modifies as deemed necessary. 
We expect our employees and members of our Board of Directors to uphold high ethical 
standards, and we ask them to demonstrate our company values and commitment to respect, 
fairness, health, safety, and environmental protection in their daily work. Our corporate 
governance and ethics guidelines – codified in our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics (CODE) – provide clear direction to our Board of Directors, 
management, and all employees on ethical conduct. 
All new and existing employees are required to review, understand, and follow our Code. We 
implemented a new standalone annual compliance training program in 2020 to certify all 
employees recognize, understand, and agree to abide by our Code. Moving forward, we will 
require that all of our employees complete training on our Code annually.
In addition, we provide an anonymous and confidential compliance and ethics hotline that 
is available 24/7 for reporting violations of or concerns related to the Code or other company 
policies or procedures. We encourage employees and contractors to report any concerns or 
violations through this hotline, which is promoted through prominent worksite postings, via 
our intranet, new hire orientation meetings, and annual Code training for all employees.
We promote our anonymous hotline in annual trainings and prominent 
signage and encourage employees and contractors to speak up about 
any concerns. Reported incidents are tracked and reported to the Board 
Audit Committee as appropriate. 
Controllable  
Cash CostsSystem  
AvailabilitySafety & 
ESGCapital 
SpendComponents of Employee Bonus Compensation Program
15% 25% 25% 35%Ethics & Integrity
54 55OPERATING RESPONSIBLY WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTEstablishing strong risk identification and management processes has been a central focus of 
our first years as a standalone company. 
Enterprise Risk Management
We are formalizing our enterprise-wide risk management policy and function. In 2020, we 
implemented a standalone risk management process managed by a Risk Management 
Committee, which also reports to the Board’s Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. Currently, 
we identify financial, operational, IT, and HSSE risks in detail in our SEC filings and provide a 
summary of key risks to the Board’s Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. 
HSSE Risk Management 
We have implemented an HSSE-focused Risk Management Program based on the ISO 31000 
risk management framework of hazard identification, risk assessment, risk treatment and 
mitigation, and risk reporting. Our risk management philosophy is based on collaborative, 
cross-functional decision-making that enables relevant teams from across the company to 
participate in evaluating and addressing risks in support of our projects or operations. Risk identification – Identify activities that potentially pose HSSE risk to Western Midstream 
using formal hazard identification (HAZ-ID) methods or during operational toolbox talks and 
job safety analysis.We engage in public policy processes to help governments understand our business and make 
informed decisions as they set new policies. Through engagement, we aid in the creation 
of effective regulations, legislation, and policies that will protect and benefit our workers, 
customers, communities, and the environments where we live and operate.
Currently, we engage in topics such as consistent ESG disclosures, public health, safety, 
environment, stationary source emissions, tax policy, wildlife resources, and county road 
maintenance through industry organizations such as the GPA Midstream Association, 
Colorado Oil and Gas Association, the Texas Oil and Gas Association, the New Mexico Oil and 
Gas Association, Texas Pipeline Association, Permian Basin Petroleum Association, Energy 
Infrastructure Council, and the Petroleum Association of Wyoming.
Our Code allows us to make financial contributions and lobby to the extent permitted under 
federal and state election laws, rules, and regulations. 
In 2020, we developed a new legislative affairs focus group focused on scenario planning 
and addressing potential impacts of proposed state regulations on both our business and 
stakeholders. Key topics of engagement included pipeline safety, waste, and emissions. See 
page 14 for more information on our work to support the development of emissions reduction 
rules in Colorado.
Risk analysis and evaluation – Analyze hazardous scenarios, understand the potential 
outcome, and communicate our effective controls. Evaluate level of risk, and prioritize activities 
for risk reduction based on hazardous scenarios that could be most significant to our workers, 
the community, or the environment. Establish the 
ContentRisk 
IdentificationRisk 
AnalysisRisk 
EvaluationRisk 
TreatmentRisk Assessment
Define 
hazardous 
scenariosAnalyze 
hazardous 
scenarios
Communication and Consultation
Monitor and Review
Risk ManagementPublic Policy Engagement
Risk treatment – Provide options for eliminating or reducing risks and implement those 
options in a manner that is proportionate, reliable, and cost-effective to the managed level of 
risk. 
Communication and consultation – Identify responsibilities and accountability for overseeing 
risk-treatment options and understanding key risks; maintain and report on risk registers that 
provide a cumulative list of hazards identified for a facility or asset area with risk rankings and 
details regarding preventative and mitigative controls, as well as treatment options. 
Monitor and review – Review risk registers and other key performance indicators to assess 
process safety performance, including leading and lagging indicators based on the American 
Petroleum Institute’s RP-754 tiered approach (see page 66 for additional detail on how we 
manage asset integrity and infrastructure-related risks and page 14-29 for how we manage 
environmental risks).Our HSSE Risk Management Program includes: 
56 57OPERATING RESPONSIBLY WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTEmployee and Contractor Safety 
In accordance with our formal health and safety policy, we strive to continuously improve our 
safety performance and reduce work-related injuries by building and reinforcing a safety-first 
culture, and by implementing programs that drive continuous performance improvement. For 
the past six years, we have consistently improved our employee TRIR, and for the past three 
years, we have outperformed the average safety performance of peers in our size class. 
Western Midstream’s Safety Performance Outperforms Industry Average
In 2020 , we achieved a 0.18 TRIR for our employees compared to a 0.715 industry average1 
among Division 1 peers (defined by the GPA Midstream Association as companies with 1 million 
or more midstream operational work hours in the year). And, for the second year in a row, we 
placed first in our size class in the GPA Midstream Association’s annual safety awards.2   
1 Based on GPA Midstream Association industry data for 2018, 2019, and 2020. 
2 The 2021 GPA Midstream Awards are based on 2020 performance data.
Employees  
Contractors  
Total Workforce  
(Employees + Contractors)Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)*
* TRIR is a standard industry safety metric based on 100 employees working 200,000 hours (full time for one year) according to 
OSHA standard methodology ..66       .44       .47
2018 2019 2020.34       .21        .24 .18       .48        .380.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 
0
TRIR - Employees
.66           .835 .34           .703 .18           .715Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)* - Employees  
Western Midstream vs. Industry Average
Western Midstream  
Industry Average  
Division I
2018 2019 20201 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.5 
0.4 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 
0Safety Performance
Our safety-first culture is supported by the LiveSAFE philosophy, which promotes personal and 
corporate discipline to help ensure that each employee and contractor returns home safely 
every day and encompasses our belief that every incident or injury is important. LiveSAFE 
requires everyone at our worksites to accept responsibility for their safety and the safety of 
those around them. We ask all employees and contractors to 
report unsafe behaviors and hazards, which we use to identify 
trends and eliminate hazards to prevent incidents from 
occurring. Everyone on a Western Midstream site has stop-
work authority, regardless of seniority or role. We discuss this 
ability frequently to maintain a focus on HSSE issues, and we 
expect anyone on site to stop work if they have concerns or 
questions about any HSSE issue. For example, if a contractor 
or employee needs clarity on a process, lacks experience 
with an assigned task, or sees a potentially unsafe situation, they are expected to call a “stop 
work” which means that any job or activity immediately stops for all affected staff to discuss 
the concern and take action as appropriate to mitigate the unsafe situation. As an additional 
outlet to communicate concerns, we provide employees, contractors, and site visitors with an 
anonymous Compliance & Ethics hotline and strictly enforce a no-retaliation policy for voicing 
concerns.
life-saving
RULESlife-saving
RULESUpdated Life-saving Rules
In 2020, we updated our Life-saving Rules, which provide clear guidance 
for identifying and safely performing high-potential risk activities. 
Throughout 2020, we trained hundreds of employees and contractors on 
these eight rules: We have made steady improvements on employee, contractor, and total workforce TRIR 
and other safety metrics. In 2020, our employee TRIR decreased by 47% compared to 
2019, and has decreased by 73% over the past three years. However, our contractor TRIR 
increased compared to 2019, pausing our five-year trend of consistently improving our Our LiveSAFE Commitment
• Energy Isolation (Lock Out Tag Out)
• Bypassing Safety Critical Equipment
• Ground Disturbance
• Hot Work• Driving Safety
• Confined Space Entry
• Mechanical Lifting
• Working at Height /  
Walking-Working Surfacescontractor and total workforce safety performance. This increase was primarily due to the 
challenges of operating during a global pandemic. 
Throughout most of 2020, COVID-19 prohibited us from holding our usual in-person 
safety reviews and meetings, which are important to reinforcing safety standards with our 
contractors. We implemented a number of measures to counteract the decline in contractor 
safety performance. For example, as much as possible, we implemented socially distanced 
and remote safety meetings with contractors. We also provided extended paid time-off 
benefits to contractors who could not work on our sites due to COVID-19. In addition, based 
on our ongoing incident root cause analysis, we identified hand injuries as the primary driver 
of increased incidents and implemented a “Safe Hands” program to increase awareness of 
relevant risks and mitigations (see page 61). See our Key Performance Data table (page 76) for 
detailed safety results.TRIR
58 59OPERATING RESPONSIBLY WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTSafety Policies and Programs
Consistent and robust safety policies and procedures are the foundation of our LiveSAFE 
commitment, including:
• Company wide hazard and risk assessments – As part of our HSSE risk management 
process (see page 56), we regularly identify tasks and activities that pose the most significant 
safety risks. We prioritize training and programs to address high-risk activities and develop 
mitigation strategies that reduce risk as much as reasonably practicable to further protect 
our workforce, communities, and the environment.
• Life-saving rules – For eight of our highest risk activities, we have developed life-saving rules 
in 2020 that provide specific processes and procedures that employees and contractors must 
follow for their safety. 
• Job safety analyses (JSAs) – 
Before starting a new project or 
activity, all relevant employees and 
contractors participate in detailed 
safety assessments and orientations 
to help ensure our staff properly 
identifies and communicates 
potential hazards and risks before 
they begin work. Additionally, we 
conduct streamlined JSAs before 
each shift begins.
• Safety observations, high-potential 
incidents, and near-miss reporting – We require all employees and contractors to report any 
potentially unsafe situation on the job. We track these observations, high-potential incidents, 
and near-misses to identify and prevent future incidents. 
• Safety stand-downs – We schedule periodic safety stand-downs during which everyone on a 
worksite or across the company stops work to review and discuss pertinent safety issues. Having stop work as the 
first line of defense to any 
safety concern is absolutely 
imperative to the well-being 
of our staff, contractors and 
communities. We empower and 
celebrate anyone on the jobsite 
who stops work to address a 
safety concern. This responsibility opens the 
lines of communications to discuss safety, 
reinforces our commitment to send everyone 
home safely each day, and enhances our overall 
safety culture at WES.
Before commencing work at a Western Midstream facility, all 
employees and contractors attend orientation and learn our safety 
values and expectations. We provide ongoing training to employees 
based on their job requirements and the risks they may encounter 
while performing their duties. Initial training focuses on the eight 
life-saving rules (see page 59) , and we develop additional training 
programs when we identify an increase in incidents or near misses. 
For example, HSSE and Operations developed a Safe Hands program 
in 2020 as a response to an increase in hand injuries. Through the 
Safe Hands program, employees and contractors develop a greater 
understanding of common hazards and the actions they can take to avoid hand injuries. We 
implemented dedicated training for employees and recurring communications to contractors 
on each of the seven high-risk hand hazards and mitigation strategies. We also added a new 
requirement that every individual on our jobsites have a pair of gloves with them as part of their 
personal protective equipment. Since launching the program in August 2020, we had only one 
hand-related incident in the 10 months following implementation.
In response to the pandemic, we expanded our online safety training program. We transitioned 
all of our annual safety trainings to a virtual setting and developed innovative strategies to 
maximize engagement and gauge the effectiveness of our training in a remote environment. 
We found that remote training led to an improvement in message consistency across the 
organization and increased ability to share lessons learned and best practices across teams and 
regions. We will continue to leverage this highly successful training approach moving forward. 
22,44918
EMPLOYEES 
TRAINEDHOURS OF  
SAFETY 
TRAINING* HOURS OF 
TRAINING PER 
PARTICIPATING 
EMPLOYEE, ON 
AVERAGE1,2272020 Safety Training By the Numbers
* Our total training hours in 2020 decreased compared to 2019 due to improvements in our training strategy to focus on providing more strategic, 
job-specific training relevant for different employee types and job functions.Safety Training
Mobilizing Safety Observation Reporting
Our LiveSAFE culture empowers employees and contractors 
to remain vigilant about safety hazards and report potentially 
unsafe conditions or behaviors. In 2021, we implemented 
a mobile app to make it easier for staff to report safety 
observations. 
The system works both online and offline, and enables users 
to report hazard identifications and unsafe conditions. The 
app is integrated into our updated incident tracking and 
reporting system (see page 62) to facilitate seamless data 
collection, reporting, and trend analysis.
Wayne Davis 
HSSE Manager
60 61OPERATING RESPONSIBLY WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTWe endeavor to create a culture 
in which safety underpins all 
decision-making throughout the 
organization. Executive- and board-
level commitment to safety is a central 
element of our culture.
To maintain awareness and drive 
accountability, we review leading and 
lagging safety performance indicators 
with senior management at least weekly 
and with the Board of Directors at least quarterly. These groups review leading indicators – 
potential safety concern observations, near misses, and high-potential incidents – and lagging 
indicators – low- and high-severity incidents, recordable incidents, DART metrics, and fatalities. 
We use these reviews to identify trends, eliminate hazards, and prevent the occurrence of 
incidents.
Additionally, we establish annual safety performance targets to promote and improve our 
safety-first culture. In 2020, we narrowly missed our total workforce TRIR goal of 0.35 due to the 
increase in contractor incidents (see page 58). Employee compensation, including executive 
compensation, is based in part on meeting safety performance goals. For 2021, we expanded 
these compensation metrics to include DART, an important measure of incident severity, as 
well as TRIR. 
Incident Tracking and Reporting
In 2020, we adopted an enhanced safety incident management system to help us track and 
learn from incidents and near misses. The updated system provides a clear and formalized 
investigation framework that defines processes for incident review and root cause assessments, 
outlines personnel and teams who must be involved based on the type of incident, and clarifies 
executive review responsibilities. The system includes expanded data tracking and reporting, 
which improves access to data and trends across the organization for our management and 
field employees. 
Accountability for Safety
Contractor Safety
We carefully choose and closely oversee contractors to help ensure they adhere to our safety 
and operational requirements. Safety is the most important criterion we use when selecting 
contractors; cost and other factors follow. We assess the safety standards of all our contractors, 
including the safety components of their management and performance systems. We also 
verify contractors have completed safety training relevant for their jobs. We perform additional 
deep-dive audits of contractor safety procedures and performance as needed. See the 
Contractor Management section (see page 38) for more details on how we hold our contractors 
accountable on other ESG topics.
We believe that fully engaged and collaborative teams lead to everyone returning home 
safely. To support this aim, contractors participate in onsite job safety assessments, safety 
stand-downs, and our safety orientation program so they understand our expectations and The Western 
Midstream Board of 
Directors consistently 
reviews company 
safety performance 
metrics in detail at 
least quarterly.
2019 2020
Total Vehicle Incident Rate 3.98 2.32
Preventable Vehicle Incident Rate 1.35 0.89Our operations can increase traffic on local roadways, mainly during the construction phase 
when we use heavy trucks and large equipment. We work hard to reduce the transportation-
related impacts of our operations to protect our employees, contractors, and community 
members. We require training for all employees operating a company vehicle and use in-vehicle 
monitoring systems to encourage and enforce safe driving practices within our workforce. In 
2020, we rolled out behind-the-wheel defensive driving training for all employees who use 
company vehicles. Additionally, to the extent possible, we schedule construction activities to 
avoid school bus and commuting times. As stated previously, we also transport the majority of 
our oil and produced water by pipeline, reducing potential for transport-related safety incidents, 
transport-related emissions, and associated community impacts.
Vehicle Incident Rates*
* Calculated as vehicle incidents multiplied by 1,000,000, then divided by annual company vehicle miles.
processes. We are also expanding engagement with contractors, including meetings between 
WES and contractor company leadership on HSSE issues, and increasing regular opportunities 
for joint discussions on safety trends and best practices. 
Transportation Safety
62 63OPERATING RESPONSIBLY WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTAsset and Pipeline Integrity 
Managing asset integrity is an important element of our approach to protecting our workforce, 
communities, and the environment. Asset integrity encompasses designing, operating, and 
maintaining pipelines, facilities, and other infrastructure to help ensure effective and safe 
performance through their lifetimes. The priorities of our approach are protecting people, 
the environment, property, and commercial operations, in that order. All employees are 
accountable for asset integrity, including senior executives. Our Asset Integrity teams review a 
dashboard of key performance indicators with senior executives weekly and monthly.
We manage asset integrity throughout the lifecycle of our infrastructure, including design, 
construction, operation, ongoing maintenance, and decommissioning. During the planning 
and design phase, we develop asset integrity plans based on the individual asset specifics, 
including uses and locations. We develop these plans collaboratively with internal stakeholders 
from all the relevant functional teams, including Construction, Operations, HSSE, and 
Community Engagement. 
In 2020, we began standing up a centralized Tactical Operations Center (TOC) at our 
headquarters in The Woodlands, Texas. This center will play a central role in the 24/7 monitoring 
of our operations for asset integrity and other operational parameters to help optimize 
performance, and to proactively identify and address potential issues. The new TOC is part 
of a larger initiative called the WES Wing aimed at fostering cross-functional collaboration 
to improve our overall performance and customer service. The WES Wing brings together a 
wide range of operational experts – asset integrity, engineering, operations, HSSE, customer 
relations and others – in one location to work collaboratively on information analysis, proactive 
management, and incident response. Employees at the WES Wing, including the TOC, will 
work with employees at the field-based operations centers in the field to maximize the 
benefits of both centralized and field-based operations capabilities. 
We strive to regularly exceed regulatory requirements for facilities and pipeline integrity 
planning and maintenance. For example, we follow the U.S. Department of Transportation’s 
(DOT) stringent requirements on pipelines, regardless of whether a particular segment 
is regulated by DOT, to help ensure we implement consistent best practices across our 
infrastructure. We comply with all OSHA PSM requirements, where applicable, and apply risk 
management elements of PSM to all facilities. 
Fred Hollis 
Operations ManagerOur newly formed WES Wing will play a central role in our asset 
integrity efforts by convening all the talent needed to identify 
and respond to issues before they become an environmental 
concern or adversely impact our customers. We are building 
a future in which we operate entirely by exception – reducing 
drive time, improving labor efficiency, and further advancing 
our operational safety.
We perform regular asset integrity risk assessments that meet or exceed industry regulations 
to identify and proactively manage and mitigate potential integrity issues. We prioritize risks 
based on the type of potential impact, the location involved (e.g., river crossings, near rivers, 
in more populated areas), and the level of impact. Areas with elevated risk profiles require a 
higher level of approval and oversight authority. We incorporate these risk assessments in 
design considerations, construction practices, and ongoing maintenance processes. We also 
regularly review inspection, maintenance, and incident data to better understand potential and 
actual integrity risks, and update our processes to minimize the likelihood of an incident. We 
follow industry-recognized failure analysis procedures that brings together asset integrity and 
other WES teams to understand the causes and scope of potential issues, then manage risk 
accordingly.
We meet or exceed regulations for initial and ongoing pipeline and equipment inspections, 
and we are working to develop a risk-based approach for determining timing for routine 
inspections and preventative maintenance. For example, we prioritize asset integrity 
inspections and maintenance for pipelines and equipment that process gas and liquids before 
contaminants are removed, due to the higher risk for potential integrity issues. By year-end 
2021, we expect to have completed baseline assessments for all API-specific equipment – 
including above- and below-ground pipelines, tanks, and vessels – that we will use as an input 
to this risk-based scheduling. We also undertake regular information analysis processes on 
relevant pipelines following the DOT’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s 
(PHMSA) protocols. These processes assess and review key integrity data as part of our ongoing 
risk assessment, inspection, and preventative maintenance processes. Asset Integrity Risk Management
By the Numbers: 2020 Asset Integrity Inspections and Maintenance
DOT regulated gas/liquid pipelines1,187 miles
DOT regulated gas/liquid pipelines in  
Integrated Management Program (IMP)*309 miles
8,380
Product samples analyzed for 
internal corrosion threats
270
404,000
checksmilesCathodic protection linear systems checks (close interval survey) 
conducted to test for adequate cathodic protection
Conducted to test for adequate cathodic protection on cathodic 
protection linear point systems (close interval survey)Cathodic protection point location system checks to test for 
adequate cathodic protection27,896
checks267
Cathodic protection systems 
under continuous monitoring
* Pipelines included in WES's IMP are determined based on DOT requirements for pipelines in potentially high consequence areas.
** Gas/liquid pipelines required for inspection are those included in WES's DOT-required IMP
Percentage of DOT 
required gas/liquid 
pipelines inspected 
in 2020**100%
64 65OPERATING RESPONSIBLY WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORTDesign and Construction
• Use geospatial analysis of pipeline routes 
and facility locations to identify potential 
hazards and mitigation options during 
planning and design process
• Develop asset integrity plans during the 
planning process tailored to infrastructure 
location and function to support integrity 
across the asset lifecycle
• Select materials and construction 
techniques, including grade, wall thickness, 
and coatings, based on infrastructure uses 
and potential for corrosive environments
• Add pipeline wall thickness, coatings, and 
corrosion inhibitors, as applicable, to prevent 
corrosion-related issues
• Implement cathodic protection on 
pipelines, facilities, and storage tanks, as 
applicable
• Use internal and third-party safety monitors 
during construction to help ensure safety 
and adherence to infrastructure integrity 
plans
• Follow stringent standards, assessments, 
and audits for materials providers and 
fabricators to help ensure integrity of 
purchased equipment and infrastructure 
(see page 39)
Pre-operation Testing 
• Meet or exceed industry equipment 
standards and requirements for external 
inspections and nondestructive testing 
(ultrasonic or x-ray) on all pressure vessels 
and tanks
• Meet or exceed industry equipment standards and requirements for external 
inspections and integrity
• Perform testing (including visual, 
ultrasonic, x-ray assessments, 
hydrotesting) of our piping systems
• Perform hydrostatic pressure testing that 
meets or exceeds regulatory requirements 
on pipelines, a process which uses 
pressured water to test new infrastructure 
for strength and potential leaks; perform 
both hydrostatic and pneumatic testing 
on facilities
Operations and Ongoing Inspections
• Follow API Recommended Practice 754 
for asset integrity related to process 
safety, which identifies process safety 
indicators useful for driving performance 
improvement
• Operate remote logistics and operations 
centers that provide continuous 
monitoring of system function to identify 
and remotely respond to any potential 
issues
• Implement remote pressure monitoring 
and automated block valves on individual 
pipelines, allowing for remote shutoff if a 
potential problem is detected
• Conduct in-line inspections and pressure 
tests of applicable regulated lines and 
gathering systems in high consequence 
areas, often exceeding regulations
• Conduct ongoing leak detection and 
repair program including inspections 
with optical gas imaging cameras at least 
quarterly and aerial surveys multiple times 
per year (see page 16).We have developed detailed asset integrity standards for all equipment types. These plans are 
based on industry standard practices. They include requirements for asset integrity across the 
equipment lifecycle – including design and construction, pre-operations inspections, ongoing 
inspections and maintenance – and training and certification requirements for personnel 
involved in asset integrity at all stages. Below are key elements of our lifecycle approach:Ensuring Asset Integrity Across the Infrastructure Lifecycle
Western Midstream’s Crisis and Emergency Management (CEM) team manages the 
preparation and response to emergencies, including potential operational issues, natural 
disasters, terrorist attacks, and cyberattacks. The CEM team works closely with our HSSE and 
Operations team to reduce risk, provide operational consistency, and enhance regulatory 
compliance.
We follow a systematic preparedness planning process (see graphic on the following page) 
focused on continuous improvement across an ongoing cycle of planning, organizing, training, 
equipping, exercising, evaluating, and taking corrective action to support effective coordination 
during the response to an incident. Risk assessments, response plans, and training are 
conducted collaboratively across relevant business functions to help ensure a coordinated and 
effective response. 
We upgraded and used several emergency response systems in 2020 including:  
• Implemented a new emergency communication platform that enables us to share 
information through mass texts, calls, and email alerts to WES staff as a whole or specific 
groups filtered by location, type of employee, or role; in 2020, we used the system to 
communicate about severe weather, political unrest, and a fire
• Installed enhanced security and access systems across our operations, including controlled 
badge access and video surveillance
• Activated and successfully implemented our business continuity and emergency response 
plans as part of addressing COVID-19, and in response to multiple Gulf Coast hurricanes and 
the Texas winter storm. 
Training and Drills
All applicable employees receive emergency response training and may participate in 
emergency training drills, including simulated pipeline releases and explosions, tank failures, 
loss of communications, third-party train derailments, severe weather, and security incidents. 
We also participate in joint training exercises with industry partners, peer companies, oil release 
response organizations, governmental agencies, and first responders to build and maintain 
strategic partnerships. We participated in more than 20 planned internal drills in 2020. 
On September 30, 2020 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Region 8 conducted 
an unannounced Facility Response Plan (FRP) on-site inspection and included equipment 
deployment as in a traditional Government Initiated Unannounced Exercise (GIUE), with no 
noted exceptions at our WES Central Oil Stabilization Facility located near Platteville, Colorado.Emergency Preparedness• Train onsite personnel to identify leaks or other potential integrity issues
• Conduct visual right-of-way assessments for potential issues or unauthorized activity, 
including monitoring land-use changes and ground disturbance work around pipelines
• Conduct ongoing pipeline locating services and public education to avoid unintentional 
third-party damage
66 67OPERATING RESPONSIBLY WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT
RISK ASSESSMENT 
& HAZARD  
IDENTIFICATION
DEVELOP/UPDATE 
CONTINGENCY 
PLANS
TEAM SELECTION & TRAININGDRILLS & EXERCISESREVIEW & ASSESS PLANS & TRAINING
Identification of Potential Hazards
• Oil Spill
• Natural Disaster
• Other
Oil Spill Response Removal Organization Membership
In May 2020, Western Midstream joined the Marine Preservation Association, an organization 
that supports effective release response capability onshore and offshore in the United States. 
As part of our membership, we have access to the Marine Spill Response Corporation’s (MSRC) 
inland response program, which supports our onshore oil release response capabilities and 
complies with U.S. Coast Guard oil release response requirements. MSRC, a nonprofit and 
the world’s leading oil release response organization, has the most extensive inventory of 
equipment in the world. Through MSRC, we have access to immediate response capability, 
personnel, expertise, equipment, and training for inland-pipeline release situations.
Natural Disasters
When our assets are threatened by natural disasters, such as severe weather, we monitor 
the event based on the threat level and projected storm path in relation to our assets. We 
communicate situation-specific information to key personnel at potentially affected facilities 
and related corporate functions. We use GIS technology to monitor forecasted paths and 
impact areas, and we maintain an emergency response notification system with incident 
response or reporting responsibilities to provide real-time communication of emergency 
events to our personnel.
Maintaining Safe Operations During the 'Texas Deep Freeze of 2021' 
In February 2021, Texas experienced a series of intense winter storms and 
extreme freezing temperatures that severely impacted energy, water, and 
transportation infrastructure. WES teams quickly responded to keep our workers 
and communities safe and – as much as possible given the situational impacts – 
maintain operational continuity. 
We focused on the safety of our employees and communities first. We activated our 
emergency response system to keep workers informed about dangerous weather 
and road conditions. We stopped work on nonessential activities, like a planned 
maintenance shutdown that would have exposed our people to dangerous roads 
and weather conditions. 
Further, we carefully coordinated all essential field work through our logistics 
operations centers to keep workers abreast of changing conditions and to quickly 
pivot response plans as needed. We provided temporary lodging for field-based 
workers so they could avoid commuting on unsafe roads. And we supported our 
employees at home by offering generators and other assistance to those negatively 
affected by the storm. Thankfully, not a single WES employee or contractor was 
hurt while responding to the deep freeze. 
While our operations were impacted, the combination of previously installed 
systems and our operations teams’ rapid response helped limit equipment losses 
and return us to normal operations in a safe and timely manner. For example, 
we had previously installed freeze-mitigation equipment on our water pipeline 
systems, significantly reducing the number of frozen valves and pipelines we 
experienced. Our logistics operations center monitored key equipment parameters 
in real time and coordinated with field staff to quickly shut in affected equipment 
to reduce or eliminate releases. 
Protecting the safety of our people and the environment was also the priority 
when bringing impacted equipment back online. We carefully tested equipment 
that had been taken offline during the storm — like vibration testing pipelines 
for potential pipe stress, and testing and replacing impacted equipment like 
valves and filters — before restarting operations. Additionally, our leak detection 
and repair (LDAR) teams assessed equipment with FLIR cameras as they were 
brought back online to locate and repair any leaks or venting that resulted from 
the freeze. We also coordinated a careful approach with our customers to avoid 
potential issues between our operations as we both restarted. Despite experiencing 
significant equipment downtime like other energy providers in the state, we were 
ultimately able to handle 100% of the oil, gas, and water customers sent to us within 
three days.  
68 69OPERATING RESPONSIBLY WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT
Ensuring the security of our worksites, operations, and workforce is essential 
to the safety and integrity of our operations and communities. We have 
implemented a range of security standards and processes to maintain a 
secure work environment including:
Security assessments – We assess facilities to identify potential security 
risks and vulnerabilities and take appropriate mitigating actions. 
Terrorism planning – We fully align with U.S. Department of Homeland 
Security (DHS), Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS) program 
for anti-terrorism planning and prevention processes.
Proactive planning – We develop detailed plans for potential security 
threats, incidents, and emergencies. Every facility has a current and 
comprehensive Facility Security Plan, Emergency Response Plan, and 
Business Continuity Plan.  
Training – We train employees and contractors regarding security 
awareness and procedures relevant to their job position and tasks.  
Coordinated response – Security staff coordinate with relevant teams across 
the company to develop appropriate procedures, equipment, and systems, 
and to respond to security, emergency, and critical incidents. 
Investigations – Security staff work with other internal teams to investigate 
reported security-related incidents. We also assist law enforcement in any 
investigation of suspected violations of local, state, or federal law.
Reporting – All security and emergency response related incidents and 
activities are reported through the appropriate chain of command.We know that cybersecurity threats are a risk for our industry and the 
stability of the nation’s energy supply. In 2021, we developed a senior-level 
position dedicated to information security: Director, IT and OT Security, CIS 
Officer. Led by a seasoned expert in this field, we are implementing rigorous 
systems to protect both our enterprise information technology (IT) and 
operational technology (OT) systems. Key elements of our approach include:
Risk based – We use a risk-based approach to identify and evaluate the 
greatest threats to our essential applications and data security systems.
Continuous improvement – Regular reviews are part of our internal controls 
to help us stay in front of the evolving information and cyber security 
landscape, as well as updating our controls on an ongoing basis. 
Leverage best practices – Our policies and practices are guided by 
established industry standards. We believe staying abreast of – and 
implementing – industry best practices is critical to maintaining the security 
of our information and operational systems.
Cross-sector collaboration – We recognize the need to participate in 
proactive cross-sector dialogue, including sharing lessons learned.
Mandatory employee training – Throughout 2021, we continue to formalize 
our cybersecurity program by engaging our workforce through mandatory 
training and communications. 
Energy systems are essential and critical 
infrastructure for our society, which also makes 
them prime targets for cyber- and information-
security attacks. We take seriously our role in 
protecting our own operations and the security 
of the energy system as a whole. In addition to 
implementing recognized cybersecurity best practices 
and standards, we engage with others to share information on 
threats and best-practice responses. We know the bad guys are 
working together, so the good guys have to work together too.
Keith Herndon 
Director, IT and OT, CIS Officer
Cybersecurity Security
70 71WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT
Appendix
Units 2018 2019 2020
Environment
Biodiversity
IUCN Red List 
and national 
conservation 
list species with 
habitats in areas 
affected by 
operations# Not reported 0 0
Releases
Number of 
hydrocarbon 
releases 1
Agency reportable # 20 12 12
Non-agency 
reportable# 12 11 14
Total number 
of hydrocarbon 
releases# 32 23 26
Volume of 
hydrocarbon 
releases 2
Agency reportable bbls 1,066 2,381 1,398
Non-agency 
reportablebbls 29 29 62
Total volume 
of hydrocarbon 
releasesbbls 1,095 2,410 1,461Performance Data Table
Our system integrations with Anadarko and Occidental limit our current reporting ability related 
to our past environmental, social, and governance (ESG) efforts. However, as we transition to a 
standalone midstream enterprise and fully separate our systems, we will expand the reported 
data.  
1 Hydrocarbon spills include crude oil, condensate, and natural gas liquids. A hydrocarbon release includes all releases 
greater than 1 barrel (bbl), not including releases that are contained completely in impermeable secondary containment and 
volumes released in impermeable secondary containment.
2 The volume of hydrocarbon recovered includes the amount removed from the environment through short-term release 
response activities. Not included are volumes remediated through longer-term response activities that are remediated in 
accordance with applicable state and federal requirements.In this section:
 ▶Performance Data Table
 ▶Lloyd's Register Independent Assurance Statement
 ▶GRI Content Index
 ▶Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index
 ▶Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index
73WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT APPENDIXUnits 2018 2019 2020
Number of produced water 
releases in Midstream 
Operations (Gathering & 
Boosting and Processing) 3
Agency reportable # 1 4 0
Non-agency reportable # 5 9 5
Total number of produced 
water releases# 6 13 5
Volume of produced water 
releases
Agency reportable bbls 27 107 0
Non-agency reportable bbls 64 73 77
Total volume of produced 
water releasesbbls 91 180 77
Other releases 4
Number of other releases 
(agency reportable)# 4 3 8
Volume of other releases 
(agency reportable)bbls 16 9 97
Number of produced water 
releases in salt-water 
disposal system (SWD 
pipelines and associated 
disposal facilities) 5
Agency reportable # 3 5 1
Non-agency reportable # 16 29 13
Total volume of produced 
water releases# 19 34 14
Volume of produced water 
releases
Agency reportable bbls 126 6,563 2,925
Non-agency reportable bbls 339 274 241
Total volume of produced 
water releasesbbls 466 6,837 3,166Units 2018 2019 2020
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and energy use
Scope 1 gross GHG total emissions 6MmT CO2e not reported 3.58 3.57
Scope 1 gross carbon dioxide (CO2) 6MmT CO2e not reported 3.27 3.31
Scope 1 gross methane (CH4) 6MmT CO2e not reported 0.30 0.26
Scope 1 gross nitrous oxide (N2O) 6MmT CO2e not reported 0.003 0.002
Scope 1 flared, vented, and fugitive 
emissionsMmT CO2e not reported 0.81 0.75 
Scope 1 fleet emissions MmT CO2e not reported 0.00813 0.00926
Scope 2 emissions 7MmT CO2e not reported 1.12 1.28
Total Scope 2 energy consumption 8 Million megawatt 
hoursnot reported 2.09 2.54
GHG emissions intensity and targets
Scope 1 GHG intensity 9 mT CO2e/MMSCF not reported 1.48 1.51
Scope 1 gathering & boosting GHG 
intensity 10 mT CO2e/MMSCF not reported 1.84 2.08
Scope 1 natural gas processing GHG 
intensity 10 mT CO2e/MMSCF not reported 1.04 0.92
Scope 1 + Scope 2 gross GHG 
intensity 11 mT CO2e/BOE not reported 0.0072 0.0071
ONE Future methane intensity – 
gathering & boosting segment (2025 
target of 0.08%) 12CH4 emitted / WES 
gathering and 
boosting sector 
throughput (%)not reported not reported 0.05%
ONE Future methane intensity – 
processing segment (2025 target of 
0.11%) 12CH4 emitted/WES 
processing sector 
throughput (%)not reported not reported 0.015%
3 Hydrocarbon spills include crude oil, condensate, and natural gas liquids. A hydrocarbon release includes all releases greater than 1 barrel 
(bbl), not including releases that are contained completely in impermeable secondary containment and volumes released in impermeable 
secondary containment.
4 The volume of hydrocarbon recovered includes the amount removed from the environment through short-term release response 
activities. Not included are volumes remediated through longer-term response activities that are remediated in accordance with 
applicable state and federal requirements.
5 Western Midstream operates disposal wells and pipeline systems to dispose of third-party companies’ produced water. A produced-water 
release includes all releases greater than one barrel (bbl), not including releases that are contained completely in impermeable secondary 
containment and volumes released in impermeable secondary containment.6 Includes GHG emissions reported under the U.S. EPA GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule, part 98 subparts C-II and corporate fleet emissions. 
7 Calculated using EPA 2019  e-GRID emission factors based on electricity usage. 
8 Includes electricity consumption. 
to Pecos and Houston to Platteville. Used the EPA Simplified GHG Emissions Calculator Version 6 August 2020 . 
9 Includes scope 1 GHG emissions reported under the U.S. EPA GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule, part 98 subparts C-II and corporate fleet 
emissions. 
10 Includes scope 1 GHG emissions reported under the U.S. EPA GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule, part 98 subparts C-II. 
11 BOE calculation based on the Energy Infrastructure Council (EIC) and GPA Midstream ESG Reporting Template guidance. 
12 WES joined OneFuture in 2021  and first reported data for CY 2020.74 75WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT APPENDIXUnits  2018 2019 2020
Pipeline safety and asset integrity
Noncompliance with DOT pipeline 
regulations 17Incidents of 
nocompliance 
(Number of 
federal and state 
inspections)1 (4) 1 (3) 7 (4)
Reportable pipeline incidents # 0 1 180
Significant reportable pipeline 
incidents# 0 1 190
Department of Transportation (DOT) pipeline inspections
Department of Transportation 
audits conducted (PHMSA)# Not reported Not reported 4
Miles of natural gas and hazardous 
liquid pipelines inspected 20Miles inspected 113.9 miles 149.3 miles 89.71 miles
Percent of natural gas and 
hazardous liquid pipelines 
inspected 21% 8.8% 11.54% 29.00%
Workforce
Total employees Not reported 1,006 1,023
Voluntary turnover Not reported Not reported 4.7%
Involuntary turnover Not reported Not reported 1.1%
Employees covered by collective 
bargaining agreementsNot reported 0 0
17  Each inspection includes a review of over 100 compliance issues. Incidents of non-compliance reported were each just one out of well over 
100 compliance issues reviewed in each examination.
18  The one reportable pipeline incident in 2019  occurred on our former Wamsutter pipeline in Wyoming. The line has since been 
decommissioned, and the area has been remediated.
19  The one significant reportable pipeline incident in 2019  related to our former Wamsutter pipeline in Wyoming. The line has since been 
decommissioned, and the area has been remediated.
20 Includes in-line inspections (geometry and magnetic flux leakage) performed on DOT regulated pipelines in the Greater Wattenberg Area, 
Greater Natural Buttes, West Texas and South Texas operating regions.
21  WES Integrity Management Program currently contains 309 miles of natural gas and hazardous liquid pipelines that may directly or 
indirectly affect a high consequence area.Units 2018 2019 2020
Non-GHG emisions 13
Nitrogen oxides (NO x)Thousand 
short tons1.75 1.65 1.63
Sulphur oxides (SO x)Thousand 
short tons0.11 0.16 0.18
Carbon monoxide (CO)Thousand 
short tons1.03 0.89 0.81
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)Thousand 
short tons0.98 0.89 0.88
Particulate matter (PM)Thousand 
short tons0.06 0.06 0.06
Hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)Thousand 
short tons0.07 0.08 0.08
Safety
Personal Safety
Work-related fatalities 
- employees0 0 0
Work-related fatalities  
- contractors0 0 1
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 
- employees 14Per 200,000  
hours worked0.66 0.34 0.18
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 
- contractors 14Per 200,000  
hours worked0.44 0.21 0.48
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)  
- Total Workforce (employees + 
contractors)Per 200,000  
hours worked0.47 0.24 0.38
Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) - 
employeesPer 200,000  
hours worked0.09 0.17 0.18
Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)  - 
contractorsPer 200,000  
hours worked0.10 0.04 0
Lost time Incident Rate (LTIR) - Total 
Workforce (employees + contractors)Per 200,000  
hours worked0.10 0.07 0.06
Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred 
(DART) - employeesPer 200,000  
hours worked0.09 0.26 0.18
Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred 
(DART) - contractorsPer 200,000  
hours worked0.10 0.04 0
Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred 
(DART) - Total Workforce (employees 
+ contractors)Per 200,000  
hours worked0.10 0.08 0.06
Total Vehicle Incident Rate 15not reported 3.98 2.32
Preventable Vehicle Incident Rate 16not reported 1.35 0.89
13  Data includes gas processing plant annual emission totals. It is based on actual emissions for plants that completed annual emission 
inventories and allowable emissions for plants that did not.
14 TRIR is the number of OSHA-recordable injuries and illnesses per 200,000 work hours.
15 Calculated as vehicle incidents multiplied by 1,000,000 then divided by annual company vehicle miles.
16 Calculated as preventable vehicle incidents multiplied by 1,000,000 then divided by annual company vehicle miles.
76 77WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT APPENDIXUnits  2018 2019 2020
Employee diversity
Total racial or ethnic minority # Not reported 253 276
Percent racial or ethnic minority % Not reported 25% 27%
Total racial or ethnic minority 
not recorded # Not reported 21 0
Percent racial or ethnic minority 
not recorded % Not reported 2% 0%
Total female # Not reported 174 184
Percent female % Not reported 17% 18%
Total male # Not reported 832 839
Percent male % Not reported 83% 82%
Total management male # Not reported 199 204
Percent management men % Not reported 83% 82%
Total management female # Not reported 40 46
Percent management female % Not reported 17% 18%
Total non-management racial or 
ethnic minority % Not reported 220 234
Percent non-management 
racial or ethnic minority % Not reported 29% 30%Units  2018 2019 2020
Senior Leadership team: male%Not reported Not reported 66%
Senior leadership team: female%Not reported Not reported 33%
Senior leadership team: minority%Not reported Not reported 22%
Senior leadership team: minority 
or female %Not reported Not reported 56%
Under 30 years old % Not reported 11% 12%
30-50 years old % Not reported 70% 70%
Over 50 years old % Not reported 18% 18%
Board diversity
Male Directors % Not reported 75% 75%
Female Directors % Not reported 25% 25%
Employee training
Total hours of safety training Hours 37,756 37,214 22,449
Number of employees 
participating in safety training # 1,151 1,076 1,227
Hours of safety training per 
participating employee per year Hours/Year 33 35 18
Contractor screening
Percent of suppliers screened 
based on environmental and 
social criteria % Not reported 100% 100%
78 79WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT APPENDIX
 
 
 Page 1 of 3  
LR Independent Assurance Statement  
Relating to Western Midstream ’s GHG Assertion  for the Calendar Year 2020  
 
This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Western Midstream  Partners, LP  (WES) in accordance with our 
contract.  
 
Terms of Engagement  
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance , Inc. (LR) was commissioned by WES to provide independent assurance of its 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory  (“the Report”)  for the calendar year 2020  against t he assurance criteria 
below to a limited  level of assurance and materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier using LR’s 
verification procedure  and  ISO 14064 -  Part 3 for greenhouse gas emissions. LR ’s verification procedure is based on 
current best practise and is in accordance with ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410.  
 
Our assurance engagement covered WES ’s operations and activities in the United States  and specifically the 
following requirements:  
• Verifying c onformance with:  
• WES ’s internal reporting procedures for the selected datasets;  
• World Resources Institute / World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol: A corporate accounting and reporting standard, revised edition (otherwise referred to as the 
WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol) for the GHG data1. 
• Evaluating the accuracy and reliability of data and information for the selected indicators listed below:  
• Direct (Scope 1)  and Energy Indirect (Scope 2 ) GHG emissions ; 
• Safety  Metrics  
•  WES’s GHG Assertion excludes  the following GHG emissions sources:  
• Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from offices , and  
• Scope 1 emissions not within the reporting boundary of the EPA Mandatory Reporting Rule (MRR).  
LR’s responsibility is only to WES .  LR disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end 
footnote. WES ’s responsibility is for collec ting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information 
within the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the Report is derived.  
Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the resp onsibility of WES . 
 
LR’s Opinion  
Based on LR’s approach, except for the effect of the matters described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion,  nothing has 
come to our attention that would cause us to believe that WES  has not, in all material respects : 
• Met the requirements of the criteria listed above; and  
• Disclosed accurate and reliable performance data and information as summarized in Table 1 below.  
The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of a ssurance2 and at the materiality of the professional 
judgement of the verifier.  
 
Basis for Qualified Opinion  
While WES addressed the majority of the findings identified during the verification activities, the following item 
remains open:  
• WES has not developed a base year recalculation policy. This is not material.  
1.  http://www.ghgprotocol.org/  
2.  The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement.  
Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites.  Consequently, 
the level  of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is lower than the assurance that would have been obtained 
had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed.   
 
 
 Page 2 of 3  
Table 1. Summary of WES  Key Data for C alendar Year 2020   
 
Scope of GHG emissions  Quantity  
(Metric Tons  CO 2e) 
Scope 1 GHG emissions  3,573,754 
Scope 2 GHG emissions (Location -based)1 1,284,133 
Scope 2 GHG emissions (Market -based)1 1,284,133 
Note 1:  Scope 2, Location -based and Scope 2, Market -based are defined in the  WRI/WBCSD  GHG 
Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, 2015  
Safety Metrics2 Quantity  
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) -  employees  0.18 
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) – contractors  0.48 
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) – employees and contractors  0.38 
Lost Time Incident Rates (LTIR) – employees  0.18 
Lost Time Incident Rates (LTIR) – contractors  0.00 
Lost Time Incident Rates (LTIR) – employees and contractors  0.06 
Note 2: All Safety Metrics are calculated p er 200,000 hours worked  
 
LR’s Approach  
LR’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification procedure. Th e following tasks were 
undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process:  
• interviewing air quality representatives responsible for managing GHG emissions data and records;  
• interviewing other employees  of the organization responsible for safety an d electri c utility data management ;  
• assessing WES ’s data management systems to confirm they are designed to prevent significant errors, omissions 
or mis -statements in the Report;    
• verifying historical GHG emissions data  records   at an aggregated level for the calendar year 2020; and  
• analysin g incident management procedures and injury and illness data  at an aggregated level for the calendar 
year 2020.  
 
LR’s Standards, Competence and Independence  
LR implements and maintains a comprehensive management system that meets accreditation requirements for ISO 
14065 Greenhouse gases –  Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation 
or other forms of recognition  and  ISO/IEC 17021 Conformity assessment –  Requirements for bodies providing audit and 
certification of management systems  that are at least as demanding as the requirements of  the International Standard 
on Quality Control 1 and comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics 
Standards Board for Accountants.  
 
LR ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. 
The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to 
ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.  
 
Signed           Dated: 19 October  2021  
 
Heather Moore, P.E.          
LR Lead Verifier  
On behalf of Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance, Inc.,  1330 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200 H ouston, TX 77077  
LR reference: UQA00001881 / 4528924  
80 81WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT APPENDIXGRI Content Index
We referenced the GRI Standards in developing the content for this report. Specific Standards 
referenced and disclosures reported are listed in the GRI Content Index below. 
Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Reporting Location/Direct Response
GRI 102: General Disclosures (2016)
102-1 Name of the organization About Western Midstream, (p. 10)
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About Western Midstream, (p. 10) 
2020 10-K, (p. 19-35)
102-3 Location of headquarters 2020 10-K, (p. 10)
102-4 Location of operations About Western Midstream, (p. 10)
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2020 10-K, (p. 10)
102-6 Markets served 2020 10-K, (p. 10-35)
102-7 Scale of the organization 2020 10-K, p. 10-35, 45, 78-82
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Our Employees, (p. 32-35)
102-9 Supply chain About Western Midstream, (p. 10)
Contractor and Supplier Management, (p. 38-39)
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chainCorporate Governance, (p. 53-55) 
2020 10-K, (p. 134)
102-12 External initiatives Environmental Management, (p. 14) 
Climate Change and Emissions (p. 18)
102-13 Membership of associations Environmental Management, (p. 14)
Climate Change and Emissions (p. 18) 
Emergency Preparedness, (p. 68) 
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from Our CEO, (p. 5)
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Integrated ESG Management (p. 8)
Climate Change and Emissions, (p. 15)
Risk Management, (p. 56-57)
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Core Values, (p. 11)
Ethics & Integrity, (p. 55) 
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52) 
WES Compliance Hotline (global) at 1.844.916.2773, or
report online at www.westernmidstream.ethicspoint.
com.
102-18 Governance structure www.westernmidstream.com/Governance 
Corporate Governance, (p. 53-55)
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environ-
mental, and social topics Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and 
its committees Corporate Governance, (p. 53) 
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, (p. 29)
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body http://www.westernmidstream.com/Governance/
Board-of-Directors/
102-25 Conflicts of interest 2020 10-K, (p. 201)
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting pur -
pose, values, and strategyOur Approach to ESG, (p. 6-7) 
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social 
topicsCorporate Governance, (p. 52-53)
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability 
reporting This report was reviewed by Western Midstream’s executive 
leadership team and Board of Directors
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Corporate Governance Guidelines (p. 6) 
102-35 Remuneration policies 2020 10-K, (p. 171-192)
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2020 10-K, (p. 173)
 
 
 Page 3 of 3  
 
Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc.   , and their respective officers, 
employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility 
and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this  document or 
howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a con tract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or 
advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.  
The English version of this Assurance Stat ement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions 
translated into other languages.  
 
This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in  its entirety.  
 
Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 20 21.  A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group.  
 
82 83WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT APPENDIX102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2020 10-K, (p. 190)
102-40 List of stakeholder groups We regularly engage with a wide range of stakeholders 
including landowners; local community members; local, 
state, and federal regulators, government agencies and 
environmental non-government organizations; investors, 
industry groups, nonprofit organizations, and employees.
Community and Landowner Engagement, (p. 40-41)
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Performance Data Table, (p. 77)
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Community and Landowner Engagement, (p. 40-46) 
Tribal Engagement (p. 47)
Public Policy Engagement (p. 56)
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Community Inquiry Reporting and Response, (p. 54) 
Public Policy Engagement, (p. 56)
Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Reporting Location/Direct Response
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements 2020 10-K, (p. 10-35)
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About this Report, (p. 11)
102-48 Restatements of information See footnotes for details about data that has been restated. 
102-50 Reporting period About this Report, (p. 11)
102-51 Date of most recent report November 2020
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Kamal Govender
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis is a GRI referenced report. The material in this report 
references the GRI Standards and disclosures identified in 
this GRI Content Index
102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index, (p. 83)
GRI 201: Economic Performance (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components 2020 10-K, (p. 10)
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2020 10-K, (p. 10)
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportu-
nities due to climate changeClimate Change and Emissions, (p. 15) 
2020 10-K, (p. 42-43, 54-55) 
GRI 205: Anti-corruption (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresEthics & Integrity, (p. 55)
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, an-
ti-trust, and monopoly practicesFinancially material legal proceedings and fines or 
non-compliance are reported in our annual 10-K. 
2020 10-K, (p. 62, 163)
GRI 302: Energy (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Minimizing Emissions and Energy Use, (p. 16-18)
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Performance Data Table, (p. 75)
GRI 303: Water and Effluents (2018)
103-2 The management approach and its components Water Management, (p. 27) 
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water Management, (p. 27)
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Water Management, (p. 27)
303-4 Water discharge Water Management, (p. 27)GRI 304: Biodiversity (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Biodiversity and Surface Impacts, (p. 22-23) 
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 
adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high bio -
diversity value outside protected areasBiodiversity and Surface Impacts, (p. 22)
GRI 305: Emissions (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Climate Change and GHG Emissions, (p. 15-21) 
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GHG Emissions Performance, (p. 20-21) 
Performance Data Table, (p. 75)
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Performance Data Table, (p. 75) 
GHG Emissions Performance, (p. 20-21)
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Performance Data Table, (p. 75) 
GHG Emissions Performance, (p. 20-21)
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO x), sulfur oxides (SO x), and other 
significant air emissionsNon-GHG Emissions Performance, (p. 21)
Performance Data Table, (p. 76)
Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Reporting Location/Direct Response
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components   Release Prevention and Response, (p. 23) 
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52) 
Waste Management, (p. 24)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Release Prevention and Response, (p. 25-26) 
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
306-3 Significant spills Release Prevention and Response, (p. 25-26) 
Performance Data Table, (p. 73-74)
GRI 306: Waste (2018)
103-2 The management approach and its components Waste Management, (p. 24)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Waste Management, (p. 24)
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related 
impactsWaste Management, (p. 24)
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Waste Management, (p. 24)
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components   Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulationsFinancially material legal proceedings and fines or 
non-compliance are reported in our annual 10-K.  
2020 10-K, (p. 62, 163)
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components  Contractor and Supplier Management, (p. 38-39)
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environ-
mental criteriaContractor and Supplier Management, (p. 38-39)
GRI 401: Employment (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Our Employees, (p. 32-33)
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 
not provided to temporary or part-time employeesOur Employees, (p. 32-33)
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2018)
103-2 The management approach and its components   Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52) 
Employee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63) 
Asset and Pipeline Integrity, (p. 64-66) 84 85WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT APPENDIX103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52) 
Employee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63) 
Asset and Pipeline Integrity, (p. 64-66)
403-1 Occupational health and safety management 
systemOperational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52) 
Employee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63) 
Asset and Pipeline Integrity, (p. 64-66)
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 
investigationOperational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52) 
Employee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63) 
Asset and Pipeline Integrity, (p. 64-66)
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communi-
cation on occupational health and safetyEmployee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63)
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Employee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63) 
Performance Data Table, (p. 79)
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationshipsEmployee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63) 
Contractor and Supplier Management, (p. 38-39)
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management systemEmployee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63) 
Contractor and Supplier Management, (p. 38-39)
403-9 Work-related injuries Employee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58) 
Performance Data Table, (p. 76)
Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Reporting Location/Direct Response
GRI 404: Training and Education (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Our Employees, (p. 32-33) 
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52) 
Employee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63)
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Employee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63) 
Performance Data Table, (p. 79)
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transi-
tion assistance programsDeveloping Our Employees, (p. 33)
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, (p. 34-35)
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, (p. 34-35)
GRI 406: Non-discrimination (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, (p. 34-35)
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Tribal Engagement, (p. 47)
GRI 413: Local Communities (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Landowner and Community Engagement, (p. 40-44)
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programsLandowner and Community Engagement, (p. 40-44)
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Contractor and Supplier Management, (p. 38-39)
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 
criteriaContractor and Supplier Management, (p. 38-39)
GRI 415: Public Policy (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Public Policy Engagement, (p. 56) 
Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
415-1 Political contributions Public Policy Engagement, (p. 56) 
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52) 
Employee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63)
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 
social and economic areaFinancially material legal proceedings and fines or 
non-compliance are reported in our annual 10-K.  
2020 10-K, (p. 62, 163)Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
Index
We referenced the SASB Sustainability Accounting Standard for Oil and Gas - Refining and 
Marketing in developing the content for this report. Specific disclosures reported are listed in 
the SASB Index below. 
Disclosure 
CodeDisclosure Requirements Reporting Location/Direct Response
GHG Emissions
EM-MD-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage methane, percentage 
covered under emissions-limiting regulationsGHG Emissions Performance, (p. 20-21)
Performance Data Table, (p. 75)
EM-MD-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to 
manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an 
analysis of performance against those targetsClimate Change and Emissions, (p. 15-21)
Air Quality
EM-MD-120a.1 Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NO x (excluding N2O), 
(2) SO x, (3) volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and (4) particulate 
matter (PM10)Non-GHG Emissions Performance, (p. 21)
Performance Data Table, (p. 76)
Ecological Impacts
EM-MD-160a.1 Description of environmental management policies and practices 
for active operationsBiodiversity and Surface Impacts, (p. 22-23)
EM-MD-160a.2 Percentage of land owned, leased, and/or operated within areas of 
protected conservation status or endangered species habitatBiodiversity and Surface Impacts, (p. 22-23) 
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
EM-MD-
160a.4Number and aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills, volume in 
Arctic, volume in Unusually Sensitive Areas (USAs), and volume 
recoveredRelease Prevention and Response, (p. 25-26) 
Performance Data Table, (p. 73-74) 
WES does not operate in the Arctic or in any 
Unusually Sensitive Areas (USAs) as identified 
by the National Pipeline Mapping System of 
the Office of Pipeline Safety. 
Competitive Behavior
EM-MD-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with federal pipeline and storage regulations Financially material legal proceedings and 
fines or non-compliance are reported in our 
annual 10-K.  
2020 10-K, (p. 62, 163)
Operational Safety, Emergency Preparedness & Response
EM-MD-540a.1 Number of reportable pipeline incidents, percentage significant Asset and Pipeline Integrity, (p. 64-66) 
Performance Data Table, (p. 77)
EM-MD-
540a.2Percentage of (1) natural gas and (2) hazardous liquid pipelines 
inspectedAsset and Pipeline Integrity, (p. 65)
EM-MD-
540a.4Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of 
safety and emergency preparedness throughout the value chain 
and throughout project lifecyclesEmployee and Contractor Safety, (p. 58-63) 
Asset and Pipeline Integrity, (p. 64-66) 
Emergency Preparedness, (p. 67-69) 
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
86 87WESTERN MIDSTREAM 2020-21 ESG REPORT APPENDIXTask Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) Index
We referenced the TCFD’s reporting recommendations in developing the content for this 
report. We recognize that climate change is one of the most critical challenges of our time and 
presents significant risks for society and our business. We continue to expand our  
climate-related risk and opportunity identification and management systems. Our initial 
responses to the TCFD reporting recommendations are provided in the TCFD Index below. 
Disclosure Description Reporting Location/Direct Response
Governance
Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. Climate Change and Emissions, (p. 15-21) 
Risk Management, (p. 56-57)
Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate related risks  and 
opportunities.Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52)
Risk Management, (p. 56-57)
Strategy
Describe the risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, 
medium, and long term.Climate Change and Emissions, (p. 15) 
Operational and HSSE Governance, (p. 52) 
2020 10-K, (p. 42-43, 54-55)
Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s 
businesses, strategy, and financial planning.Climate Change and Emissions, (p. 15-21) 
Risk Management, (p. 56-57)
Risk Management
Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing risks. Climate Change and Emissions, (p. 15) 
Risk Management, (p. 56-57)
Metrics and Targets
Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate related risks and 
opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.Climate Change and Emissions, (p. 15-21)
Performance Data Table, (p. 75)
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG  
semissions, and the related risks.GHG Emissions Performance, (p. 21-22)
Performance Data Table, (p. 75)
Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and 
opportunities and performance  against targets.Achieving Emission Reductions Goals, (p. 
19)This report uses qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to describe our policies, 
programs, practices, and performance. Many of the standards and metrics used in preparing 
this report continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be 
reasonable at the time of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees.About this Report
This report contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include 
statements preceded by, followed by, or that otherwise include the words “believes,” “expects,” 
“anticipates,” “intends,” “estimates,” “projects,” “target,” “goal,” “plans,” “objective,” “should,” 
or similar expressions or variations on such expressions. These statements discuss future 
expectations, including regarding Western Midstream’s environmental and sustainability plans 
and targets, or include other “forward-looking” information. Western Midstream’s management 
believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, 
can be given that such expectations will prove correct. A number of factors could cause actual 
results to differ significantly from the projections, anticipated results, or other expectations 
expressed in this report. These factors include the factors described in the "Risk Factors" section 
of Western Midstream’s most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and other public filings and press releases, as well as, with respect to our 
ESG targets, goals and commitments outlined in this reporting or elsewhere, the requirements 
of future laws or regulations pertaining to ESG matters, the ability to identify financially viable 
business opportunities that are compatible with our ESG goals, and the evolving nature of 
the standards and metrics used to evaluate ESG targets, goals and commitments. Western 
Midstream undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking 
statements.Forward-Looking Statements
88 89www.WesternMidstream.com
Western Midstream is a trademark and service mark of Western Midstream Partners, LP.
VERSION 2.0