2020  Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
APPROACH 
Message from President & CEO 2
ESG Strategy 3
ESG Priorities 4
ESG Transparency 5
ENVIRONMENTAL 
Environmental Impact 7
Emissions and Carbon Intensity 8
Our Emissions by Scope 9
Business Continuity 10
Renewable Energy 12
Real Estate  13
Fleet 14
Product Stewardship 15
Paper 17
Water Conservation 18SOCIAL 
Digital Inclusion 20
Accessibility 22
Digital Safety 25
Robocalls 26
Open Internet 28
Privacy and Data Protection 29
Cybersecurity 31
Human Capital Guiding Principles 32
Our Workforce by the Numbers 32
Committed to Respectful Workplace  33
Employee Compensation and Benefits 34
Diversity and Inclusion 36
Human Prosperity 38
Key Partners 40
Veterans 41
Employee Resource Groups 43
Learning and Development 44
Safety 46
Labor Relations 48
Supply Chain 49
Supplier Diversity 50GOVERNANCE 
How We Govern 52
Ethics and Compliance 54
Code of Conduct 55
Human Rights 57
APPENDIX 
Definition of Material Issues 59
ESG Data Index 61
GRI Index 64
1
IN THIS SECTION
Message from President & CEO 2
ESG Strategy 3
ESG Priorities 4
ESG Transparency 5
APPROACH2MESSAGE FROM THE  
PRESIDENT & CEO
Windstream made significant advancements over the past year 
in Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance and 
management. Our 2020 ESG Report highlights the progress we are 
making across a broad range of initiatives.
We believe a strong ESG program is an essential part of good 
corporate governance, and for Windstream, ESG governance starts 
at the top. In 2020, the company’s governing Board of Managers 
assigned five of its members to oversee and advise our new internal 
ESG Operational Committee, which is charged with managing our 
performance and reporting.
I am pleased to report Windstream received the second best ESG risk 
rating among U.S.-based telecommunications providers in February 
2021 by Sustainalytics, a Morningstar company. Sustainalytics’ 
comprehensive assessment demonstrates that Windstream continues 
to position itself to minimize environmental impacts, to treat 
customers, employees and partners fairly, and to govern itself with the 
highest ethical standards.
Windstream also achieved its highest score to date in early 2021 
from the CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project. The company 
received a “B,” or Management band, score, exceeding global and 
telecommunication sector averages of “C” and the North American 
company average of “D.” To enhance transparency, we made our CDP submission and targets 
public for the first time and had a third party independently verify our 
emission calculations and submission. As a result of our efforts
to reduce our real estate footprint and modernize our network 
infrastructure, we made a substantial reduction in Scope 2 purchased 
electricity as well as our overall Carbon Intensity score. We also  
made our foray into renewable energy with our first community  
solar power deal.
Finally, in March 2021, Windstream became the fourth U.S.-based 
telecommunications service provider to join the UN Global Compact to 
promote accountability and stakeholder engagement in the areas of 
human rights, labor and environment.
Windstream will celebrate its 15th anniversary as a company this 
summer. Our company is stronger and better positioned than ever 
to achieve our goals and drive value for our stakeholders. Our strong 
governance structure will continue to guide our path to a better future 
for our communities and world.3OUR 
MISSIONOUR 
VISION
OUR 
MISSION
OUR 
VISIONESG STRATEGY
At Windstream, two overarching statements guide everything we do:
Consistent with these guiding principles, our ESG strategy is to proactively and efficiently manage the environmental and social risks and 
opportunities that arise from the operation of our business. 
Windstream embarked on a new era in 2020 with an enhanced capital structure, and we are well-positioned to continue making substantial 
network and software investments, fuel innovation and sustainable growth, and drive value for all our stakeholders and society at large. 
Our commitment to addressing ESG issues is embedded at every level of the company. It includes Board of Managers oversight through 
quarterly and ad hoc meetings, officer-level engagement and a broader team of dedicated professionals who focus on specific issues and 
engage other leaders across the business.Connect people and empower 
business in a world of infinite 
possibilities.To provide innovative software 
and network solutions while 
consistently delivering an 
amazing customer experience.
CORE VALUES
Take ownership . Be responsive 
and transparent. Fulfill your 
obligations to your customers, 
team members and the company .ACCOUNTABILITY
Be nimble. Seek out 
opportunities to improve. 
Think and act in a way that 
embraces change.
AGILITY
Serve others. Cultivate a  
climate of dignity , trust and 
respect for all. Consider others’ 
opinions equal to your own.RESPECT
 COLLABORATION
Come together. Work with 
others to achieve shared 
goals. Foster an environment 
of teamwork.4C FB EA DESG PRIORITIES
This report is informed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
standards, feedback received through engagement with our 
investors, and industry best-practices. It is also informed by an ESG 
risk rating, materiality assessment, and benchmarking engagement 
with Sustainalytics (a Morningstar company), the largest and leading 
independent global provider of ESG and corporate governance 
research and ratings. 
A Materiality Matrix presents a view of the most material ESG issues 
from a business, environmental and social impact perspective. 
This is different from financial materiality, which is a threshold for 
influencing the investment decisions of investors. ESG issues can be 
presented as the most important sources of risk if not managed well. 
The location on the matrix indicates the relative importance of the 
ESG issue, with those located at the top right corner being the most 
material for the industry as a whole.
Each issue is prioritized in the Materiality Matrix according to the 
degree to which it could potentially impact our business and society. 
Our ESG strategy cares for all of the listed issues.
Human Rights – Supply Chain
Human Capital
Carbon – Own OperationsHIGH MEDIUMSUSTAINABILITY IMPACT
LOW
HIGH MEDIUM
BUSINESS IMPACTLOWA
EDBCFMateriality Matrix 
Product Governance
Business Ethics
Data Privacy & Security
= Key ESG IssuesPlease see the Appendix  for issues definition. Key ESG issues are those deemed most 
relevant to Windstream by Sustainalytics as part of its ESG risk rating process.5ESG TRANSPARENCY
Although Windstream is now a privately held company, we will continue to carry forward our commitment to transparency and reporting 
on our corporate social responsibility performance through this annual ESG report, our participation in the CDP emissions reporting 
process (and related third party assurance and verification of our submission), our commitment to actively engage with ESG risk rating 
agencies to help ensure full, transparent and accurate information on our policies, programs and performance against targets, and by 
sharing relevant policy and program disclosures on our investor relations website. 
We are advancing our reporting strategy this year by providing both an ESG data index and a GRI index showing how our disclosures align 
with the Global Reporting Initiative’s ESG reporting standards.
6
ENVIRONMENTAL
IN THIS SECTION
Environmental Impact 7
Emissions and Carbon Intensity 8
Our Emissions by Scope 9
Business Continuity 10
Renewable Energy 12
Corporate and Network Real Estate  13 
and Data Centers
Fleet 14
Product Stewardship, Waste, Reuse  15 
and Recycling
Paper: Reducing Consumption and  17 
Improving Sustainability
Water Conservation 187
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 
Windstream is committed to environmental stewardship. We believe that companies 
have a significant role to play when it comes to reducing our society’s environmental 
impact on our planet. At Windstream, sustainability efforts are an obligation, not 
a choice. Our corporate sustainability program and environmental policy combine 
common-sense strategies with more ambitious long-term initiatives to become more 
resource efficient. This approach allows us to make improvements while balancing 
the needs of our customers, employees, and shareholders.
To hold ourselves accountable, set goals and measure our performance, we began 
voluntarily participating in the CDP’s global environmental disclosure system in 2008. 
We believe in making environmental reporting and risk management a business 
norm and driving disclosure, insight, and action towards a sustainable economy. This 
past year, for the first time, Windstream:
• Made our annual CDP submission and sustainability targets public on the  
CDP website
• Captured and reported our Scope 3, value chain emissions, which tend to make up 
the majority of an organization’s total, overall emissions
• Received a “B/Management” level score from CDP, moving up one level from 
the prior year, comparing favorably to the industry and global averages of “C/
Awareness” and the North American average across all industries of “D/Disclosure”
• Received 3rd party assurance for our CDP submission and emissions reporting
• Completed a comprehensive, 3rd party climate risk and opportunity assessment to 
identify and quantify risks from climate change and potential carbon tax
• Initiated a renewable and carbon-free energy program
• Captured and reported our water consumption and shared our reduction targetWE REMAIN COMMITTED TO:
Environmental protection and 
creating environmental awareness
Maintaining our Environmental 
Management System (EMS)
Using natural resources and energy 
more efficiently
Working diligently to reduce our 
overall emissions and sources  
of waste
Monitoring and reporting on our 
environmental performance and 
any material issues that arise
Consulting with relevant 
stakeholders on  
environmental issues
Managing the regulatory, 
reputational and market risks 
related to climate change8
Windstream is 
committed to 
integrating the 
concept of  
eco-design 
into our product 
selection , network 
infrastructure , 
and operational 
strategies. EMISSIONS AND CARBON INTENSITY  
Emissions and carbon intensity, typically calculated as metric tons of 
C02e per U.S. $100 million of annual revenue, are heavily influenced 
by customer growth and geographic expansion, the level of capital 
investment in our network, and how efficiently and sustainably 
Windstream supports these activities.
Understanding that our customer footprint is largely 
rural and requires that we cover greater distances to 
support them, it is natural that our carbon intensity 
may be higher than others in our industry whose 
customers are in more densely populated  
urban areas. Being mindful of this, Windstream is 
committed to integrating the concept of eco-design 
into our product selection, network infrastructure, 
and operational strategies. This tangibly means 
migrating from older technologies to newer, more energy-efficient solutions, including from copper-based services 
to fiber, to edge routers that require 60% less energy per unit of 
output, installing energy-efficient LED lighting and low-carbon 
natural gas generators in our facilities, reducing our corporate and 
network real estate footprint, and using leaner, more 
virtual and efficient hardware and cooling solutions 
in upcoming data center rationalization efforts. It also 
means innovation and investment in remote diagnostics, 
more reliable and resilient infrastructure and hardware, 
equipment that can be self-installed, and improvements 
to call center help-desk effectiveness and first-time 
repair quality, which all serve to reduce technician 
dispatches to customer locations, truck rolls  
and gallons consumed.
9
OUR EMISSIONS BY SCOPE 
In 2020, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions were down by 14.6% from the prior year, or by 51,000 metric tons of CO2e as a result of our 
aggressive real estate rationalization efforts and migration to more energy efficient technologies across our network.  These strategies and 
investments directly contributed to a notable 6.4% decrease in our overall Carbon Intensity score.
Scope 1:  
Direct sources of emissions owned or controlled by Windstream (fuel to 
power our fleet, heat building and power generators)
Scope 2:   
Indirect emissions purchased by Windstream but generated offsite 
(almost exclusively electricity to power our network and data centers)
Carbon Intensity:   
Metric tons of Scope 1 and 2 CO2e per US$100M of revenueScope 3:   
Value chain emissions, defined as emissions that are the result of activities from 
assets not owned or controlled by Windstream, but that we indirectly impact in 
our value chain, which often represent the majority of an organization’s GHG 
emissions. Of the 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions, 9 are relevant to Windstream 
and included in our Scope 3 reporting: (1) purchased goods and services; (2) capital 
goods; (3) fuel and energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 and 2; (4) 
upstream transportation and distribution; (5) waste generated in operations; (6) 
business travel; (7) employee commuting; (8) upstream leased assets, and; (9) use 
of sold products.
Note: 2019 reporting has been verified with third-party assurance, 2020 reporting will be verified following our CDP submission in June, which is the customary timing for this activity.GHG Emissions (CO2e metric tons) 2020 GHG Profile – Scope 1 and 2
Emissions 2018 2019 2020 2020 vs 2019
Scope 1 63,811 60,350 62,956 + 4.3%
Scope 2 295,451 286,039 232,749 - 18.6%
Total GHG (Scope 1 & 2) 359,262 346,389 295,705 - 14.6%
Carbon Intensity 62.92 67.71 63.39 - 6.4%
Scope 3 (all) Not Calculated 479,363 508,403 6.1%
Scope 3 (business travel only) Not Calculated 5,792 1,908 - 67%
Total Emissions (Scope 1, 2 & 3) Not Calculated 825,752 804,108 -12.00%295,705
CO2e
(metric tons)
Electricity and
other Indirect
sources
(79%)Building and
other Fuels
(3%)Vehicle Fuels
(18%)10
BUSINESS CONTINUITY 
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Windstream implemented several 
provisions of our Business Continuity and 
Pandemic Response Plans, which provide 
a standardized strategy for managing 
potentially disruptive events. Key strategies 
for continuity of our operations were 
transitioning our employees to virtual 
home offices in most locations utilizing 
the company’s robust collaboration 
tools, including OfficeSuite HD Meeting®, 
equipping our employees with personal 
protective equipment (i.e., masks, hand 
sanitizer, gloves) and safety protocols 
based on CDC guidance, and engaging 
critical suppliers and vendors to 
ensure their capacity to provide 
product and service continuity.
Windstream’s Corporate Business 
Continuity Management Program’s 
mission is to identify risk to its 
essential business functions by 
developing plans to mitigate those 
risks to protect our employees, 
business operations, customers, 
and key stakeholders. As part 
of our program goals, we promote business continuity awareness 
and participation at all levels within the 
company.  We do this through annual training 
and exercises, and by observing Business 
Continuity Awareness Week in May, which 
highlights the importance of business 
continuity and focuses on building and 
investing in resiliency. 
Annually, we conduct a Business Impact 
Analysis to ensure that the essential business 
functions are included in our plans for recovery 
and restoration in the event of a disaster or 
business disruption. In conjunction with the 
impact analysis, a risk and threat analysis 
review is conducted for an understanding 
of any site vulnerabilities to determine 
remediation and consider mitigation as 
appropriate in the recovery strategies. 
Windstream’s Corporate Business 
Continuity Management Program’s mission 
is to identify risk to its essential business 
functions by developing plans to mitigate 
those risks to protect our employees, 
business operations , customers , and key 
stakeholders.11
The recovery strategies are intended to minimize the decision-making 
process during a business continuity event or catastrophic event. A 
catastrophic event that could cause or has caused significant impact to 
our People, Premises, Resources, and Suppliers (P.P.R.S.). Catastrophic 
events are many, ranging from natural disasters (e.g., floods, 
hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes), technological disasters (e.g., 
cyber incidents/data breaches), pandemics, to man-made disasters 
(e.g., work-place violence, active-shooter). 
Our Business Continuity Management Program in collaboration with key business process owners and 
leads has prepared and maintains plans for responding to these events with documented Business 
Continuity Plans, Crisis Management and Communication Plans, and Emergency Action Plans.
Our teams are trained on the recovery and restoration procedures through participation in structured 
walkthroughs and tabletop exercises, and functional integrated system tests. The recovery and 
restoration procedures are developed to respond to events impacting our P.P.R.S. Specifically, the 
recovery strategies consider a loss of facility, loss of systems, or loss of facility and resources/
suppliers. 
Our business continuity management program manager is certified by the Business Continuity 
Institute and in the international business continuity standard ISO 22301:2012. For ease of access 
and management of the Business Continuity Management Program, we have implemented a 
Business Continuity Management (BCM) SaaS solution, which facilitates the administration and 
utilization of our plans. The BCM system allows for the plans to be maintained in a real-time 
mode instead of hardcopies for quicker and more effective response during an event with 
the latest updates to plan components as well as the monitoring of a plan activation and 
recovery activities following an event. 
Before, during, and after an event, crisis communication is facilitated via our WIN Alerts 
notification system, which is imperative to ensure a coordinated, consistent, monitored 
and controlled message throughout the event up until returning to normal operations, 
which ultimately addresses one of the primary goals to provide situational awareness 
and transparency and maintain customer confidence.Our business continuity 
management program manager 
is certified by the Business 
Continuity Institute and in 
the international business 
continuity standard ISO 
22301:2012 .
12
Windstream formally initiated our renewable and carbon-free energy program with the signing of our first 
community solar project with the state of New York in October 2020. In 2021, we have already contracted  
with our utility providers in Texas, Illinois and Ohio to guarantee all our energy requirements in those  
states will come from renewable sources. This alone covers roughly 9% of all our annual electricity 
consumption. We have set a target to have 50% of all electricity provided from renewable  
and carbon-free sources by 2025.
In 2020, approximately 16.3% of all Windstream Scope 2 purchased electricity  
came from renewable sources, and 34.3% came from sources considered  
carbon-free. Renewables include geothermal, hydroelectric, solar  
thermal, wind and wood or wood-derived fuels. Carbon-free  
includes all categories of renewables plus energy derived  
from nuclear power. The table below outlines Windstream’s  
source of Scope 2 purchased electricity last year based on  
the 2020 EIA Source Breakdown by state.RENEWABLE ENERGY 
Windstream Source Breakdown
Natural Gas (38%)
Hydroelectric Conventional (4%)
Coal (27%)
Wind (9%)
Nuclear (18%)
Other (4%)13
Windstream’s real estate portfolio consisted 
of 3,578 owned and leased facilities as of 
December 31, 2020. Of those, 11% were 
designated as corporate office locations based 
on primary use and the remaining 89% as network 
locations. Since embarking on a strategic real 
estate rationalization and consolidation initiative in 
2016, we have exited 128 sites resulting in an overall 
square footage reduction of 9%. With another 41 
exits planned in 2021, we intend to reduce our overall 
footprint by 12% from the 2016 baseline by year-end. 
This corresponds to a 23% reduction in square footage 
within the corporate segment.
Our current data center footprint, included in the 
network real estate segment, is largely the result of past 
acquisitions, and these centers are heavy users of Scope 2 
purchased electricity. Windstream is undertaking a significant 
modernization and consolidation effort, with a target of going 
from the 9 centers to a significantly smaller footprint over the 
next 5 years. By migrating from heavier, energy intensive legacy 
hardware to leaner, virtual and more energy efficient solutions, we 
expect to achieve material reductions in Scope 2 emissions tied to 
our baseline operations today, even adjusted for planned growth.REAL ESTATE 
14
Windstream operates the 50th largest truck fleet and one of the 
top 100 largest commercial fleets in the United States, and the fuel 
to power these vehicles is the single largest source of our Scope 1 
emissions, accounting for 87% of this segment last year. In order 
to achieve our target of reducing Scope 1 emissions 20% by 2025 
from the 2019 baseline year, Windstream initiated a fleet renewal 
and modernization effort that will increase the average MPG of the 
fleet by that same amount over the next five years by moving from 
heavier, 8-cylinder trucks to more efficient and lighter V-6 models. 
This effort will also reduce the average age of our vehicles by 37% 
and subsequently result in lower maintenance costs, allowing us to 
achieve an annual run-rate reduction of fleet operating expenses 
by more than $7 million. 
Additional benefits are expected from our continued work to 
reduce the need to dispatch technicians to homes and businesses 
by improving remote diagnostics and call center effectiveness, 
improving initial quality to avoid repeat trouble tickets, continuing 
to “right size” our fleet and eliminate underutilized assets, and from 
a fleet GPS / telematics solution being introduced this year that will help reduce idle time and operating costs while improving  
driver safety. 
We continue to monitor the evolution of electric and hybrid 
vehicles and intend to begin integrating them into our fleet as  
they become cost and operationally feasible from an  
infrastructure perspective.
As outlined in the table below, we saw a 12% increase in the 
number of gallons consumed by our fleet from the prior year. This 
is partly explained by the 6% growth in the number of consumer 
households served in our network, and partly by a pandemic 
risk mitigation policy to allow technicians to home garage with 
their assigned vehicles in order to minimize group and in-person 
contact at our normal reporting centers. While this increased the 
average miles driven per dispatch, the policy served to help protect 
Windstream’s most important resource, our people. Since our 
Kinetic consumer business accounts for approximately 85% of our 
fleet, consumer households represent the best proxy for growth in 
demand for dispatches and miles driven.FLEET
2018 2019 2020 2020 vs 2019
Gallons Consumed 5,632,283 5,346,948 5,988,229 + 12%
Vehicle Count 5,229 4,481 4,338 - 3%
Consumer Households 1,034,000 1,049,000 1,109,000 + 6%
Tasks / Dispatches 1,739,864 1,677,335 1,469,392 - 12%15
Windstream’s product stewardship programs are designed to minimize the 
health, safety, environmental, and social impacts of the products and their 
packaging that we sell or install in our network, while also maximizing economic 
benefits. The lifecycle of a product and its packaging are often associated 
with energy and materials consumption, waste generation, toxic substances, 
greenhouse gases, and other air and water emissions.
At the very beginning of the product lifecycle, Windstream’s collaboration with 
our manufacturing partner on the next generation of our set-top-box (STB) 
serves as a tangible example of how we integrate the concepts of product 
stewardship and eco-design as part of our overall environmental policy. The 
power consumption for these boxes is mainly decided by the semiconductor 
technology used in the production of the main CPU, which can be defined by a 
certain number, such as “28 nanotechnologies.” The smaller the number, the 
more power-savings we can achieve. The current model is based on 28 nano 
and our next-generation product will be based on 12 nano, which significantly 
saves on active power requirements and provides ongoing improvements to 
energy efficiency.
Our goal is to divert as many consumer modems, set-top boxes, network 
devices and other electronics as possible from landfills by refurbishing and 
redeploying them. When we are unable to reuse equipment, we next market 
it for resale and reuse through approved gray market vendors, and ultimately 
scrap and recycle the product as a last resort.PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Windstream targets recovery of greater than 70%  of all disconnected 
consumer and enterprise equipment, and to successfully refurbish at least 
65%  for future redeployment.  We exceeded both goals in 2020.16
Windstream has assigned resources to manage the reverse logistics 
processes for consumer modems, and enterprise and network 
hardware and equipment, which are designed to achieve 100% 
landfill avoidance.
In 2020, we refurbished 63,526 modems and 79,395 pieces of 
enterprise and network equipment for redeployment. We also sold 
more than 20,850 pieces of equipment we could no longer utilize for 
reuse by others on the gray market.
Windstream recycled another 475 tons of e-waste generated 
through other operational waste streams last year, up 207% from 
2019 as a result of a centralized, national program we began implementing in 2018. These recycling efforts included more than 
25 tons of batteries and 1,117 tons of ferrous metals, and avoided 
an estimated 788 metric tons of CO2e greenhouse gas emissions 
based on our providers’ reporting.
We also avoided more than 5 tons of hazardous waste which 
was diverted from landfills to recyclers, and as part of our 
ongoing commitment to reduce hazardous waste, will continue to 
monitor, measure and report on this initiative and our progress in 
subsequent annual ESG reports. Our e-waste vendors are certified 
recyclers that meet electronics waste recycling standards, such as 
R2 or e-Stewards.
63,526   
refurbished modems
79,395   
refurbished pieces of  
enterprise and network 
equipment for redeployment
19,686   
pieces of equipment sold475   
recycled tons of e-waste 
25   
tons of recycled batteries
1,117   
tons of recycled ferrous metals788   
metric tons of avoided CO2e 
greenhouse gas emissions based 
on our providers’ reporting.
5  
tons of hazardous waste was 
diverted from landfills to 
recyclersBY THE NUMBERS:17
Windstream is committed to the sustainable sourcing and use of paper, and we 
established a target in 2016 to reduce our office paper consumption by 75% by 
2025. In 2020, we reduced our consumption by 38% from 2019, and by 84% from 
our 2016 baseline, exceeding our goal five years earlier than planned. Some of 
the decrease last year was due to greater numbers of our workforce working 
remotely as a result of the pandemic, but most was the result of focused efforts 
to reduce the number of copiers, default settings to double-sided printing, and 
reduce overall demand by printing less and using more online collaboration 
tools, electronic presentations and reporting formats. We expect these 
reductions to be sustained and improved upon in subsequent years. 
It is our sourcing policy to give purchasing preference to products that are 
certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) wherever possible, include 
measurable amounts of Post-Consumer Waste (PCW), that are processed 
chlorine-free or that utilize the best available technologies, and to suppliers that 
can identify the source of their products and verify they do not contain fibers 
from ancient or endangered forests. In 2020, 100% of our sourced office paper 
was FSC certified and 5% included at least 30% PCW content. Office paper is 
recycled using bins and a third-party shredding provider.
Having exceeded our primary goal of reducing consumption and paper use, 
Windstream will now focus on increasing the percentage of paper that includes 
PCW, and we have set a target to have at least 50% of all office-related paper 
include a minimum of 30% PCW by 2025.PAPER 
 OFFICE PAPER  
CONSUMPTION  
REDUCTION
38%  
from 2019
84%  
from 2016 Baseline
Exceeding Our Goal 
Five Years Earlier 
Than Planned18
Windstream is working to reduce its freshwater use by 25% or 77M 
gallons by 2025 from our 2016 baseline year for owned and leased 
properties where water consumption is reported. With the single 
biggest source of our water use tied to the facilities we own and lease, 
managerial responsibility for monitoring, measuring and reporting 
water use is assigned to the chief procurement officer and the 
corporate real estate and facilities team that reports into this position.
Through 2018, we are pleased to report that water consumption 
was down 15% or 45M gallons from our baseline year. We are not 
reporting 2019 and 2020 consumption in this report due to changes 
to certain utility bill payment processes and will disclose those 
figures once the new data has been validated. We fully expect 
that the downward usage trend will be sustained because of 
substantial real estate consolidation efforts over this same  
time period.WATER CONSERVATION 
Water Consumption 2016 2017 2018
Millions of Gallons 306 274 260
Consumption Down  
15% or 45M  
                                                             gallons19
SOCIAL
IN THIS SECTION
Digital Inclusion 20
Accessibility 22
Digital Safety 25
Robocalls 26
Open Internet 28
Privacy and Data Protection 29
Cybersecurity 31
Human Capital Guiding Principles 32
Our Workforce by the Numbers 32
Committed to Respectful Workplace  33Employee Compensation and Benefits 34
Diversity and Inclusion 36
Human Prosperity 38
Key Partners 40
Veterans 41
Employee Resource Groups 43
Learning and Development 44
Safety 46
Labor Relations 48
Supply Chain 49
Supplier Diversity 5020At the end of 2020, Windstream had 4.9 million locations in its ILEC footprint: 4.6 million are residential with the remaining 0.3 million 
classified as business. Windstream’s footprint is largely rural with 97% of our service territory falling outside of municipal boundaries. 
More than 52% of Windstream’s residential locations and 29% of business locations fall outside of municipal boundaries. Those locations 
are spread across 151,000 square miles in 18 states for a population density of 16 locations per square mile. Only 3% (or 5,000 square 
miles) of Windstream’s ILEC territory fall within a municipal boundary. Windstream is wholly invested in all our customers and laser-
focused on bridging the digital divide. Deploying broadband to rural America can be very costly, so Windstream looks to participate in 
federal, state, and local grant programs to help drive the overall cost of deployment down. With over half of our residential customers 
falling outside of municipal boundaries, grant programs are instrumental in improving speeds to our most unserved locations. DIGITAL INCLUSION 
21In 2020 alone, Windstream 
secured approximately $23 
million  in state and local grants  
to deploy fiber  to the home 
(FttP) to approximately 8,000 
locations , enabling speeds of 
1 gigabit per second while also 
increasing speeds to another 
approximately 5,000 locations of 
at least 25 megabits  per second 
download and 3 megabits per 
second upload (25/3).In 2020 alone, Windstream secured approximately $23 million 
in state and local grants to deploy fiber to the home (FttP) to 
approximately 8,000 locations, enabling speeds of 1 gigabit per 
second while also increasing speeds to another approximately 
5,000 locations of at least 25 megabits per second download 
and 3 megabits per second upload (25/3). Many of those can 
experience speeds up to 100 megabits per second download. 
Prior to 2020, our participation in state and local grant programs 
yielded about $11 million in funding to deliver broadband to about 
9,000 locations. At the federal level, Windstream has participated 
in many programs over the years 
with 2020 being the final year to meet 
our Connect America Fund phase 2 
(CAF2) obligations. Windstream met, 
and in many cases greatly exceeded, 
our obligations to provide at least 10 
megabits per second download and 
1 megabit per second upload (10/1) 
to approximately 405,000 locations 
across 17 states. We brought at least 
10/1 speeds to approximately 516,000 
locations in CAF2 areas in those 
states. In the same way, Windstream 
overachieved as 64% of those locations 
can receive speeds of at least 25/3 (30% can get at least 100 megabits per second download speeds). 
In November 2020, the Federal Communications Commission 
(FCC) concluded the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund (RDOF) reverse 
auction. Windstream was successful in securing funding to deliver 
FttP services to approximately 193,000 locations across 18 states. 
We were the 5th winningest bidder in the auction and 4th in our 
ILEC states, securing $53 million annually in funding. RDOF funds 
are to be used to serve locations within census blocks that no 
provider claims they can offer service of at least 25/3.
Moving forward, we plan to have a fiber-focused 
approach to our broadband builds. Windstream has 
committed the necessary funds to fuel our robust 
capital investment program to expand 1 gigabit 
per second broadband service in rural America. 
We are committed to bringing the speeds needed 
to enable working from home, digital learning, and 
telehealth to our customers. Broadband service is a 
community growth driver and we are committed to 
our communities and our customers.
22Our consumer segment, Kinetic by Windstream, works closely with our agency partners and internal creative teams to ensure that the 
people we portray in our videos and advertisements visually reflect and celebrate the diversity of our company and the communities 
we serve.
Additionally, we are committed to ensuring that our digital brand presence ( windstream.com , myWIN portal) adhere to accessibility 
guidelines and requirements so that people with disabilities (vision impairments, etc.) can access and understand all of the critical 
information therein.ACCESSIBILITY 
23
Closed Captioning  
Closed captioning provides a method for allowing speech and 
other sounds to be displayed as text on the screen. 
Screen Reader  
Screen readers function to assist the visually impaired by 
transferring information through a non-visual method, such as 
text to speech. They typically provide an audio description of all 
elements located on the screen.
Description Tracks  
Description tracks are supplemental, and separate audio tracks 
that describe visual content of a program. By enabling description 
tracks, the visually impaired will receive greater detail about the 
content on the screen, including information about the scene 
changes, characters, actions and other visual details. Most 
platforms are currently limited in their ability to support additional 
description tracks.FCC Audio Accessibility  
Kinetic TV (MobiTV) has provided CVAA (Audio Accessibility) 
compliance for all of our client applications on a 10-foot experience 
(Android TV, Fire TV, Apple TV and Roku). This feature enables end 
users with visual impairments to interact and manage the client 
through audio feedback for all the components and features.
Users on client versions 1.13 and above can turn on the audio 
guide through their device settings. Once turned on, the feature 
will provide audio feedback for the following components:
 • Login Screen • Main Nav  
 • Home screen • EPG 
 • Shows • Movies 
 • Inline info modules • Content details/descriptions  
 • Buttons • Recordings 
 • Media Player Controls • Alerts 
 • Transition Overlays • Filters 
 • Play Options Overlay  • Actions items
Voice to text from search screen 
If your Bluetooth-enabled STB remote has an inbuilt microphone, 
use it to do voice search within the app. Go to Search option on the 
main menu in app, press and hold the microphone button on the 
remote to dictate the Search. The dictated keywords display search 
results similar to any typed search text.
On-Screen Keyboard  
Depending on which device and operating system (Android or iOS) 
the Kinetic TV subscriber is using, the native app keyboard will be 
available. Accessibility Features – Kinetic TV 24Our Voice product offers the following Accessibility features:
Caller ID Deluxe – Caller ID displays Name and Number  
Kinetic Voice Manager – Web Interface that allows access and  
management of select calling features, access contacts, missed calls and  
Visual Voicemail.
Enhanced Call Waiting  – Enhanced Call Waiting lets the customer know  
there is another call coming in while you are already on the phone. 
Voicemail / VM to Email – Within the Voice Manager, customers have the  
ability to set up an email address to receive your Voicemail messages.  
When a voicemail occurs, customers will receive an email that contains a link to  
you Voice Manager account. Once logged into the account, customers will be able 
to hear/retrieve the message. From within the Voice Manager customers will have 
the ability to forward the voicemail to other email addresses.
Caller ID on Call Waiting / Spam Call Alert – This feature allows customers to 
view the name and/or number of the calling party on a display unit while they are 
on a call.  
Voicemail Visual (with Speech to Text) – Allows voicemail messages to be 
transcribed into text and read through the Voice Manager.
Distinctive Ring  – Allows customer to have a distinctive ring tone for incoming 
calls from selected numbers. Also includes distinctive tones during Call Waiting. 
Call Selector – Call Selector announces important callers with a special ring.Accessibility Features – Voice
25Kinetic allows our customers to select the features that are right for them and those features 
cover a wide verity of digital security needs. Whether it is computers or devices, wireless cameras, 
door locks or any other type of connected device, Kinetic Secure customers are instantly protected 
on the gateway modems with no action required.
Kinetic customers can take control of their home Wi-Fi network by managing settings with our  
Go Kinetic app, and when they are away from home, we protect users digitally with our “On the 
Go” app. 
Our packages offer options for device protection and software security with antivirus, malware, 
and phishing protection, malicious website blocking, and banking protection. 
Our Digital Security allows users to create profiles for custom control and set up parental controls.
Backed by renowned F Secure products, our software updates itself with new enhancements and 
upgrades delivered behind the scenes so our customers are hands off the technical details. 
We also provide Premium technical support for those times when a customer needs our help 
to set up their software safely and securely or connected devices. Windstream strives to best 
protect our customers by marketing and encouraging proactive consults with our customers at 
the time of service activation versus retroactive troubleshooting with items such as endpoint 
application installation, parental control education, sharing best practices on device and password 
management, and more. 
Other options include identity theft protection with Credit Guard and Protection Plus for wire 
maintenance protection within the customer’s home.
Kinetic is committed to Digital Safety, and we also provide:
• Education to customers around online safety and threat management through blogs, quarterly 
newsletters and social media
• Engagement with Internet Safety Month annually to promote healthy online habits and the need 
for child protection to our customer baseDIGITAL SAFETY
 
How do you protect 
your family?  
Kinetic Secure by Windstream 
offers award winning Internet 
security that lets your family 
safely surf, shop, school, 
work, and more at home  
and on the go.  
26ROBOCALLS 
The problem of unwanted and illegal robocalls, robotexts, and spoofing have steadily increased in recent 
years. Windstream is committed to combating unlawful robocalls and malicious caller ID spoofing as a top 
consumer protection priority.
According to the FCC, unwanted robocalls are far and away the biggest consumer complaint the agency 
receives with over 200,000 complaints each year. Some third-party analytics companies also track unwanted 
robocalls. For example, YouMail, a third-party analytics company, estimates robocalls at 30.5 billion in 2017, 
47.8 billion in 2018, 58.5 billion in 2019, and 19.5 billion by June of 20201. 
Unfortunately, technology makes it cheap and easy to make massive numbers of robocalls and to “spoof” 
caller ID, which occurs when a caller deliberately falsifies the information transmitted to the caller ID 
display to disguise their identity. 
Spam Identiﬁcation Active Call BlockingFramework for TrustElective Call PreventionLOGO
COLOR
HEX# 
RGB 
CMYK 
HSB #0098B8 
0, 152, 184 
80, 24, 20, 0 
191, 100, 72 
HEX# 
RGB 
CMYK 
HSB #A43895 
164, 56, 149 
39, 93, 0, 0 
309, 66, 65 HEX# 
RGB 
CMYK 
HSB #107D83 
16, 125, 131 
89, 35, 45, 8 
183, 88, 52 
HEX# 
RGB 
CMYK 
HSB #3D3993 
61, 57, 147 
93, 94, 2, 0 
242, 61, 58 
HEX# 
RGB 
CMYK 
HSB #21A881 
33, 168, 129 
74, 0, 60, 10 
163, 81, 66 HEX# 
RGB 
CMYK 
HSB #EF6724 
239, 103, 36 
1, 74, 99, 0 
20, 85, 94 HEX# 
RGB 
CMYK 
HSB #EF9123
239, 145, 35 
3, 51, 99, 0 
32, 86, 94 
HEX# 
RGB 
CMYK 
HSB #40AFC9
64, 175, 201 
68, 11, 17, 0 
191, 68, 79 
HEX# 
RGB 
CMYK 
HSB #ED1863
237, 24, 99 
0, 99, 41, 0 
339, 90, 93
HEX# 
RGB 
CMYK 
HSB #6BBE59
107, 190, 89 
61, 0, 87, 0 
109, 53, 75 
HEX# 
RGB 
CMYK 
HSB #58595b
88, 89, 91 
0, 0, 0, 80 
224, 3, 36 
#21A881 To help our customers protect themselves from such 
actions, Windstream has adopted a multifaceted 
approach to mitigate and provide relief to our 
Enterprise and Kinetic customer base as demonstrated 
by the graphic to the right we call SAFE. 
SAFE stands for:
Spam Caller Identification - Complete
Active Call Blocking for Invalid Callers  - Complete
Framework for Trust (STIR/SHAKEN) - In progress, 
expected completion by June 30th, 2021
Elective Call Prevention  – In progress, expected 
to rapidly follow STIR/SHAKEN1. Source: FCC-20-187A1 Advanced Methods to Target and EliminateUnlawful Robocalls27Spam Caller Identification 
In June 2019, Windstream activated a caller-ID based information 
service for all retail Kinetic and Enterprise customers. Using a calling 
number’s reputation score, developed using analysis of calling 
patterns across dozens of carriers nationally, Windstream began 
replacing the Caller Name value for suspected illegal robocallers 
with a SPAM or Fraudulent prefix 
Windstream customers now have the option to accept or reject a 
call based on the calling name and number. The advantage of this 
early approach is that it avoids blocking so-called “false positives” 
and puts control in the hands of the Windstream subscriber.
Active Call Blocking  
Windstream acted quickly to implement blocking based on a set of 
rules the FCC issued starting in 2017. 
Windstream automatically blocks calls originating from: 1) numbers 
that the owner has requested be added to a national Do Not 
Originate (DNO) Registry – so-called incoming only numbers such 
as the IRS Toll Free number and 2) numbers that source from an 
invalid or unassigned number blocks. 
Blocking calls from invalid calling numbers prevents an incredible 
amount of robocalls from ever reaching Windstream subscribers, 
silently and stealthily killing bad calls without our customers even 
knowing that Windstream “has their back.”
Framework for Trust  
On December 30th, 2019, the TRACED Act was signed into law. It 
establishes the STIR/SHAKEN Framework as a trust mechanism 
exchanged between VoIP interconnected carriers. Said another 
way, STIR/SHAKEN permits carriers that exchange traffic via VoIP to 
assign a confidence level to the caller’s identity.That trust level, or Attestation A to C, has three alphabetical scores 
that start at A, to indicate absolute confidence in the caller’s identity, 
to C, to indicate that the original caller is unknown.
Windstream began evaluating solutions and network requirements 
even before the bill was signed into law and participated in the 
industry working group that developed the STIR/SHAKEN standard. 
We fully expect to meet the mandate of June 2021, for production 
implementation.
Elective Call Prevention  
Shortly after the STIR/SHAKEN rollout in 2021, Windstream expects 
to provide our customers with the ability to opt in and opt out of an 
analytics-based blocking solution.
We realize that blocking is not a one-size-fits-all service and expect 
some customers will want to participate while others (such as 
emergency services, public institutions, etc.) either will be reluctant 
or forbidden to selectively block calls.
As a result, we expect a multi-tiered solution to be available to our 
retail customers for elective call blocking, ranging from complete 
blocking of all calling numbers with suspicious call behaviors to a 
customizable blocking solution tailored to each customer’s needs.
Windstream is committed to blocking unwanted and illegal 
robocalls, robotexts, and spoofing in order to prevent unwanted 
and illegal robocalls. As we move into 2021, Windstream is fully 
prepared and equipped to further protect our customers and 
restore their trust in voice calling. 28Windstream maintains an open Internet for our customers and 
manages our network with one goal: to deliver the best possible 
broadband Internet experience to all of our customers. We strive to 
provide the best customer experience for all types of applications. 
So long as traffic on our network is not malicious or harmful, we 
will NOT:
• Block lawful content or traffic on the basis of applications, 
services, users, or classes of applications sourced from, or 
destined to, the public Internet; or
• Throttle lawful content or traffic on the basis of applications, 
services, users, or classes of applications sourced from, or 
destined to, the public Internet.
Managing the network is essential to promoting the use and 
enjoyment of the Internet by all of Windstream’s customers. 
To ensure the best possible customer experience, Windstream 
employs reasonable, tailored network management practices that are consistent with industry standards. Such practices ensure that 
all customers and application providers have access to a fair share 
of Windstream’s network while not unreasonably discriminating in 
transmitting lawful broadband traffic, but do not include affiliated 
prioritization or paid prioritization. 
Just as the Internet continues to change and evolve, so too will 
Windstream’s network management practices adapt to address the 
challenges and threats on the Internet. By engaging in reasonable 
and responsible network management, Windstream can deliver 
the best possible broadband Internet experience to all of its 
customers.
Further information regarding our network practices and 
performance, device attachment rules, and commercial terms 
is available at: https://www.windstream.com/about/legal/
broadband-network-statement.OPEN INTERNET 
29Windstream recognizes that protecting data privacy is fundamental to maintaining 
the trust of our customers and growing our business. According to a Pew Research 
Center study, 79% of U.S. adults report being concerned about the way their data 
is being used by companies2. Respecting consumers’ privacy is not only a smart 
strategy for inspiring trust in us, it represents aspects of our core values. As 
such, Windstream constantly monitors emerging federal, state, and even 
international laws that relate to the way we handle data privacy and  
protect our customer’s identities, and we update our processes and 
procedures as needed. We have established and continue to develop 
strong privacy protection measures to secure our customers’ and 
employees’ private information.
For instance, Windstream has adopted policies and procedures 
governing how we collect, use, retain and protect data. Such 
information is contained in Windstream’s Privacy Policy located 
on Windstream’s main customer-facing website. Our compliance 
with privacy protection is conducted under the oversight of our 
chief information security officer, who reviews and discusses 
data privacy risks and mitigating actions with the Audit 
Committee of our Board of Managers on a regular basis. 
Windstream also has established a Privacy Committee 
with representatives from across the entire company 
to ensure we maintain the highest levels of data 
protection. Our policies and procedures are subject 
to controls such as internal audits, observations, 
testing, employee and vendor training, and internal 
attestations that all serve to promote ongoing 
compliance throughout the business. PRIVACY AND DATA PROTECTION 
2. Source: Pew Research – Key takeaways on Americans’ views  
    about privacy, surveillance and data-sharing30Windstream Protects Personal Data  
Windstream endeavors to protect and maintain control over 
customer’s data at every contact point.
Collection/Use:  We collect and use information according to 
our publicly available Privacy Policy and, in the case of business 
customers, according to our contracts. Our policies and practices 
are designed to protect and respect consumers’ privacy and the 
choices consumers make concerning the use of their data. 
Disclosure:  In general, we share information within Windstream 
and with vendors and partners as described in our privacy policies 
and according to our customers’ consent. We take measures in 
our contracts with third-party vendors to protect information we 
disclose. We permit vendors to use this data only for the purpose 
for which we provide it. 
Data retention:  We maintain corporate policies governing data 
retention and review our practices at least annually as part of 
our continual assessment of privacy requirements. Under our 
practices and policies, we retain personally identifiable and other 
sensitive records only as long as reasonably necessary for business, 
accounting, tax or legal purposes. 
To meet our ethical and legal commitments to protect personal 
data, Windstream has developed and continues to develop   
 
 
information security requirements for its employees and suppliers 
who handle customer data, according to federal, state, and 
international standards. 
To ensure we secure customers’ data securely, Windstream has 
technical, administrative, and physical safeguards in place to 
limit information security risks and cyber threats. Windstream’s 
chief information security officer (CISO) is responsible for leading, 
and as appropriate, coordinating, enterprise-wide information 
security strategy, policy, standards, architecture, and processes. 
Windstream’s CISO regularly coordinates with other stakeholders 
throughout the company to ensure Windstream’s safeguards are 
active and working. 
In 2019 and 2020, we updated our Privacy Policy to be fully 
compliant with recent changes in the law including the California 
Consumer Privacy Act and recent amendments thereto under the 
California Privacy Rights Act. While these laws only protect California 
state residents, we have adopted the goals and purposes of these 
laws as our standard across the company. 
Windstream is committed to ensuring and maintaining the privacy 
of its customers. Through these measures, it has established the 
requisite tools, policies, and procedures to meet this standard.
31Windstream takes protecting the security of our systems and networks very 
seriously. To more effectively address the cybersecurity threats posed today, 
Windstream has a dedicated chief information security officer (CISO) whose 
team is responsible for leading enterprise information security strategy, 
policy, standards, architecture, and processes. The primary goal of the 
information security program is to adequately protect the data collected, 
generated, created, stored, managed and transmitted or otherwise 
handled by Windstream so as to best serve the interests of shareholders, 
customers, employees and other constituents. Windstream’s comprehensive 
information security program includes, among other aspects, risk 
management, vulnerability management, antivirus and malware protection, 
file integrity monitoring, encryption, access control, data loss prevention and 
threat detection and response. The CISO leads the review and discussion of 
Windstream’s cyber risks, threats, and protections with the Audit Committee 
of the Board of Managers quarterly and throughout the year, as warranted.  
Identifying data security risks and managing vulnerabilities
Windstream operates in a highly competitive, increasingly complex and ever-
changing business environment. To safeguard our systems and information, 
we continually upgrade security governance and protocols to reflect changes 
in technology, potential risks and business needs. To that end, Windstream 
has a comprehensive Security Vulnerability Patch Management program. 
The program is designed to reduce attack surfaces by proactive application 
of vendor security updates as well as the detection and management of 
vulnerabilities within Windstream through the following methods:CYBERSECURITY Framework. Our Security Vulnerability Patch 
Management policy which outlines the patching 
approach, remediation schedule and SLA and personnel 
responsibilities necessary to sustain a healthy and well-
balanced program.
Risk identification. We continually assess the threat and 
vulnerability landscape using various commercial, vendor, 
government, and publicly available information sources.
Risk detection. We use Static Application Security Testing 
(SAST), Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST), on a 
scheduled and real-time basis to identify vulnerabilities 
within our network infrastructure. Additionally, 
Approved Scanning Vendor are used to conduct external 
vulnerability scanning services to validate adherence 
with the external scanning requirements of PCI DSS 
Requirement 11.2.2.
Risk evaluation.  Identified vulnerabilities are assigned 
a severity classification based on their evaluated risk 
using an industry standard scoring model. Vulnerabilities 
are then reported to the appropriate asset owners 
and custodians for remediation. If remediation is not 
feasible within the policy timeframe, a plan of action 
and milestone is developed and tracked. In rare 
circumstances, an exception may be approved, which 
is tracked in a central system of record as mitigating or 
compensating controls are considered and deployed.
Metrics and reporting. We collect and retain data 
for reporting purposes and to enhance management 
accountability for remediation of vulnerable assets. We 
also use the data to assess threat trends and for strategic 
planning of ongoing program improvements.32Windstream aims to create and foster a workforce that reflects and contributes to the diverse communities in which we do business. Their 
passion, purpose and diversity are essential in our ability to deliver world class technology solutions. Each of our employees offer a unique set 
of ideas, beliefs and skills shaped by their heritage, background and culture. We consider this diversity to be an important resource and we 
strive to foster an environment where employees feel included, respected and comfortable bringing their whole and authentic self to work.HUMAN CAPITAL GUIDING PRINCIPLES
OUR WORKFORCE BY THE NUMBERS 
Race/Ethnicity  (% of U.S. workforce) 2020 2019 20182020 # of 
Employees
White 83% 83% 83% 8,746
Black/African American 9% 9% 9% 941
Hispanic/Latino 4% 4% 4% 427
Asian 2% 2% 2% 189
Two or More Races 1% 1% 1% 126
American Indian/Alaska Native 1% 1% 1% 71
Not Specified/Applicable 0.3% 0.2% 0.2% 32
Native Hawaiian/Other Pac Island 0.3% 0.3% 0.4% 30Diversity (% of U.S. workforce) 2020 2019 2018
Caucasian 83% 83% 83%
Non-Caucasian 17% 17% 17%
Gender (% of U.S. workforce) 2020 2019 2018
Male 70% 69% 69%
Female 30% 31% 31%
Gender (% of Int’l workforce) 2020 2019 2018
Male 85% 83% 84%
Female 15% 17% 16%
Gender  (% of worldwide workforce) 2020 2019 2018
Male 70% 69% 69%
Female 30% 31% 31%Senior Leadership Diversity 2020 2019 2018
Percentage of non-Caucasian in 
total US management (VP and 
above)10% 7% 6%
Percentage of women in US 
management (VP and above)19% 17% 21%
Percentage of non-Caucasian in 
total US senior management (SVP 
and above)7% 3% 3%
Percentage of women in US senior 
management (SVP and above)14% 10% 7%Workforce 2020 2019 2018
U.S. Employees 99.7% 99.7% 99.7%
International employees 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
Veterans 2020 2019 2018
Number of veterans 1,255 1,432 1,262
Number of veteran spouses 126 130 121
Total Veteran and Military Spouses 
Employed (% of U.S. workforce)13% 14% 12%33Windstream is committed to a workplace free from unlawful 
discrimination and harassment and does not tolerate discriminatory 
or harassing behavior of any kind. Our robust harassment and 
discrimination prevention policy applies to any conduct that has the 
purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive 
work environment. Employees who believe they have been the 
subject of, or is aware of, discrimination, harassment or retaliation 
can report this in a number of ways—to their supervisor, to their 
assigned human resources business partner or other member 
of the HR department or to the Windstream ethics helpline via 
telephone or online. All complaints are handled in a prompt, 
confidential manner, and information is only shared on a need-
to-know basis. All complaints are investigated, and any acts of 
discrimination, harassment or retaliation are addressed and 
remedied with appropriate corrective action, up to and including 
termination of employment. In addition, Windstream prohibits 
any form of retaliation against employees who make complaints 
and committing an act of retaliation alone is prohibited and can be cause for appropriate corrective action, including termination  
of employment. 
All Windstream employees are expected to participate in 
harassment prevention training intended to reinforce the 
company’s commitment to a diverse, inclusive, and respectful 
work environment free from discrimination and harassment. 
Furthermore, all employees at Windstream are encouraged to 
participate in unconscious bias and diversity training to further 
foster a work environment of fairness, awareness, and sensitivity. 
Windstream respects our employees’ rights to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining in compliance with applicable 
law, including the right to join or not join worker organizations 
(labor unions). 
Windstream also conducts employee engagement surveys to 
all employees to gauge satisfaction and engagement across 
the company. Anonymized, aggregated results are shared by 
department and for Windstream, as a whole.COMMITTED TO RESPECTFUL WORKPLACE 
34Gender Pay Equality 
Windstream believes strongly in gender pay equality.  We regularly monitor and report 
on potential compensation inequities to senior leadership and people managers as 
part of a formal initiative to assist in closing gaps.  This initiative is overseen by our 
Chief Human Resource Officer.
Health & Wellness
In addition to providing a comprehensive benefits package to employees that 
includes medical, dental, vision, health savings and flexible spending accounts, 
life insurance, disability benefits, parental leave benefits, and a 401(k) retirement 
plan with company matching contributions, Windstream supports the overall 
health and well-being of our employees with a full menu of activities and 
resources to assist them with maintaining and improving their overall health. 
Windstream employees receive up to seven paid company holidays, five 
optional holidays that may be taken to celebrate ethnic, cultural, religious 
or other significant observances; an additional one-time optional holiday 
is awarded with the employee’s first year service anniversary and with 
each five year service milestone thereafter; depending on years of 
service from two to five weeks of paid vacation time; up to five days of 
paid bereavement time; and a comprehensive sick pay program of up 
to 7 paid days that covers absences for one’s own needs or the needs 
of a family member, and includes one employee wellness day and 
even a day for pet bereavement. Benefits vary for our unionized 
employees as set forth in their collective bargaining agreements.EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION  
AND BENEFITS 
35Tobacco Cessation  
The Magellan tobacco cessation program offers app and coaching 
based tobacco cessation support. Tobacco cessation supplements 
are also included in the medical plan. 
Windstream’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP)  
Windstream offers an Employee Assistance Program through 
Magellan. From online information to confidential consultations 
with licensed behavioral health professionals, employees and 
their families have access to a wealth of practical, solution-focused 
resources to help them reduce stress, strengthen relationships, 
increase productivity and improve quality of life.
Progyny  
Progyny specializes in offering families a variety of options for 
infertility treatment – with proven success. With over 450 clinics, 
Progyny offers a wide network of specialists.
WW International  
Windstream partners with WW International, formerly known as 
Weight Watchers, to change employees’ relationship with food, for 
good. Try their proven weight-loss approach and powerful group 
support at a 50% discount. Windstream will pay half the membership 
cost of online access or online plus in-person meetings (meetings 
available to those living in non-franchise locations). Weight Watchers 
is a validated program and approach that supports millions of  
people in their weight management goals. Livongo  
Livongo offers assistance for members seeking support for diabetes, 
hypertension and weight management. These programs are available 
at no cost to medically enrolled employees and spouses who meet 
clinical requirements. Participants receive the Latest Technology 
to Simplify Living with Diabetes including the Livongo connected 
glucometer blood pressure cuff, and scale which automatically 
upload readings, making logbooks and sync cables a thing of the 
past. Livongo enrollees also receive real-time support from coaches 
that includes personalized support provided from the Livongo mobile 
app, secure website, and certified diabetes educators. Participants 
also benefit from unlimited test strips at no cost that are shipped 
directly to the employee’s home with the click of a button.
Grand Rounds  
Included in Windstream’s medical plan, Grand Rounds offers 
participants assistance with identifying high-quality providers and 
facilities, claims support, pre-admission and post-discharge  
support, expert second opinions, online ID cards, and  
clinical expertise for planned and unplanned  
healthcare journeys.Employees can take advantage of the following ongoing Wellness Programs:
36Windstream’s Statement on Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) 
Connecting people in a world of infinite possibilities. At Windstream, 
we celebrate the authenticity and uniqueness of our people and 
ideas. The diverse voices of our employees fuel our innovation and 
the inclusive culture we are building empowers each one of us to 
create amazing customer experiences.
Windstream is committed to promoting and encouraging 
diversity and inclusion for our employees by valuing the range 
of perspectives, ideas and experiences that diversity provides, 
regardless of peoples’ gender, age, language, disability, ethnicity, 
cultural background, sexual orientation, religious belief, education, 
work experience, occupation, socio-economic background, and 
marital status.
Our Vision
Windstream aims to create and foster a workforce that reflects and 
contributes to the diverse communities in which we do business. 
Our employees and culture make the difference for our customers, 
our communities, and for our workplaces. Each of our employees 
offer a unique set of ideas, beliefs and skills shaped by their 
heritage, background and culture. We consider this diversity to be an 
important resource and we strive to foster an environment where employees feel included, respected and comfortable bringing their 
whole and authentic self to work.
Windstream has a Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Council led by 
CEO Tony Thomas and our Senior Leadership Team. The goal of 
the Strategic Council is to prioritize the company’s diversity and 
inclusion efforts, raise awareness throughout the organization and 
educate leaders and employees on its importance. Windstream’s 
Diversity & Inclusion Operational Committee fulfills the goals and 
practices set forth by the Strategic Council. The committee consists 
of a diverse group of 33 employees who possess a wide range of 
industry and leadership experience. 
In October, Windstream partnered 
with other Rochester, N.Y., 
businesses and community 
organizations in the Greater 
Rochester 21-Day Racial Equity 
Challenge. Through broad 
community engagement, the 21-
Day Racial Equity Challenge was 
created to increase awareness of 
critical issues and strengthen the 
community’s capacity to dismantle all forms of racism. Self-directed 
learning opportunities encouraged a deeper understanding of race, 
power, privilege and leadership.
The Operational Committee diligently works to reach the goals 
set forth by the Strategic Council. The Committee’s priorities for 
2020 included the creation of Windstream’s D&I Logo, a quarterly 
newsletter highlighting our diversity & inclusion achievements, a 
focused effort on increasing diversity training for our workforce, the 
37creation of three new Employee Resource Groups – Windstream Black Professionals Network (WBPN), WINPride (LGBTQ+) , and the 
Windstream Ability Resource Group (WARG) for individual with disabilities, diverse talent acquisition recruiting events and revised job 
descriptions to remove biases and be more inclusive. These activities are reported quarterly to the ESG Committee. Current activities 
include: 
We’re proud to receive multiple recognitions for our D&I program and initiatives such as a  
Top Employer of Women and Top LGBTQ+ Employer. See the full list of awards.
Learn more about our culture and diversity here: Culture & Diversity
•  Providing employees with a D&I Toolkit to help support the 
company’s initiatives
•  Linking Culture Crew Events with D&I awareness
•  Launching three new courses on inclusivity and create a D&I 
Stream page for leaders•  Publishing a “Day in the Life” series for career and social sites 
•  Leader development program and community service for all ERGs38At Windstream, we understand the important role we play in society. We support charities and nonprofit organizations throughout our 
service territory and partner with them to enhance lives and build stronger and more vibrant communities. We support numerous charitable 
causes, including hunger relief, domestic violence awareness, breast cancer research and STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts and 
mathematics) initiatives. 
Nonprofit charitable organizations were significantly impacted during the COVID-19 pandemic.  
We provided financial support to organizations in our local communities and collected needed  
items, including food, coats and toys.
Additionally, employees from varying organizations across the company volunteered in our 
Culture Crews to lead activities and events that demonstrate and celebrate our cultural 
values. These crews coordinated employee events and hosted charitable fundraisers across 
our employee base. 
Windstream also provided technology grants to help Lexington, Ky., businesses in the 
downtown area reopen while adhering to new operating guidelines during the pandemic. 
The grants were part of the Downtown Lexington Management District and Downtown 
Lexington Partnership’s Reopening and Recovery Grant Program.HUMAN PROSPERITY (PHILANTHROPY) 
39
Kinetic by Windstream partners with St. Jude 
Children’s Research Hospital
Kinetic by Windstream raised more than $100,000 during the St. Jude Thanks and Giving® campaign in 2020. For every 
new Internet customer during the campaign, Kinetic donated $5 to support the kids and families at St. Jude Children’s 
Research Hospital®.
“The kindness and compassion that our partners share year after year during the St. Jude Thanks and Giving campaign 
is truly invaluable,” said Marlo Thomas, national outreach director for St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital. “This holiday 
season was like no other, but one thing remained certain, the outpouring of generosity from our St. Jude family. Our 
partners, their employees and customers continue to have big hearts for the children of St. Jude and their support  
helps ensure our doctors and researchers will continue their tireless work to end childhood cancer and other life-
threatening diseases.”
Jeff Small, president of Kinetic, agreed. “While 2020 presented 
unique challenges for both our customers and our 
employees, we are proud to have met 
each opportunity to provide critical 
connections to our customers and 
also the wider communities we 
serve through campaigns like this 
one,” Small said.
40Diversity Conferences & Partnerships
Windstream sponsors multiple diversity-focused organizations to build our employer brand and recruit diverse talent. These conferences 
and partnerships include:
Black Business Support Fund
November 2020, Kinetic by Windstream 
announced the creation of the Black Business 
Support Fund in two cities served by the 
company. The goal is to increase the number and 
stability of blacked-owned business in its service 
footprint. Businesses selected for grants will 
receive free Kinetic Business Internet for a year 
and a cash award up to $5,000. The business 
will also get a free business consultation from 
Kinetic Business on the processes and products 
that could improve efficiencies and make their 
business more profitable.KEY PARTNERS 
Society of Women Engineers
41Women’s Foundation of Arkansas
Windstream is supporting the Tjuana Byrd 
Summer Internship Program in 2021. This 
is a 10-week summer internship program 
for women of color attending college in 
Arkansas and pursuing degrees in Science, 
Technology, Engineering, & Mathematics 
(finance and related majors included). 
The internship will pay an hourly wage, 
provide free housing for the duration 
of the program, access to mentorship 
and networking events, and professional 
development workshops. Company 
executives have also agreed to participate 
in diversity, equity and inclusion training 
provided by the WFA prior to the program. 
This internship program is intentionally 
designed to increase access to and 
representation in these fields for women of 
color in Arkansas by eliminating barriers of 
cost, social capital, and location.
We believe the values and beliefs instilled in military personnel shape them into 
the types of people we want to hire, and we take our commitment to their futures 
seriously. That’s why we’re committed to hiring veterans and their spouses. We want 
proven leaders like them, who have a diverse skill set and ready to make a difference in 
our workforce. In 2020, we hired 173 veterans and 10 military spouses. 
We’re proud to have more than 1,255 veterans and 126 military spouses serving our 
customers. Our military leave policy allows our service members to continue serving 
their country when needed. When service members are called up to active duty, we 
bridge the gap between military pay and their current pay to care for their family 
members and their financial and healthcare needs, subject to the terms of collective 
bargaining agreements. We’re proud to receive multiple recognitions for our work with 
veterans and spouses from various organizations such as Military Friendly™ Top Ten 
Employer #5 and Military Friendly™ Top Ten Spouse Employer #4.  
See the full list of awards.VETERANS 
42Diversity is vital for Windstream’s ability to grow and innovate 
in a fast-changing environment. Employee Resource 
Groups (ERGs) are an integral component of Windstream’s 
commitment to help us drive change in diversity and 
inclusion allowing us to capitalize on the extraordinary 
resources of our employees. ERGs support Windstream’s 
commitment to promoting diversity and inclusion, as 
well as employees’ professional development. We 
celebrate the authenticity and uniqueness of our 
people and their ideas. We want to have the best 
team possible and to remove barriers and establish 
an inclusive culture so every employee can realize 
their full potential and bring their whole and 
authentic selves to work.
We have five ERGs, each with its own mission. All 
work together toward four common objectives: 
• Support and Encourage Development  
Within Each Other
• Engagement and Inclusion 
• Advance the Company’s Business Goals
• Ambassadors for the Company’s 
Diversity & Inclusion Initiatives 
Learn more about our ERGs here: 
Windstream ERGsEMPLOYEE RESOURCE 
GROUPS 
43Windstream Veteran Employee Resource Group (WINVets)       
Mission: Windstream’s Veteran Employee Resource Group program is designed to support Windstream’s initiative 
regarding outreach, recruitment, and retention efforts in the military and veteran communities. Our mission is to be the 
pillar for our veterans, military spouses and active Guard & Reserve members; by providing networking opportunities, 
empowering information, and career development that equips each individual to excel in their new career paths.
Women of Windstream (WOW)
Mission: To connect and empower women by creating an inclusive environment for forming supportive relationships 
and realizing career enhancing experiences. Windstream’s Women of Windstream (WOW) program is designed to recruit, 
retain, promote, develop and to support Windstream’s women both professionally and personally.
WIN Pride            
Mission: The Windstream Pride employee resource group seeks to increase LGBTQ+ cultural awareness to foster 
an environment of inclusion for all Windstream Employees. The ERG provides a venue for networking, socialization, 
professional development, and discussion of LGBTQ+ issues and concerns. WIN Pride encourages and assists 
Windstream in its efforts to achieve greater market share among the LGBTQ+ community.
Windstream Black Professionals Network (WBPN)
Mission: We are committed to providing a supportive environment for all African American/Black employees that 
promotes opportunities for personal and professional development while also enhancing cultural awareness and 
inclusion across our organization. WBPN inspires and supports Windstream’s efforts regarding outreach, recruiting and 
retention in the African American Community.
Windstream Ability Resource Group (WARG)
Mission: To foster an environment of inclusion and a culture that welcomes people of all abilities while continually 
seeking opportunities to better serve our employees with disabilities. The WARG promotes equity for employees with 
disabilities in all aspects of recruiting, onboarding, and retention in accordance with Windstream’s diversity and inclusion 
efforts. We strive to be an Employer of Choice for people with disabilities.PRIDEPRIDE
WINDSTREAM LGBTQ+ EMPLOYEE 
RESOURCE GROUP
WOMEN OF WINDSTREAMWOWWOW
WINDSTREAM BLACK
PROFESSIONALS NETWORKWBPNWBPNWINDSTREAM VETERAN EMPLOYEE
RESOURCE GROUPWINVETSWINVETS
WARGWARG
WINDSTREAM ABILITY
RESOURCE GROUP44Windstream has an 
annual average target of 
at least 30 training hours 
per employee. With and 
average of 67.99 hours 
in 2020, Windstream 
exceed this goal for  
the year.Learning and Development 
The workforce is changing in multiple ways that impact the way we hire, onboard, reskill, and 
upskill our employees. As our workforce consists of all five generational groupings and our hiring 
is shifting towards Generation Z, it’s imperative that we support a variety of learning styles and 
delivery methods. 
Our Learning & Development philosophy is aligned into 3 pillars. 
Unified Search – Using connected technology to help our 
employees find what they need across multiple platforms. 
Microlearning  – Ensuring that the learning content is narrowly 
focused and easy  
to consume. 
Multichannel Delivery  – Making the content available wherever 
our employers are and on whatever device they’re using. 
Learning culture 
Our learning culture is focused on providing meaningful learning content that addresses the 
skills our employees need to best fulfill their current role and any future roles that they seek. 
One of our top initiatives is to continually increase the percentage of employees who voluntarily 
find learning content. This keeps us centered on making sure that all content is easy to find and 
relevant. 
• In 2020, we invested approximately $4 million in learning and development initiatives for our 
employees. 
• Our employees completed more than 720,000 hours of training and had access to more than 
4,000 learning opportunities including over 400 microlearning videos. 
• The average number of hours completed per employee is greater than 65. LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT 
Unified Search
Using connected technology to help 
you find what you need
Microlearning
Bite-sized nuggets, narrowly focused, 
part of larger curriculums
Multichannel
Making this content available 
wherever you are and whatever 
device you’re usingEverything we do is aligned 
with these pillars. 
45Engaging our employees
In 2020, we launched Skill Connect. Powered by Brainier, Skill Connect is our employee’s portal to a world of Learning 
and Development. Our goal in releasing this update was to provide one simplified destination for all things related to 
learning. With advanced search and browse functions, and curated bundles, we made learning content easier to find, 
easier to launch, and easier to view on any device. 
Through the new portal, we now offer direct access to a variety of learning content including classes, online 
training, videos, links, and articles. The addition of Validations enabled us to utilize this system to validate  
skill transfer for complex learning situations such as Working Aloft and OSHA compliance providing our 
employees and trainers a more consistent way to measure and acknowledge successful knowledge transfer  
and task completion. 
To bring the content closer to the user and remain aligned with our L and D pillars, in 2020, we made over 
400 microlearning videos available to our employees. These videos are typically 3-6 minutes long, and 
specifically aligned with a single task or skill. We embedded links to these “how-to” videos directly into the 
systems they are designed for. This ensures our employees do not have to leave the system they are 
currently working in to find helpful training. 
Future Learner Experience
As we continue to prepare for the Future Learner 
Experience, we are currently researching and 
investing in augmented reality and additional future 
technology such as:
• The ability for Field Operations technicians to 
quickly grab training for complex equipment by 
snapping a picture of the equipment while in 
the field. 
• An advanced podcasting platform to bring a 
broader range of content to our employees delivered on their device of choice
• Continued advancement in Machine Learning in order to recommend relevant content to 
employees based on interests, past experience, and correlation to others in similar roles. 
46Occupational Health and Safety 
Windstream provides a safe, healthy, and alcohol/drug-free workplace for employees 
and visitors across all of its facilities. We are committed to complying with all applicable 
environmental laws and safety regulations. Accordingly, employees are (i) frequently 
trained to identify and immediately report unsafe or hazardous conditions or 
suspected violations of the law, and (ii) expected to follow all applicable safety, 
health, and environmental laws, as well as Windstream’s internal policies  
and practices. When incidents do occur, Windstream performs a root  
cause analysis to evaluate if enhancements to our safety policies and 
practices or training would be beneficial and impactful to maintaining  
a safe workplace.
Environmental, Health & Safety (EH&S) Committees in our local 
offices play an important role in keeping our workplace safe. These 
committees afford employees and management the opportunity 
to provide feedback on any safety related concerns and weigh 
in on potential resolutions before any accidents or injuries 
occur. Each committee selects a safety representative 
who meets quarterly with the Corporate EH&S team 
to provide updates on safety awareness, training 
initiatives, equipment needs and any local accidents 
or injuries.
Additionally, local facility personnel participate 
in the development and implementation 
of their own sites’ specific emergency 
procedures based on guidelines from 
the corporate Emergency Action SAFETY 
47Plan (EAP). Facility managers and employees adopt steps to 
ensure safe evacuation of employees and visitors in the event of 
actual emergencies. Responsible parties are identified, based on 
facility needs, and periodic evacuation drills are held to ensure 
understanding of individual roles and compliance with  
conforming standards.
Our commitment and reputation to safety standards is appreciated 
by our vendors. Windstream is often trusted by vendors to test 
new or modified equipment in the field and provide feedback. 
The vendors use that feedback to further develop or modify their 
products and safety standards. 
For 2020, our occupational injuries and illnesses rate was 1.9 per 
100 employees, which is significantly lower than the latest published 
Bureau of Labor Statistics telecommunications industry average 
of 2.8, further evidencing Windstream’s unyielding commitment to 
maintaining a safe workplace for our employees. Safety Training and Awareness
Windstream’s EH&S and Risk Management teams continually 
provide guidance on the company’s safety policies and procedures. 
Our overarching goal is to continuously improve and implement 
change that will result in an enhanced safety environment for our 
employees and minimize incidents. To achieve our goal, we provide 
effective safety training courses to ensure employees understand 
how to perform their functions in a safe manner and to proactively 
prevent accidents. In support of our goal, Windstream employees 
receive over 42,000 hours of safety and environmental related 
training annually. Windstream is fully committed to our employee’s 
safety and we expect our employees to share in this commitment.
Recently, we implemented a program to identify and reduce ladder 
weight. The EH&S team worked diligently to identify industry 
ladders that would perform the desired function at a reduced 
weight. By providing lighter ladders, we expect to improve our 
employees’ day-to-day work environment and reduce both the 
frequency and severity of ladder-related injuries.
48We have a long history of working with the 
Communications Workers of America and the 
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. 
We meet with union leaders to talk about key 
issues, including safety, customer service, 
plans to improve operational processes, our 
business performance and the impacts that 
changing technology and competition are 
having on our customers, our employees 
and the company. 
In keeping with Windstream’s history 
of providing high-quality service and 
good jobs, our collective bargaining 
agreements continue to provide our 
team members with competitive 
wages and valuable benefits.LABOR RELATIONS 
49Windstream engages a global supply base of over 4,000 vendors 
to purchase more than $3.2 billion in goods and services 
annually, which include items such as consumer modems, 
network equipment, construction services, and utilities. We 
remain committed to responsible sourcing and it is the policy of 
Windstream to conduct business in a manner that is ethical and 
promotes the best interests of its customers, employees, and 
investors. Windstream expects suppliers to be ethical and honest, 
obey all applicable health, safety and environmental laws, and 
protect confidential and proprietary information. 
We rely on our strategic sourcing process, and the Supplier Code of 
Ethics (“Code”) to enforce our commitment to responsible sourcing. 
The Code is intended to assist suppliers in meeting Windstream’s 
expectations.
Among other guidelines and requirements, our code:
-  Forbids the use of child labor, forced labor and discrimination
-  Addresses our expectations around health and safety, minimum 
living wages, maximum working hours, and acceptable living 
conditions
-  Protects employees’ rights to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining, as permitted by local laws
-  Describes how suppliers should work with us on  
compliance and enforcement issuesWindstream reserves the right to review or audit our suppliers’ 
compliance with the code. Our Supply Chain and Procurement 
teams engage with suppliers identified as non-compliant with 
our Code to assist them in reaching compliance.  Our Code also 
outlines the formal channels for vendors and supply chain workers 
to raise concerns and report potential violations.  Our Code is 
incorporated into our legally binding agreements with suppliers 
and outlines our expectations, including compliance with social 
standards.  Incumbent and prospective vendor performance 
regarding social performance is evaluated during Windstream’s 
formal vendor selection process.  The full Code is available online.
Our chief procurement officer is responsible for overseeing and 
managing Windstream’s supply chain and vendor performance.  
Supply chain and vendor performance metrics and KPIs, along with 
any vendor compliance issues or incidents, are monitored and 
reported monthly to senior management.  Windstream’s supply 
chain profile, and our core operating and risk mitigation strategies, 
are also reviewed by our Board periodically as needed.  SUPPLY CHAIN 
50Windstream strongly believes that our supply base should reflect 
the amazing diversity present in the communities we serve. 
We value diversity and inclusion in our supply chain, just as we 
value and celebrate it in our workforce. Diversity brings new 
perspectives and drives innovation. Actively engaging with a  
broad array of diverse suppliers also fosters economic inclusion 
and promotes positive change.
In 2020, we spent more than $64 million on goods and  
services with diverse suppliers, including businesses owned  
by people of color, women, veterans, disabled veterans,  
service-disabled veterans, LGBTQ, certified small businesses,  
and people with disabilities. This amount represents 6.4% of 
annual spending.Responsible Minerals Sourcing
Any connection between the materials used in Windstream’s 
products and armed violence or human rights abuses is 
unacceptable, and we have an internal team that oversees the 
design, development and implementation of our conflict minerals 
compliance program. We also expect our suppliers to take steps 
to ensure that their products do not include materials that either 
directly or indirectly benefit armed groups in the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo (or in any neighboring country). As part of 
their master purchasing agreements with Windstream, suppliers 
agree to provide us with information regarding the country of 
origin and source of conflict minerals used, if any, in the supplier 
goods sold to us. If a supplier is found to be out of compliance 
with these objectives, the supplier is expected to develop, 
implement and document plans to remedy the non-compliance, 
and Windstream has the right to terminate its relationship with the 
supplier in the event of continued non-compliance.
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY51
51
51
IN THIS SECTION
How We Govern 52
Ethics and Compliance 54
Code of Conduct 55
Human Rights 57
GOVERNANCE52Company Governance
Windstream’s 11-member Board of Managers (“Board”) oversees 
the company’s strategic planning, operations and business 
performance, as well as the company’s governance practices, with 
the assistance of Board committees. Our Managers have extensive 
experience in the telecommunications industry, as well as strong 
operational and financial expertise to ensure Windstream’s strategy 
to provide innovative network and software solutions to customers 
is successful. The Board chairman works closely with management 
to ensure the company adheres to the highest standards of 
corporate governance for private companies.
Commitment to Company Culture &  
Non-Discrimination
The Board is committed to working in conjunction with 
management to cultivate a corporate culture that promotes the 
goals reflected in the Working with Integrity Guidelines, which 
governs the conduct of all managers, officers, and employees of the company. Windstream’s corporate culture permeates all aspects  
of the company’s operations, ensuring that its vision, mission  
and objectives are ethically sound and demonstrative of its  
values. To foster a culture that ensures employees understand  
their responsibilities for appropriate behavior, the Board 
periodically reviews the company’s culture initiatives, employee 
engagement matters, and ethics policy to reinforce a corporate 
culture of integrity.
Further, the Board is committed to a respectful, courteous 
workplace in which employees are able to perform their jobs free 
from harassment, discrimination or retaliation. The company does 
not tolerate sexual or other unlawful harassment or discrimination 
by any employee, volunteer, vendor, contractor, consultant, guest, 
customer or visitor, and the Board will expect management to 
implement and update, as appropriate, policies that are consistent 
with this commitment as well as applicable law.HOW WE GOVERN
53ESG Governance
We believe a strong ESG governance program is an 
essential part of good corporate governance, and for 
Windstream, ESG governance starts at the top. The 
Board periodically reviews reports from management 
concerning ESG factors, risks, and initiatives 
applicable to, and undertaken by, the company to 
ensure that ESG matters are integrated into the 
company’s operations and appropriately addressed 
by the company and Board. This includes but is not 
limited to review of this ESG Report. 
Additionally, an ESG Committee of the Board was 
established to oversee and monitor Windstream’s 
significant environmental, social and governance 
and sustainability activities and practices, and 
to provide guidance to management regarding 
the company’s ESG and sustainability strategy. 
The ESG Committee is comprised of five 
Managers and conducts regular quarterly 
meetings, as well as additional meetings as 
needed, and advises Windstream’s internal 
ESG Operational Committee regarding the 
company’s ESG-related initiatives. Further, 
in addition to reviewing and overseeing 
compilation of the company’s annual 
ESG report, the ESG Committee provides 
oversight for all reporting to third party  
ESG rating agencies evaluating the  
company’s ESG performance. 
54Integrity is one of our most valuable assets. Windstream is committed to conducting business in a manner that is ethical, promotes the 
best interests of its stakeholders, employees, and customers and fully complies with all applicable laws and regulations. Windstream 
expects every employee and member of our Board of Managers to be ethical and honest, comply with the law, and avoid any appearance 
of impropriety or conflict of interest. Understanding, embracing and performing our individual jobs in compliance with laws, regulations 
and our internal policies is not only the right thing to do, but it also has a real impact on our financial performance and the character of 
our organization. 
Windstream’s chief compliance officer leads our Ethics and Compliance function and reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board 
of Managers, with administrative reporting to the company’s chief financial officer. The Audit Committee has risk oversight responsibility 
for ethics and compliance across the company. ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE 
55Our Working with Integrity Guidelines (the “Guidelines”) are the 
foundation of our Ethics and Compliance Program and provide 
a road map to assist employees and Board members in 
identifying activities and behaviors that are appropriate when 
conducting business related activities. The Guidelines build 
on our cultural beliefs by outlining expected ethical behaviors 
for our employees, Board members, and other company 
representatives. At all times, Windstream expects employees, 
and employees have an obligation, to uphold and carry out 
our commitment to lawful and ethical business conduct. 
Annual training required of all employees reinforces the 
principals outlined in these Guidelines. Conflict of Interest 
training and reporting is also required for all employees 
annually. This provides employees a forum to report  
any potential conflicts. All conflicts of interest reported  
or identified are evaluated by the Compliance Office  
for appropriateness and corrective active is taken,  
where applicable.
All Windstream employees (as well as third-party 
consultants, agents, independent contractors, 
subcontractors, and partners) who serve government 
clients are responsible for understanding the legal 
requirements and restrictions that apply to their work, 
and must strictly adhere to the principles contained within 
our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct in Governmental 
Contracting. Additionally, Windstream’s Supplier Code 
of Ethics provides basic guidelines and outlines our 
expectations for our suppliers to operate in an ethical CODE OF CONDUCT 
56and honest manner, comply with all laws and regulations, and 
avoid the appearance of impropriety and conflicts of interest. 
One of the most important responsibilities Windstream employees 
have is the obligation to report possible workplace violations of 
law, the Guidelines and our policies. Windstream encourages 
employees to fulfill this responsibility and to seek advice when 
in doubt about the best course of action. We offer several 
alternatives for obtaining compliance advice and reporting possible 
violations of applicable law or these guidelines, including the 
Working with Integrity Helpline and Website, which are staffed 
by an independent third party twenty-four hours per day, seven 
days a week. Employees may report violations anonymously and 
Windstream prohibits any employee from taking retaliatory action 
against anyone for making a good faith report or assisting in an 
investigation of a possible violation. 
Information reported is promptly transmitted to Windstream and 
investigated. Windstream maintains a case management system, 
and when a matter is reported to the helpline or website, it is 
assigned a unique tracking number that enables the individual 
to receive updates on the complaint or subsequently provide 
additional information. Windstream triages all cases to ensure they 
are assigned to the appropriate teams in Security, Legal or Human 
Resources. Investigation results are reported quarterly to the 
Compliance Committee, which is comprised of the chief compliance 
officer, chief financial officer, general counsel and chief human 
resources officer, as well as the company’s Audit Committee. 
Windstream’s Working with Integrity Helpline and  
Website can be reached at 1-888-898-3990 and  
www.windstream.ethicspoint.com , respectfully. Anti-corruption
Windstream expressly prohibits any offer, payment, promise, or 
gift that is intended or appears to influence any person or entity to 
award business opportunities to Windstream or to make a business 
decision in Windstream’s favor. In accordance with the Guidelines 
and Supplier Code of Ethics, employees and suppliers are required 
to comply with all applicable anti-bribery and anticorruption laws of 
the United States, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and 
countries in which operations are being conducted. Additionally, as 
a government contractor, it is important that we conduct business 
with government entities in compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. Accordingly, Windstream prohibits employees from 
giving anything of value to government employees and officials for 
any reason.
Windstream’s
WWI
Working with
Integrityw
w
w.windstream.ethicspoint.com  1-888-898-399057Windstream’s Human Rights Policy outlines our commitment to 
respect human rights, which is reflected in every aspect of our 
operations. Guided by the human rights due diligence framework 
set forth in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights, we are committed to assessing the impacts of our business 
activities on human rights and to addressing adverse impacts. 
Windstream became the fourth U.S.-based telecommunications 
service provider to join the UN Global Compact to promote 
accountability and stakeholder engagement in the areas of human 
rights, labor and environment. Our Human Rights Policy is consistent with the Working with 
Integrity Guidelines and Supplier Code of Conduct. These policies 
address topics such as customer and employee data privacy, 
diversity and inclusion, health and safety, hiring practices, labor 
rights and harassment in the workplace, among other matters. 
Employees and suppliers are expected to respect the rights of 
others and maintain high ethical standards. Windstream does  
not tolerate any abuse of human rights within our business or 
supply chains. HUMAN RIGHTS 
58
58
58
IN THIS SECTION
Definition of Material Issues 59
ESG Data Index 61
GRI Index 64
APPENDIX59Human Rights - Supply Chain
The telecom sector relies on communications, equipment and technology hardware companies to manufacture and assemble products, 
including modems, phones, routers, switches, cables and other communication devices and accessories. Manufacturing is still largely 
concentrated in South East Asia. The risk of potential exposure to material human rights issues in the supply chain, including child and 
forced labor, excessive work hours, inadequate remuneration (living wages), sexual harassment, freedom of association and collective 
bargaining, all represent material ESG issues in our industry. Also included in this issue definition are conflict minerals reporting and 
mitigation requirements. Supplier violations pose reputational and operational risks for telecoms and increased regulatory scrutiny.
Windstream’s exposure to Human Rights Supply-Chain issues was assessed as low by Sustainalytics, similar to the industry average.
Human Capital
Because Windstream provides a specialized technical service, an important pillar of our strategy and success is our 11,000-strong 
workforce, with their skills, knowledge and capabilities. Failure to develop and leverage their skills, and generate high employee 
engagement, could mean losing them to competitors, especially since the labor market competition for technical knowledge is intense. 
This, alongside the any inability to recruit and train qualified team members in a timely manner, could cause operational delays, resulting 
in subpar service, and, potentially, to lost revenues and profits.
Windstream’s exposure to Human Capital issues was assessed as medium by Sustainalytics, similar to the industry average.
Carbon – Own Operations
Windstream’s rural footprint of networks and offices rely on electricity as a source of energy, which contributes to higher carbon intensity 
compared to our industry peers who tend to operate in more densely populated areas of the country. Failure to adhere to energy 
regulation (both current and proposed) could result in additional operating costs in the form of fines and corrective measures. Moreover, 
physical risks such as extreme weather events are also a concern as they could cause damage to network infrastructure.
Windstream’s exposure to Carbon – Own Operations issues was assessed as medium by Sustainalytics, moderately above the  
industry average.DEFINITION OF MATERIAL ISSUES60Product Governance
Product Governance issues in the telecommunication service industry includes service quality, maintaining reliable, high-speed networks, 
and responding to customer billing concerns. The industry is highly regulated and government agencies routinely enforce penalties for 
poor quality service and publicly report on customer complaints. Although fines are not often substantial, telecom regulators have the 
ability to regulate national network upgrades, and can enforce market access for other competitors, impacting business plans for telecom 
services. Investigations for poor service can negatively impact brand value and customer retention. Moreover, telecom companies are 
increasingly aware of climate risks to infrastructure. Natural disasters can cause significant damage to telecom networks and disrupt 
customer service. Unreliable service has the potential to financially impact a company, particularly if a customer is unable to reach 
emergency personnel (fire, medical, police) due to network outages. Widespread outages may result in government investigations and 
fines. Additionally, companies have spent millions of dollars improving their networks after outages, with additional negative impacts 
including higher customer churn rates. Some telecom companies have also been criticized for lacking transparency in their billing 
practices. Class action lawsuits against telecoms for overbilling have led to large settlements. 
Windstream’s exposure to Product Governance issues was assessed as medium by Sustainalytics, similar to the industry average.
Business Ethics
The telecom industry is exposed to Business Ethics risks associated with corruption, IP litigation and anti-competitive practices. The 
industry faces one of the highest rates of intellectual property (IP) litigation, and he second-highest median damages awarded for 
patent litigation, surpassed only by biotech/pharmaceuticals. Telecom companies can face anti-competitive lawsuits for alleged abuse 
of dominant market positions, such as artificially lowering prices temporarily or restricting services to drive competitors out of the 
market. Investigations and litigation following allegations of abuse of market dominance are common in this sector, resulting in legal 
and regulatory fines. Anti-trust concerns may also prevent mergers and acquisitions. There are also regulatory concerns around 
“net neutrality” laws passed in 2015, which make it illegal for internet providers to prioritize some content over others. Companies in 
developed markets may be more exposed to investigations and lawsuits related to anti-competitive practices. Being implicated in ethics 
related incidents may affect a company’s ability to secure financing and/or increase its network coverage area.
Windstream’s exposure to Business Ethics issues was assessed as medium by Sustainalytics, similar to the industry average.
Data Privacy and Security
Windstream provides services to more than 1.3 million residential and small business customers through our Kinetic segment and to 
around 3,200 customers through its Windstream Enterprise segment. Our clients can use our services to communicate highly sensitive 
personal or business information. Any inability to secure the privacy of customer data or being the subject of a cybersecurity breach could 
result in lost trust and business, and lead to regulatory scrutiny and action.
Windstream’s exposure to Data Privacy and Security issues was assessed as medium by Sustainalytics, similar to the industry average.61ESG DATA INDEX
Environmental
Emissions and carbon intensity 2018 2019 2020
Scope 1 emissions (CO2e metric tons) 63,811 60,350 62,956
Scope 2 emissions (CO2e metric tons) 295,451 286,039 232,749
Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions (CO2e metric tons) 359,262 346,389 295,705
Carbon intensity (CO2e metric tons of Scope 1 & 2 / $100M of revenue) 62.92 67.71 63.39
Scope 3 emissions (CO2e metric tons) Not Calculated 479,363 508,403
Scope 3 emissions, business travel only (CO2e metric tons) Not Calculated 5,792 1,908
Total emissions (Scope 1, 2 & 3, CO2e metric tons) Not Calculated 825,752 804,108
Vehicle fuels (CO2e metric tons) 53,145 49,825 54,472
Building and other fuels (CO2e metric tons) 11,084 10,527 8,484
Renewable energy
Number of community solar energy contracts - - 1
% of Scope 2 purchased electricity from renewable sources Not Calculated Not Calculated 16.3%
% of Scope 2 purchased electricity from renewable and carbon-free sources Not Calculated Not Calculated 34.3%
Fleet
Fleet size (# vehicles at year-end) 5,229 4,481 4,338
Fleet fuel consumption (gallons) 5,632,283 5,346,948 5,988,229
E-waste
Pounds of e-waste recycled 286,311 341,273 1,047,699
Pounds of lead acid batteries recycled Not Calculated 33,150 54,011
Pounds of total waste recycled 286,311 374,423 1,102,362
Reuse
# of modems refurbished for redeployment 16,163 42,178 63,526
# of pieces of network and enterprise equipment refurbished for redeployment 23,612 57,563 79,395
# of pieces of equipment sold on the gray market for reuse by others 205 2,849 19,686
Water
Water from owned and leased facilities, where reported (1,000,000 gallons) 260 Pending validation Pending validation
Water usage reduction from 2016 baseline 15% Pending validation Pending validation62Paper and copiers 2018 2019 2020
Reduction in office paper consumption from 2016 baseline 46% 57% 84%
% of office paper with at least 10% PCW content Not Calculated Not Calculated 5%
% of office paper from FSC certified sources Not Calculated Not Calculated 100%
Office printer device reduction from 2018 baseline N/A 21% 43%
Social
Global workforce 2018 2019 2020
US employees (% of total workforce) 100% 100% 100%
International employees (% of total workforce) 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
Race / ethnicity
American Indian / Alaskan Native (% of total U.S. workforce) 1% 1% 1%
Asian (% of total U.S. workforce) 2% 2% 2%
Native Hawaiian / Pacific Islander (% of total U.S. workforce) 0.4% 0.3% 0.3%
Hispanic / Latino (% of total U.S. workforce) 4% 4% 4%
Two or more races (% of total U.S. workforce) 1% 1% 1%
Unknown / undeclared (% of total U.S. workforce) 0.2% 0.2% 0.3%
White (% of total U.S. workforce) 83% 83% 83%
Gender
Gender worldwide 2018 2019 2020
Percentage of total workforce (male) 69% 69% 70%
Percentage of total workforce (female) 31% 31% 30%
U.S. employee profile by gender
Percentage of total workforce (male) 69% 69% 70%
Percentage of total workforce (female) 31% 31% 30%
International employee profiled by gender
Percentage of total workforce (male) 84% 83% 85%
Percentage of total workforce (female) 16% 17% 15%
Senior management ethnicity and gender
% of people of color in U.S. senior management (VP and above) 6% 7% 10%
% of women in U.S. senior management (VP and above) 21% 17% 19%63Health & wellness 2018 2019 2020
Healthcare benefits and services paid $85 million $80 million $76 million
Healthcare benefits and services paid (per employee) $6,500 $6,700 $7,000
Veterans
Number of veteran employees 1,262 1,432 1,255
Number of active-duty military and veteran spouses employed 121 130 126
Total number of veterans and veteran or active-duty military spouses 
employed (% of US workforce)12% 14% 13%
Learning & development
Amount invested in learning and development for our employees $4.5 million $4.6 million $3.5 million
Training hours completed (all employees) 492,337 455,725 720,153
Number of learning experiences that employees have access to Not Calculated Not Calculated 4,115
Average annual hours of training per team member 44.08 37.88 67.99
Tuition Assistance Metrics
Number of team members who took  
advantage of tuition assistance 160 138 117
Amount of tuition assistance provided  $0.4 million  $0.4 million  $0.4 million 
Safety
Occupational injuries and illness rate (per 100 employees) 2.0 2.1 1.9
Supply chain
Diverse supplier spend $196 million $176 million $182 million
Diverse supplier spend (% of total spend) 5.8% 6.0% 6.4%64GRI INDEX 
Disclosure Disclosure title 2020 Response
GRI 102: General disclosures 2016
Organizational profile
102-1 Name of the organization Windstream Services LLC
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services https://www.windstream.com/siteselector 
102-3 Location of headquarters Our Corporate Headquarters is in Little Rock, Arkansas
102-4 Location of operations United States and Canada
102-5 Ownership and legal form Privately held
102-6 Markets served United States and Canada
102-7 Scale of organization As of December 31, 2020, Windstream employed 10,562 teammates
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Social – Our workforce by the numbers
102-9 Supply chain Social – Supply chain
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chainApproach – Message from the President and CEO, emergence from restructuring process as privately-held company in 
September 2020
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Environmental – Business continuity, Environmental – Product stewardship, Governance – How we govern
102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact signatory, CDP Climate Change
102-13 Membership of associations The United States Telecom Association (USTelecom), INCOMPAS
Strategy
102-14 Statement from the senior decision-maker Approach – Message from the President and CEO
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviorGovernance – Ethics and compliance, Social – Human capital: guiding principles  
Supplier Code of Ethics 
Ethics Policy
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethicsGovernance – Code of Conduct
Code of Business Ethics and Conduct in Governmental Contracting
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Approach – Message from the CEO, Approach – ESG strategy, Governance – How we govern
102-19 Delegating authority Approach – Message from the CEO, Approach – ESG strategy, Governance – How we govern
102-20Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social 
topicsApproach – Message from the CEO, Approach – ESG strategy, Governance – ESG governance
102-25 Conflicts of interestGovernance – Ethics and compliance, Governance – Code of Conduct  
Code of Business Ethics and Conduct in Governmental Contracting65Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Approach – Message from the CEO, Environmental – Environmental impact
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social – Labor relations, as of December 31, 2021, 15.6% of employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Approach – ESG priorities, Appendix – Definition of material issues
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Approach – ESG transparency
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Approach – ESG priorities, Appendix – Definition of material issues
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Not applicable (Windstream is privately held)
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Table of contents, Approach – Message from the CEO, Approach – ESG priorities
102-47 List of material topics Approach – ESG priorities, Appendix – Definition of material issues
102-48 Restatements of information None
102-49 Changes in reporting None
102-50 Reporting period January 1, 2020 – December 31, 2020
102-51 Date of most recent report April 22, 2021
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding this report Investorelations@windstream.com 
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI standards: Core option
102-55 GRI content index GRI Index
102-56 External assurance2019 CDP emissions and carbon intensity reporting (Apex) [2020 certification in-process]
Supplier Diversity spend (CVM Solutions)
GRI 200: Economic
GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital Inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Human prosperity
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital Inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Human prosperity
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital Inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Human prosperity
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Environmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital Inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Human prosperity
GRI 300: Environmental
GRI 301: Materials 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Product stewardship, Environmental - Paper
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Product stewardship, Environmental - Paper
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Product stewardship, Environmental - Paper
300-2 Recycled input materials used Environmental – Product stewardship, Environmental – Paper, Appendix – ESG data index
300-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Environmental – Product stewardship, Environmental – Paper, Appendix – ESG data index66GRI 302: Energy 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data index
302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data index
302-3 Energy intensity Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data index
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data index
302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services Environmental – Real Estate, Environmental – Fleet, Environmental - Product stewardship
GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Water consumption, Appendix – ESG data center
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Water consumption, Appendix – ESG data center
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Water consumption, Appendix – ESG data center
303-5 Water consumption Environmental – Water consumption, Appendix – ESG data center
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data center
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data center
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data center
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data center
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissionsEnvironmental – Renewable Energy, Environmental – Real Estate, Environmental – Fleet, Environmental – Our emissions 
by scope, Appendix – ESG data center
GRI 306: Waste 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Product stewardship
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Product stewardship
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Product stewardship
306-1 Waste generated and significant waste-related impacts Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Product stewardship
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Product stewardship
306-4 Waste diverted for disposal Environmental – Product stewardship, Appendix – ESG data center
GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Environmental impact
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Environmental impact67103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Environmental impact
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulationsWindstream has not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations during this reporting 
period
GRI 400: Social
GRI 401: Employment 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Compensation and benefits
103-2 The management approach and its components Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Compensation and benefits
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Compensation and benefits
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover In 2020, Windstream hired 2,154 new employees and total employee turnover was 11%
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employeesSocial – Compensation and benefits, Appendix – ESG data center
401-3 Parental leaveWindstream offers 10 days of paid parental leave to full-time, eligible birth and adoptive parents (mothers and fathers) 
who have continuous employment for the previous 12 months and meet FMLA requirements. The benefit may be used in 
the 12 weeks following the birth or adoption of a child.
GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2018
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social - Safety
103-2 The management approach and its components Social - Safety
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social - Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Social - Safety
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Social - Safety
403-4Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational 
health and safetySocial - Safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Social - Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health Social – Employee compensation and benefits, Social - Safety
403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business relationshipsSocial - Safety
403-8 Workers covered by occupational health and safety management system Social - Safety
403-9 Work-related injuries Social - Safety
403-10 Work-related ill health Social - Safety
GRI 404: Training and education 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social – Learning and development
103-2 The management approach and its components Social – Learning and development
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social – Learning and development
404-1 Average hours of training per employee Social – Learning and development, Appendix – ESG data center68404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Social – Learning and development
404-3Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviews100% of full-time employees
GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Diversity and inclusion
103-2 The management approach and its components Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Diversity and inclusion
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Diversity and inclusion
405-1 Diversity of governing bodies and employees Social – Our workforce by the numbers, Appendix – ESG data center
GRI 413: Local communities 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaryEnvironmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Digital safety, Social – 
Robocalls, Social – Open Internet
103-2 The management approach and its componentsEnvironmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Digital safety, Social – 
Robocalls, Social – Open Internet
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachEnvironmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Digital safety, Social – 
Robocalls, Social – Open Internet
413-1Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programsEnvironmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Digital safety, Social – 
Robocalls, Social – Open Internet
GRI 415: Public policy 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Political spending policy 
103-2 The management approach and its components Political spending policy 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Political spending policy 
415-1 Political contributions In 2020, Windstream made $176,750 in pollical contributions through our PAC
GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance – How we govern
103-2 The management approach and its components Governance – How we govern
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance – How we govern
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Windstream has not identified any non-compliance with laws and/or regulations during this reporting period© 2021 Windstream Intellectual Property Services, LLC.  All rights reserved.  Kinetic and Windstream are registered service marks or trademarks of Windstream Intellectual Property Services, LLC.
Copyright ©2020 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved.
This publication contains information developed by Sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). Such information and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided 
for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose. Their 
use is subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.