Environmental, Social 
& Governance Report
Year-End 201922Table of Contents
Priorities  ................................................................ 3
A Message from Tony Thomas  ......................................... 4
Our Mission, Vision & Core Values  .................................. 5
About Windstream  .............................................................. 6
Community  ............................................................ 7
Community Engagement & Philanthropy  ...................... 8
Lifeline Program  ................................................................ 11 
Data Security and Privacy .................................. 12
Customer Privacy  .............................................................. 13
The GDPR & U.S. Law  ...................................................... 14
PCI DSS Compliance  ........................................................ 15
HIPAA & HITECH ................................................................ 16
Environment  ........................................................ 17
Environmental Compliance  ............................................ 18
Environmental Stewardship & Sustainability  ............. 19
Sustainability Efforts – Reduce, Reuse and Recycle  .21
Living & Sharing Our Values and Expectations  ......... 28Commitment to Our Employees ....................... 29
Diversity & Inclusion  ........................................................ 30
Employee Resource Groups  .......................................... 32
Veteran Employees and Vendors  ................................. 35
Occupational Health & Safety  ...................................... 38
Safety Training & Awareness  ......................................... 39
Health & Wellness  ............................................................ 40
Governance .......................................................... 42
Corporate Ethics and Compliance  ............................... 43
Human Rights  .................................................................... 45
Anti-Bribery and Fair Competition  ................................ 46
Political Contributions ..................................................... 47
Supply Chain ........................................................ 48
Supplier Diversity .............................................................. 49
Responsible Minerals Sourcing  ..................................... 50
Supplier Sustainability Efforts  ........................................ 513
QUICK 
NAV
IN THIS SECTION
A Message from Tony Thomas  .................... 4
Our Mission, Vision & Core Values  ............. 5
About Windstream  ......................................... 6Priorities
4
QUICK 
NAVWindstream is committed to making a positive difference in the 
world and especially in the communities that we serve. This 2019 
Environmental, Social & Governance Report highlights some of the 
efforts we are making across a broad range of issues – including 
supporting diversity in the workplace and in our supplier chain, 
protecting the environment, and conducting business with high 
ethical standards.
We fully understand that we succeed when our communities 
are growing and our customers are prospering. As a provider of 
critical communications and technology solutions, we are used to 
addressing today’s challenges while planning for long-term success. 
At the local level, that dual focus leads us to support STEM initiatives 
that prepare the next generation of innovators, food drives that 
fight hunger, and conservation programs that protect wild places 
and creatures.
At the corporate level, we celebrate the authenticity and uniqueness 
of our people and their ideas. We are increasing the number of 
women in customer-facing technician roles and providing them with 
mentors to ensure their success. Our award-winning program to 
attract and support military veterans and their spouses recognizes 
the invaluable skills they bring to our industry. And we are actively 
seeking diverse job candidates, including men and women of color. 
We are equally committed to the inclusion of small, minority, 
veteran and women-owned businesses as part of our supply base. Windstream expects every employee to conduct business in a 
manner that is ethical and promotes the best interests of all of our 
stakeholders, including customers and employees. Annual required 
training reinforces these principles.
Protecting our customers’ privacy is fundamental to our business, 
especially as Americans spend more and more of their lives online. 
As spelled out in our Privacy Statement, we do not sell any 
customer data to third parties.
Windstream works to ensure the long-term health of the 
environment. Our initiatives include promoting energy efficiency, 
minimizing waste through reduction, re-use and recycling, and 
strictly complying with all applicable laws and regulations.
Uniting all of these initiatives is our fundamental drive to be a good 
corporate citizen. It is an important responsibility as well as a rare 
opportunity, and we strive every day to give back in meaningful ways 
to the communities that we are privileged to serve. 
Thank you for your interest in our efforts.
A Message from  
Tony Thomas
5
QUICK 
NAV
Take ownership . Be responsive 
and transparent. Fulfill 
your obligations to your 
customers, team members  
and the company .ACCOUNTABILITY
Be nimble. Seek out 
opportunities to improve. 
Think and act in a way that 
embraces change.
AGILITY
Serve others. Cultivate a 
climate of dignity , trust and 
respect for all. Consider 
others’ opinions equal to  
your own.RESPECT
 COLLABORATION
Come together. Work with 
others to achieve shared 
goals. Foster an environment 
of teamwork.CORE VALUES
OUR MISSION
OUR VISIONConnect people and empower business  
in a world of infinite possibilities.
To provide innovative software and network solutions while 
consistently delivering an amazing customer experience.6
QUICK 
NAV
About Windstream
Windstream provides data networking, core transport, 
security, unified communications and managed services to 
mid-market, enterprise and wholesale customers across 
the U.S. The company also offers broadband, entertainment 
and security services for consumers and small and medium 
sized businesses primarily in rural areas in 18 states. 
Windstream services are delivered over multiple network 
platforms including a nationwide IP network, our proprietary 
cloud core architecture and on a local and long-haul fiber 
network spanning approximately 150,000 miles. 
To accomplish these technological advances, Windstream 
employs over 11,000 exceptional employees located across 
the U.S. and Canada. Windstream supports the work/
life balance of employees by facilitating remote working 
arrangements for more than 30% of its workforce and 
maintains several large work locations in various cities 
including Little Rock, Arkansas, Charlotte, North Carolina, 
Greenville, South Carolina, Rochester, New York, Hiawatha, 
Iowa and Twinsburg, Ohio. 
7
QUICK 
NAV
IN THIS SECTION
Community Engagement & Philanthropy  .....8
Lifeline Program  ............................................... 11Community
8
QUICK 
NAV
At Windstream, we understand the important role 
we play in society as a corporation. We support 
various charities and nonprofit organizations 
throughout our service territory and partner with 
them to enhance lives and build stronger and 
more vibrant communities. We support numerous 
charitable causes, including hunger relief, domestic 
violence awareness, breast cancer research and 
STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts and 
mathematics) initiatives.
Additionally, employees from varying organizations 
across the company volunteer in the company’s 
Culture Crews to lead activities and events that 
demonstrate and celebrate our cultural values. We 
have 19 Culture Crews across the U.S. comprised of 
180 employees that help coordinate events such as 
employee picnics and various fundrasiers across our 
employee base. Employees also coordinate drives for 
school supplies and food for local pantries.Community Engagement 
& Philanthropy9
QUICK 
NAVGirls Learn Tech Skills at Coding Camp  
Presented by Windstream
Sixteen rising eighth- and ninth-grade girls in the University 
of Arkansas at Little Rock’s Girls Coding Camp learned 
skills over the summer that will come in handy for future 
STEM careers. This year’s participants were selected from 
schools statewide based on essay, grades, test scores, and 
recommendations. 
The Girls Coding Camp, made possible with a sponsorship 
from Windstream, is a one-week annual residential camp 
that aims to motivate academically prepared females to 
enter the fields of computer science, information science, 
or web design. The program is free to participants.
The campers took a field trip to Windstream’s campus and 
new Network Lab where they learned how to provision 
a communication system, participated in binary coding 
exercises, and toured the lab.
Sara Lary, manager of the Law Enforcement Support 
Center at Windstream, led the communication provisioning 
exercise for the students. “As a parent of a former 
participant of this camp, I got to witness firsthand how 
my daughter’s experience sparked a level of confidence, 
interest and motivation in her education and career path that she didn’t have previously. Once she was given the 
opportunity to learn cool, relevant things with technology 
in a healthy environment, she became excited about her 
future!” 
 
“We can do this for all young girls,” added Lary. “By fostering 
an interest in STEAM topics at a young age and working on 
the negative connotations and barriers that girls face today; 
educators, parents, and mentors can work together to 
help girls maintain confidence and curiosity in STEAM. We 
need to keep that enthusiasm going for generations and 
continue to work to provide more opportunities for young 
girls to succeed at an early age.”10
QUICK 
NAVWindstream Partners with Pack Shack to Fight Hunger
Windstream, in partnership with our Culture Crews and The Pack Shack, packed 
more than 200,000 meals in 2019 to donate to local hunger-relief organizations.
Since 2015, employees have packed approximately half a million meals through 
“Feed the Funnel” events in partnership with The Pack Shack. 
Not familiar with The Pack Shack? The non-profit organization was established in 
2013 to increase awareness about hunger, provide food, and encourage people 
to get involved with the local nonprofits serving their community. They accomplish 
their mission of addressing food insecurity by setting up super-fun Feed The 
Funnel parties that encourage people to come together to sing, dance, and 
laugh…but more importantly, pack meals. 
Windstream hosted nine Feed the Funnel parties in 2019 in our largest  
employee locations.
Supporting Our Veterans
Our Veteran Employee Resource Group participates in Toys for Tots, 
prepares care packages for our deployed Guard and Reserve service 
members and places flags and wreaths at our military cemeteries. 
Windstream recognizes Memorial and Veterans Day by hosting special 
events throughout our footprint.
11
QUICK 
NAV
Lifeline Program
We believe it is important for everyone to 
stay connected. Lifeline is a program of 
the Federal Communications Commission 
that helps qualified individuals lower their 
monthly cost of telecommunications 
services. Windstream is a participant in this 
program, and eligible customers can apply 
their monthly Lifeline discount to either 
their phone or Internet service. Residents 
of federally recognized tribal lands may 
receive an additional reduction. Additional 
state support may be available, depending 
on a customer’s location.
All information about the Lifeline  
discount program can be found at  
www.lifelinesupport.org .
12
QUICK 
NAV
IN THIS SECTION
Customer Privacy  ........................................ 13
The GDPR & U.S. Law  ................................ 14
PCI DSS Compliance  .................................. 15
HIPAA & HITECH .......................................... 16Data Security 
and Privacy
13
QUICK 
NAV
Customer Privacy
Protecting the privacy of our customers is fundamental 
to Windstream’s business. In the course of ordering 
services from us, sending us an e-mail, or responding to 
a Windstream survey, among other ways, customers may 
provide personally identifiable information (PII) to us. We 
want our customers to use our services with confidence, 
and therefore we employ a number of security 
techniques designed to protect customer information 
from unauthorized access. Windstream employees with 
access to customer information are required to comply 
with all applicable laws regulating disclosure of such 
information.
Windstream’s Privacy Statement describes how we 
collect information from or about our customers, how 
we use the information collected, and the choices 
customers have concerning the collection and use of 
such information.
14
QUICK 
NAV
The GDPR & U.S. Law
The General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR) regulates data 
protection and privacy for all individual citizens of the European Union and the 
European Economic Area (EU), as well as the transfer of personal data outside the 
EU. While there is currently no comprehensive federal law in the U.S. that governs 
the collection and use of personal data, several states have recently enacted 
privacy legislation that, in many cases, may resemble the provisions of the GDPR. 
These state laws provide individuals broad rights with regard to access and control 
of their personal data and impose new technical and notice obligations on affected 
businesses that use, process or store such personal data. 
Windstream is continually investing in our security infrastructure and our 
Information Security Organization, together with the Legal Department, performs 
risk assessments for compliance with all applicable privacy laws, identifies 
compliance gaps to be remediated, and executes on comprehensive remediation 
plans to ensure compliance within an evolving regulatory landscape. We continue 
to work diligently toward gaining and maintaining compliance with all applicable 
privacy laws, as well as enhancing our policies, procedures and training programs 
to ensure that all Windstream employees understand and adhere to these laws. 15
QUICK 
NAV
PCI DSS Compliance
Protecting customer credit card data is important to 
Windstream, as security threats are becoming increasingly 
sophisticated and severe. Launched in 2006, the Payment 
Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a set of 
security standards designed to ensure that all companies 
that accept credit cards from one of the 5 members of 
the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council 
(American Express, Discover, JCB, MasterCard and Visa) 
as payment for goods and/or services maintain a secure 
environment. Any company that processes, stores or 
transmits cardholder data is referred to as a “merchant” 
and must be PCI DSS compliant.
As a merchant, Windstream maintains PCI DSS compliance 
when handling our customers’ credit card information should they choose to pay for services with a credit 
card, and we require PCI DSS compliance of any vendor 
processing, storing or transmitting or impacting the 
security of the cardholder data environment of our 
customers as part of the services they provide to us. 
Additionally, Windstream offers services to assist our 
business customers in achieving and maintaining their 
own PCI DSS compliance by helping identify gaps for 
remediation, and providing added network security and 
ongoing business support. We are also able to provide 
Attestation of Compliance (AOC) reports covering certain 
Windstream services to business customers that are using 
one of those services and are required to demonstrate 
their own PCI DSS compliance as a merchant.16
QUICK 
NAVFor our healthcare customers, we know protecting 
sensitive patient data is vital. With the Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) Final 
Omnibus Rule, the U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services set the standard for protecting sensitive patient 
data, referred to as “protected health information” (PHI). 
Additionally, the Health Information Technology for 
Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) addresses 
privacy and security concerns associated with the 
electronic transmission of health information. Service 
providers that provide transmission services to healthcare 
entities subject to HIPAA, including temporary storage 
of PHI incidental to the transmission services, are not 
required to comply with HIPAA’s requirements. However, 
this doesn’t mean that Windstream doesn’t take steps to 
ensure such information is protected. Should customers provide PHI to Windstream, or we 
otherwise obtain access to such information in the course 
of providing services to our customers, we commit to 
not using, disclosing, selling or renting PHI to any third 
party without our customers’ consent, except to the 
extent we are required by law to disclose it. Additionally, 
Windstream’s OfficeSuite UC® product has achieved 
HIPAA and HITECH compliance, and healthcare customers 
using OfficeSuite UC can leverage our compliance report, 
“Opinion on the Design & Operating Effectiveness of 
HIPAA and HITECH Controls over OfficeSuite Services”, as 
part of their overall compliance strategy. We also work 
closely with customers who request a Business Associate 
Agreement (BAA) to confirm compliance with the HIPAA 
requirements, and will agree to execute a BAA when 
appropriate.
HIPAA & HITECH17
QUICK 
NAV
IN THIS SECTION
Environmental Compliance  .............................................. 18
Environmental Stewardship & Sustainability  ............... 19
Sustainability Efforts – Reduce, Reuse and Recycle  ...21
Living & Sharing Our Values and Expectations  ........... 28Environment
18
QUICK 
NAV Windstream is dedicated, and has strong desire, to be above the curve when it comes to environmental 
performance, not just minimally compliant.
 Windstream maintains an inventory database of all assets (such as generators, fuel tanks, boilers, and batteries 
located at Windstream facilities) potentially subject to EPA regulation. This database also includes permits, 
inspections, and other pertinent environmental information for tracking and monitoring to ensure compliance. 
In addition, Windstream completes approximately 800 Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act 
(EPCRA) filings annually to ensure compliance of all reportable Windstream facilities with federal, state, and local 
regulations.
 
With respect to final storage tank compliance, Windstream maintains a robust inspection program for leak 
detection and walk-through inspections in compliance with federal guidelines. The leak detection procedures 
were implemented well in advance of the federal deadline. To provide enhanced protection, we are in the process 
of implementing a centralized monitoring system for all tanks and replacing aging underground storage tanks 
(UST) with more environmentally conscience solutions. Windstream maintains Spill Prevention, Control, and 
Countermeasure (SPCC) plans for all applicable sites that are renewed every 5-years.
 As a result of Windstream’s preventive stance toward compliance, Windstream has not had any significant chemical 
spills and only minor environmental violations. As reflected by our actions and results, Windstream is dedicated 
and has a strong desire to be above the curve, not just minimally compliant for environmental related issues. 
Environmental Compliance19
QUICK 
NAV
Windstream is committed to environmental stewardship. We believe that corporations have a significant role to play 
when it comes to reducing our society’s environmental impact to our planet. At Windstream, sustainability efforts are an 
obligation, not a choice. Our corporate sustainability program combines common sense strategies with more ambitious 
long-term initiatives to continuously become more resource-efficient. This approach allows us to make improvements 
while balancing the needs of our customers, employees and shareholders.
To hold ourselves accountable, set goals and measure our performance, we began voluntarily participating in CDP’s 
global environmental disclosure system in 2008. CDP, formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project, is a not-profit 
organization that operates a disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states and regions to manage their 
risks and opportunities on climate change, water security and deforestation. CDP’s aim - and Windstream’s - is to make 
environmental reporting and risk management a business norm, and drive disclosure, insight and action towards a 
sustainable economy.
Environmental Stewardship  
& Sustainability20
QUICK 
NAVBuilding & Other  
10,794 | 3%
Vehicle Fuels  
49,824 | 13%
Electricity  
325,553 | 84%
Windstream is currently reviewing opportunities for independent external assurance of greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emmissions and carbon intensity. Our 2019 restults will be shared later in 2020.All direct sources of emissions owned or controlled 
by Windstream, with the main categories being fuel 
to power our fleet, heat our buildings and power 
back-up generators.
Indirect emissions sources generated offsite, but 
purchased by Windstream. The main category is 
electricity to power our networks and data centers, 
plus a small amount of steam and heat purchased to 
heat our buildings.
Emissions from corporate business travel (air and 
rail) based on travel reservations.21
3SCOPE OVERVIEWCO2e Metric Tons (MT)
Emmissions 2017 2018 2019% Change 
2018-2019
Scope 1 62,810 64,239 60,618 -5.9%
Scope 2 331,537 334,776 325,554 -2.7%
Total 1 & 2 394,347 399,015 386,171 -3.2%
Scope 3*— — — —
Emissions: Breakdown by Scope 
Emissions Profile 2019  
(CO2e metric tons)
*2019 GHG emissions and carbon intensity totals subject to adjustment through additional review and    
  external assurances.  21
QUICK 
NAV Business Travel
 Windstream was an early provider and adopter of Unified 
Communications as a Service (UCaaS) solutions, which supports 
a geographically dispersed workforce with video and voice 
conferencing and chat functions. Leveraging our own OfficeSuite® 
UCaaS solution, we’ve reduced corporate business travel by 44% 
through 2019 . We continue to quantify the effect of UCaaS on our 
environmental impact and are excited to share those results in 
future disclosures.
Sustainability Efforts –  
Reduce, Reuse and Recycle22
QUICK 
NAV Real Estate
  Increased adoption and use of UCaaS solutions internally has also allowed us to reduce our real estate footprint by 
increasing the number of our associates working remotely from home. This, coupled with a strategic rationalization 
initiative led by our Corporate Real Estate team, has allowed us to consolidate and reduce the number of 
facilities we lease and own by 32% since 2017, equal to a 36% reduction in rentable square feet (RSF) by 
the end of 2019.
 
 Windstream IT and Network Real Estate continues to leverage new technologies with improved energy efficiencies 
and optimization to improve operations and footprint. Since 2018, we’ve consolidated network operations & Data 
Center locations by 59 facilities. The combined improvements equate to a target  reduction of 17,610 Mwh of 
electricity, or 2.3% carbon emission reduction of our total Scope 2 into 2020.
 The benefits of a smaller footprint include reductions in the miles driven, and gallons of fuel consumed by our 
employees who no longer commute to an office, elimination of the electricity needed to power and heat those 
buildings, and the water and chemicals consumed to clean and maintain the facilities and landscaping.
 The combined efforts in Real Estate and Network is expected to reduce Scope 2 emissions by 3.5%, or 26,847 Mwh 
of electricity.
Real Estate  
Facility ReductionsNetwork  & DCs  
Facilities ReductionsEstimated Electrical 
Reduction (Mwh)Estimated Carbon 
Reduction (MT CO2)
2018 35 25 7,063 3,656
2019 62 34 19,784 10,243
26,847 13,89923
QUICK 
NAV Fleet
 Windstream has reduced the size of its fleet by 13% and replaced 
54% of our vehicles since 2014  that are, on average, 10-15% more fuel 
efficient. We have also established a 2025 goal to improve fuel efficiency 
by 20%, to be accomplished by optimizing our assets for the roles they 
perform, including a continued shift from V8 to V6 engines for a portion 
of our fleet. As we replace aerial lifts, we are including systems that 
run solely on electric power or allow alternative powering sources so 
technicians can operate the vehicle without running the main engine, 
reducing idling. 
 Additionally, our Field Operations teams have invested in new smartphone application technologies that allow 
technicians to communicate directly with customers, improving installation windows and shortening routes with 
improved turn-by-turn directions. Windstream is also hyper-focused on reducing truck rolls by investing in new 
solutions that allow for better remote diagnostics and repairs, and on solutions that allow our customers to self-
install next generation modems. 
Goal Improve fuel efficiency by 
20% 
by 202524
QUICK 
NAVBusiness Travel
44% ReductionReal Estate 
36% Reduction in 
Rentable RSFFleet 
13% Reduction Paper
59% Reduction Reduce Paper & Printers
 Across all of Windstream, we have reduced printed materials by more 
than 59% since 2016 , and our goal is to achieve a 75% reduction by 2025. 
As we reduced and refreshed our printer counts, we did so with more 
energy efficient multi-function machines, and reset the printer defaults to 
double-sided and black-and-white print.
 Next Generation Equipment & Solutions
 Windstream has, and will continue to, explore and test new technologies that both improve our network performance 
and customer experience, AND reduce our environmental impact. Examples of our past and on ongoing efforts 
include:
• A 40% reduction in energy consumption for our next generation core router solution
•  Installation and testing of new products for HVAC systems to boost efficiency and reduce overall electricity 
consumption 
•  Conducting solar trials in Texas to power certain gear and elements of our network
•  Examining the benefits of a shift to natural gas and propane fired generators versus diesel to reduce the stationary 
combustion component of our CDP disclosure
•  Running low voltage for remote switch in lieu of having a powered meter at a central office/hut on the side of the 
road
•  Creating business cases for the increased use of LED lighting in our warehouses and facilitiesPaper Reduction Goal 
75% 
by 202525
QUICK 
NAV
Refurbishing , Redeploying & Reusing Equipment & Materials to 
Avoid Waste
At Windstream, we believe that we have an obligation to avoid waste.  
Not only is this a good business practice that directly benefits our 
customers and stakeholders, but it also decreases our environmental 
impact by reducing landfill and carbon emissions.  Here are some 
highlights from our recent efforts:
 Modems 
 New supply chain software and processes have allowed Windstream 
to not only reduce overall modem shipments by 11% through 
tighter inventory management, but to repair and refurbish returned 
modems and redeploy them. This, coincidentally, has resulted in 11% 
of our 2019 modem deployments being “redeployments” using 
this refurbished equipment
26
QUICK 
NAV Network Equipment & Sparing Hardware
 As Windstream continues to invest in network improvements, we are upgrading and/or decommissioning some 
of our locations.  Project Harvest was launched to ensure we refurbished and redeployed equipment from these 
locations.  Through 2019, we have successfully recovered over 45k units and redeployed or repurposed over 
9,800  pieces of network equipment
 Pallets & Packing Materials
 Despite a 20% rise in shipments in 2019 tied to increased investments in our Kinetic business unit around 
broadband, fixed-wireless, and fiber-to-the-premise solutions, our Warehouse teams have reduced our 
consumption of new materials by reusing those coming inbound to properly pack and ship outbound freight. 
Through 2019, new pallets are down 3%, product packaging is down 45% and shipping supplies are down 17% 
from the previous year.
27
QUICK 
NAVRecycling  What We Cannot Reuse Ourselves
When we cannot reuse, we recycle.  Our objective is to divert customer 
modems, set-top boxes and other electronic devices from landfills, 
either to be used by someone else or recycled.  We also seek to 
properly dispose of and recycle network equipment, batteries, poles, 
scrap metal and other internal supplies.
Windstream launched a Consolidated Waste Program with a third-
party solutions provider in 2018 designed to help us improve our 
sustainability reporting in this area, improve our practices, take 
advantage of more recycling opportunities, and ensure we continue to 
meet or exceed regulatory mandates and requirements.  
 Over the past three years, Windstream has avoided sending 39,000 
e-waste assets to the landfill, equivalent to 276,000 pounds of 
equipment, 43% of which was reused and 56% recycled, avoiding 
70,000 pounds of hazardous waste being send to landfills.
 We have been able to recycle more than 6,000 pieces of network 
gear and electronics through enhanced supply chain visibility and 
Project Harvest by selling this unneeded gear to other companies in 
the gray market.  
28
QUICK 
NAVIn 2015, Windstream launched a dedicated program to help 
employees expand their understanding of sustainability and their 
responsibilities, and contribute and participate in our journey.  The 
BGreen program includes an online social area where employees 
can share suggestions, success stories, information on local 
sustainability events, generate and facilitate greater program 
awareness and interest, and volunteer to help.
Living & Sharing Our Values 
and Expectations 29
QUICK 
NAV
IN THIS SECTION
Diversity & Inclusion  .................................... 30
Employee Resource Groups  ...................... 32
Veteran Employees and Vendors  ............. 35
Occupational Health & Safety .................... 38
Safety Training & Awareness  ..................... 39
Health & Wellness  ........................................ 40Commitment  
to Our  
Employees
30
QUICK 
NAVAt Windstream, we are embracing the challenge to 
advance our diversity and inclusion. Windstream’s leaders 
are tasked with managing a diverse, mobile and multi-
generational workforce. To recruit top talent, we embrace 
and promote a culture of inclusion and civility. This means 
taking affirmative steps to create a workplace free of 
discrimination, harassment and retaliation. 
In March, Windstream proudly accepted the inaugural 
Olivia Farrell Gender Equity Leadership Award for our 
efforts to foster equality in the workplace. The award was 
presented to Windstream at the 31st annual Arkansas 
Business of the Year awards dinner.Windstream has a Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Council 
led by CEO Tony Thomas and our Senior Leadership 
Team. The goal of the Strategic Council is to prioritize the 
company’s diversity and inclusion efforts, raise awareness 
throughout the organization and educate leaders and 
employees on its importance.
Windstream’s Diversity & Inclusion Operational Committee 
fulfills the goals and practices set forth by the Strategic 
Council. The Committee consists of a diverse group of 
25 employees who possess a wide range of industry and 
leadership experience. Of the 25 Operational Committee 
members, 19 are female and nine are ethnically diverse. Windstream’s Statement on Diversity & Inclusion (D&I): 
Connecting people in a world of infinite possibilities. At Windstream, we celebrate the authenticity and 
uniqueness of our people and ideas. The diverse voices of our employees fuel our innovation and the 
inclusive culture we are building empowers each one of us to create amazing customer experiences. 
Diversity & Inclusion 31
QUICK 
NAVThe Operational Committee diligently works to reach the 
goals set forth by the Strategic Council. The Committee’s 
priorities for 2019 have included the reinvention of 
Windstream’s D&I Statement, a focused effort on 
increasing women in technician positions, the expansion 
of the Women of Windstream (WOW) program, targeted 
talent acquisition plans and training and awareness 
on unconscious biases. These activities are reported 
quarterly to the Governance Committee of the Board of 
Directors. Current activities include: 
 Providing managers with a D&I Toolkit to help them 
speak to the company’s initiatives and actively support 
them;
 Increasing the number of women in customer service 
technician roles and providing them with mentorship 
to ensure success; Providing networking and leadership training 
opportunities for women across the company; 
 Advertising Windstream careers in minority-focused 
print publications; and
 Ensuring that Windstream careers are posted on 
websites that target a diverse audience
We expect our efforts to grow the current 17% diverse 
employee base by attracting a more diverse applicant 
pool and improving our female representation beyond 
the current 31%. In fact, in the second quarter of this 
year, hiring outpaced the employee base in both diversity 
(28%) and female hires (39%). We strive to continue 
this positive trajectory and are working hard to assure 
everyone feels included, valued, and respected at 
Windstream.
32
QUICK 
NAV
Employee Resource Groups
Employee Resource Groups Support Inclusion in the Workplace 
Windstream currently has three internal Employee Resource Groups (ERGs).  Our Veteran Employee Resource 
Group (VERG) assists veterans and veteran spouses, our Women of Windstream (WOW) group supports women 
in the workplace, and our WINPride group supports LGBTQ+ employees within Windstream.
WINDSTREAM
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
VERGVERG
VETERAN EMPLOYEE □
RESROUCE GROUPPRIDEPRIDE
WINDSTREAM LGBTQ+ EMPLOYEE □
RESOURCE GROUP
WINDSTREAM BLACK □
PROFESSIONALS NETWORKWBPNWBPN
WOMEN OF WINDSTREAM
WOWWOWWINDSTREAM
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
VERGVERG
VETERAN EMPLOYEE □
RESROUCE GROUPPRIDEPRIDE
WINDSTREAM LGBTQ+ EMPLOYEE □
RESOURCE GROUP
WINDSTREAM BLACK □
PROFESSIONALS NETWORKWBPNWBPN
WOMEN OF WINDSTREAM
WOWWOWWINDSTREAM
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
VERGVERG
VETERAN EMPLOYEE □
RESROUCE GROUPPRIDEPRIDE
WINDSTREAM LGBTQ+ EMPLOYEE □
RESOURCE GROUP
WINDSTREAM BLACK □
PROFESSIONALS NETWORKWBPNWBPN
WOMEN OF WINDSTREAM
WOWWOW33
QUICK 
NAV
Women of Windstream (WOW)  
Mission: To connect and empower women by creating an inclusive environment 
for forming supportive relationships and realizing career enhancing experiences. 
Windstream’s Women of Windstream (WOW) program is designed to recruit, retain, 
promote, develop and to support Windstream’s women both professionally and personally.
WOW provides quarterly opportunities for networking, mentorship, professional and 
personal growth for women across the company. WOW also sponsors attendance to an 
Arkansas women’s leadership conference, which gives female employees the ability to 
further develop leadership skills. We host virtual and live events featuring female leaders within the company, including 
members of Windstream’s Board of Directors, that provide insights into work/life balance and career advice, among 
other topics. Our goal is to create a community where women can connect and learn from the experience of others.WINDSTREAM
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
VERGVERG
VETERAN EMPLOYEE □
RESROUCE GROUPPRIDEPRIDE
WINDSTREAM LGBTQ+ EMPLOYEE □
RESOURCE GROUP
WINDSTREAM BLACK □
PROFESSIONALS NETWORKWBPNWBPN
WOMEN OF WINDSTREAM
WOWWOW34
QUICK 
NAVWIN Pride                                             
Mission: The Windstream Pride employee resource group seeks to increase 
LGBTQ+ cultural awareness to foster an environment of inclusion for all 
Windstream Employees. The ERG provides a venue for networking, socialization, 
professional development, and discussion of LGBTQ+ issues and concerns. WIN 
Pride encourages and assists Windstream in its efforts to achieve greater market 
share among the LGBTQ+ community.
Veteran Employee Resource Group (VERG)                          
Mission: Windstream’s Veteran Employee Resource Group (VERG) program is 
designed to support Windstream’s initiative regarding outreach, recruitment, and 
retention efforts in the military and veteran communities. Our mission is to be 
the pillar for our veterans, military spouses and active Guard & Reserve members; 
by providing networking opportunities, empowering information, and career 
development that equips each individual to excel in their new career paths.
A detailed onboarding program outlines what occurs within the first 30, 60, 90 days of 
employment so employees know what to expect as a Windstream new hire. The VERG 
provides a road map to success agreed to by both the recently hired veteran employee and their first line supervisor, 
with touch points in place to monitor the progress of the new hire, and a mentor is assigned to help guide them 
through the integration process. The VERG also hosts orientation for all newly hired veterans and veteran spouses. 
The VERG works to ensure that every new veteran and veteran spouse feels welcomed and set up for success at 
Windstream. WINDSTREAM
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
VERGVERG
VETERAN EMPLOYEE □
RESROUCE GROUPPRIDEPRIDE
WINDSTREAM LGBTQ+ EMPLOYEE □
RESOURCE GROUP
WINDSTREAM BLACK □
PROFESSIONALS NETWORKWBPNWBPN
WOMEN OF WINDSTREAM
WOWWOW
WINDSTREAM
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
VERGVERG
VETERAN EMPLOYEE □
RESROUCE GROUPPRIDEPRIDE
WINDSTREAM LGBTQ+ EMPLOYEE □
RESOURCE GROUP
WINDSTREAM BLACK □
PROFESSIONALS NETWORKWBPNWBPN
WOMEN OF WINDSTREAM
WOWWOW35
QUICK 
NAVAt Windstream, we walk the talk when it comes to hiring veterans, veteran spouses and veteran-
owned businesses, and Windstream has been consistently recognized for our veteran friendly 
approach.  Here are some of our recent accolades:
2020 Military Friendly Employer Gold Certification – Windstream was recognized as #6 in 
the top 10 employers for our commitment to veterans and members of the armed forces through 
recruitment and support programs. In 2019 we received Gold level recognition as #8 in the top 10 
employers. In 2018 we received Gold level recognition as #2 in the top 10 employers.
2020 Military Friendly Spouse Employer – Windstream was ranked #3 as a Military Friendly 
Spouse Employer for our commitment to military spouses and promoting workforce development 
policies that acknowledge the unique challenges of military life and skills learned through those 
challenges.
2019 Best for Vets, US Veterans Magazine – Windstream was named one of the Top Veteran-
Friendly Companies by U.S. Veteran’s Magazine for the third straight year for our efforts in hiring and 
retaining veterans.
U.S. Veterans Magazine polled hundreds of Fortune 1000 companies for this year’s Best of the Best 
evaluations. The annual review is an evaluation of the nation’s employers, initiatives, government 
agencies and educational institutions. These non-biased studies are valuable resources for 
jobseekers, business owners, students, consumers, senior management, business associations, 
employment agencies and consumer groups.
Veteran Employees  
and Vendors36
QUICK 
NAV2019 DOL Hire Vets Medallion Platinum Award  – Windstream won the Platinum award 
in 2019 and Gold for 2018. In 2019, Windstream ranks among the 239 award recipients 
ranging from small businesses and community-based non-profits to leading Fortune 500 
companies from 42 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Recipients demonstrated 
a commitment to veteran hiring and retention, and provided veteran-specific resources, 
leadership programming, dedicated human resources, and compensation and tuition 
assistance programs, according to the Department of Labor. The HIRE Vets Medallion Program 
is the only federal-level award that recognizes job creators who successfully recruit, hire, and 
retain America’s veterans.
2019 Military Times Best for Vets  – Windstream was recognized among the Best for Vets 
Employers, #15, based on recruiting strategies and hiring of military personnel, veterans, and 
their families, as well as company culture and policies supporting valued veterans. In 2018 
Windstream was #12 and in 2017 Windstream was #14.
2020 Military Friendly® Supplier Diversity Award  – Windstream was among 91 companies 
identified that demonstrate their commitment to the veteran community by the extent to which 
they include veteran owned businesses in their supplier diversity programs. These corporations 
are eager to do business with entrepreneurs because it is good for their own bottom line.
 
The Military Friendly Supplier Diversity Program list is created each year based on extensive 
research using public data sources for more than 8,800 employers nationwide, and responses 
to the proprietary, data-driven Military Friendly® Companies survey from participating 
companies.
37
QUICK 
NAVThe survey questions, methodology, criteria, and weighting were developed with the assistance of 
an independent research firm. Ernst & Young, a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction, and 
advisory services, independently evaluated the scoring methodology used for the Military Friendly 
Supplier Diversity Program list using the criteria set forth by VIQTORY. The services performed by 
Ernst & Young are limited to advisory procedures and do not provide assurance over the scoring 
methodology.
2020 Military Friendly® Company – Windstream was selected for the first time as a 2020 
Military Friendly® Company List by VIQTORY. Companies on the list are considered by VIQTORY to 
provide the best opportunities for veterans and military spouses. The Military Friendly Company 
list is based on extensive research using public data sources and responses to the proprietary, 
data-driven Military Friendly Employers, Spouse, Supplier Diversity and Brands survey from all 
participating companies.
This year, Windstream was included in three of the four Military Friendly lists: Military Friendly 
Employer (#6), Military Friendly Spouse Employer (#3), and Military Friendly Supplier Diversity 
Program. As a result, Windstream qualified for the 2020 Military Friendly Company list.
38
QUICK 
NAV
Occupational Health & Safety
Occupational Health and Safety 
Windstream provides a safe, healthy, and alcohol- and 
drug-free work place for its employees and for visitors to 
Windstream’s facilities. We are committed to complying 
with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. 
Employees are trained to identify and immediately report 
unsafe or hazardous conditions or suspected violations 
of the law, and are expected to follow all applicable safety, 
health, and environmental laws, as well as any related 
Windstream policies.
Environmental, Health & Safety (EH&S) Committees in 
our local offices play an important role in keeping our 
workplace safe. These Committees provide opportunities 
for employees and management to provide feedback on 
local safety related problems and weigh in on resolution of those problems. Each Committee selects a Safety 
Representative who meets on a monthly basis with the 
Corporate EH&S team to provide updates on items 
such as accidents and injuries in the local office, safety 
awareness, training initiatives, and equipment issues.
Additionally, each facility participates in the development 
and implementation of their own sites’ specific emergency 
procedures based on guidelines from the corporate 
Emergency Action Plan (EAP). Facility managers and 
employees adopt steps to ensure safe evacuation of 
employees and visitors in the event of actual emergencies. 
Responsible parties are identified, based on facility 
needs and periodic evacuation drills are held to ensure 
understanding of individual roles and compliance with 
conforming standards.39
QUICK 
NAV
Safety Training
and Awareness
 Windstream’s EH&S and Risk Management teams continually 
provide guidance on safety policies and procedures. Our overall 
plan of action is to continuously improve and implement change 
that will result in an enhanced safety environment and reduce 
incidents. The goal is to provide effective safety training courses 
to ensure employees are protected from injuries and prevent 
incidents. To achieve this goal, Windstream employees receive over 
45,000 hours of safety and environmental related training annually. 
Windstream is committed to the safety of our employees and we 
expect our employees to share in this commitment.
“In 2018-2019, we implemented a program to identify and 
reduce ladder weight. The EH&S team worked diligently to 
identify industry ladders that would perform the desired 
function at reduced weight. By providing lower weighted 
ladders to our employees, we expect to improve their day-
to-day work environment and reduce the frequency and 
severity of ladder related injuries.”40
QUICK 
NAV
Health & Wellness
In addition to providing a comprehensive benefits package to employees that includes medical, dental, vision, 
Health Savings and Flexible Spending accounts, life insurance, disability benefits, maternity and paternity 
leave benefits, and a 401(k) retirement plan with company matching contributions, Windstream supports the 
overall health and well-being of our employees with a full menu of activities and resources to assist them with 
maintaining and improving their overall health. 41
QUICK 
NAVEmployees can take advantage of the following ongoing wellness programs:
Tobacco Cessation  The Magellan Clickotine program offers app and coaching based tobacco cessation support. 
Tobacco cessation supplements are also included in the medical plan. Visit MagellanAscend.com for more information 
and to register.
Windstream’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Windstream offers an Employee Assistance Program through 
Magellan. From online information to confidential consultations with licensed behavioral health professionals, employees 
and their families have access to a wealth of practical, solution-focused resources to help them reduce stress, strengthen 
relationships, increase productivity and improve quality of life.
Progyny Progyny specializes in offering families a variety of options for infertility treatment – with proven success. With 
over 450 clinics, Progyny offers a wide network of specialists.
Weight Watchers Windstream partners with Weight Watchers® to change employees’ relationship with food, for good. 
Try their proven weight-loss approach and powerful group support at a 50% discount. Windstream will pay half the 
membership cost of online access or online plus in-person meetings (meetings available to those living in non-franchise 
locations). Weight Watchers is a validated program and approach that supports millions of people in their weight 
management goals. 
Livongo Livongo offers assistance for members seeking support for diabetes, hypertension and weight management. 
These programs are available at no cost to medically enrolled employees and spouses who meet clinical requirements.  
Participants receive the Latest Technology to Simplify Living with Diabetes including the Livongo connected glucometer 
blood pressure cuff, and scale which automatically upload readings, making log books and sync cables a thing of the 
past.  Livongo enrollees also receive real-time support from coaches that includes personalized support provided from 
the Livongo mobile app, secure website, and certified diabetes educators.  Participants also benefit from unlimited test 
strips at no cost that are shipped directly to the employee’s home with the click of a button.42
QUICK 
NAV
IN THIS SECTION
Corporate Ethics and Compliance  ........... 43
Human Rights  ................................................ 45
Anti-Bribery and Fair Competition  ............ 46
Political Contributions ................................. 47Governance
43
QUICK 
NAVIntegrity is one of our most valuable assets. Windstream is committed to 
conducting business in a manner that is ethical and promotes the best interests 
of its stakeholders, employees, and customers and complying with all applicable 
laws and regulations. Windstream expects every employee and member of the 
Board of Directors to be ethical and honest, comply with the law, and avoid any 
appearance of impropriety or conflict of interest. Understanding, embracing 
and performing our individual jobs in compliance with laws, regulations and 
our policies is not only the right thing to do, but it also has a real impact on our 
financial performance and the character of our organization. 
Our Working with Integrity  Guidelines (the “Guidelines”) are the foundation 
of our Ethics and Compliance Program, and provide a basic road map to assist 
employees and board members in identifying activities and behaviors that 
are appropriate in important areas of business conduct. Windstream expects 
employees, and employees have an obligation, to uphold and carry out our 
commitment to lawful and ethical business conduct at all times. The Guidelines 
build on our cultural beliefs by outlining expected ethical behaviors for our 
employees, board members, and other company representatives. Annual 
Working with Integrity  training required of all employees reinforces the principals 
outlined in these Guidelines.
Corporate Ethics
and Compliance44
QUICK 
NAVOther policies supplement the Guidelines. Every 
Windstream employee (as well as third-party consultants, 
agents, independent contractors, subcontractors, and 
partners) who serve government clients are responsible 
for understanding the legal requirements and restrictions 
that apply to their work, and must strictly adhere to 
the principles contained within our Code of Business 
Ethics and Conduct in Governmental Contracting . 
Additionally, Windstream’s Supplier Code of Ethics 
provides basic guidelines to assist suppliers in meeting our 
expectations that suppliers be ethical and honest, comply 
with all laws and regulations, and avoid the appearance of 
impropriety and conflicts of interest. 
Windstream’s Chief Compliance Officer leads our Ethics 
and Compliance function and reports directly to the Audit 
Committee of the Board of Directors, with administrative 
reporting to the company’s Chief Financial Officer. The Audit 
Committee has risk oversight responsibility for ethics and 
compliance for the company. 
One of the most important responsibilities Windstream 
employees have is the obligation to report possible 
workplace violations of law or the guidelines. Windstream 
encourages employees to fulfill this responsibility and to 
seek advice when in doubt about the best course of action 
in a particular situation. We offer several alternatives for obtaining compliance advice and reporting possible 
violations of applicable law or these guidelines, including 
the Working with Integrity  helpline and website, which are 
staffed by an independent third party twenty-four hours per 
day, seven days a week. Employees may report violations 
anonymously and Windstream prohibits any employee from 
taking retaliatory action against anyone for making a good 
faith report or assisting in an investigation of a possible 
violation. 
Information reported is promptly transmitted to 
Windstream and investigated. Windstream maintains a 
case management system, and when a matter is reported 
to the helpline or website, it is assigned a unique tracking 
number that enables the individual to receive updates on 
the complaint or provide additional information. 
All ethics investigations are managed by the Ethics and 
Compliance function and examination results are reported 
on a quarterly basis to the Audit Committee, as well as the 
company’s Compliance Committee, which is comprised 
of the Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Financial Officer, 
General Counsel and Chief Human Resources Officer. 
Windstream’s Working with Integrity  Helpline  
1-888-898-3990. Windstream’s Working with Integrity  
Website www.tnwgrc.com/webreport .45
QUICK 
NAV
Human Rights
A commitment to human rights can be found throughout the Guidelines, as well as the Supplier Code of Ethics. The 
Guidelines address topics such as customer and employee privacy, diversity and inclusion, health and safety and 
harassment in the workplace. Further, we expect our suppliers to treat their employees with respect and dignity and 
not to use corporal punishment, threats of violence, physical abuse or other forms of physical coercion, harassment 
or intimidation. Suppliers’ employment, wage and benefits practices should not be based upon grounds of sex, race, 
age, color, religion, national origin, marital status, veteran status or disability, in accordance with state and federal 
law. Windstream also expects suppliers to respect the legal rights of their employees to join or not to join worker 
organizations, including trade unions or similar external representative organizations. Suppliers must implement hiring 
practices to accurately verify the age of all workers and workers’ legal right to work prior to employment.
46
QUICK 
NAV
Windstream prohibits any offer, payment, 
promise, or gift that is intended or appears 
to influence any person or entity to award 
business opportunities to Windstream or to 
make a business decision in Windstream’s 
favor. In accordance with the Guidelines 
and Supplier Code of Ethics, employees and 
suppliers are required to comply with all 
applicable anti-bribery ad anticorruption laws 
of the United States, including the Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act, and countries in which 
operations are being conducted. Additionally, as 
a government contractor, it is important that we 
conduct business with government entities in 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations; 
accordingly, Windstream prohibits employees 
from giving anything of value to government 
employees and officials for any reason.
Anti-Bribery and
Fair Competition47
QUICK 
NAVWindstream encourages employees to participate in the 
political process by voting or otherwise being involved 
in political activity. Windstream maintains a political 
action committee, known as WINPAC, for the purpose of 
supporting political candidates and issues that support 
and advance Windstream’s business interests, and eligible 
employees have the opportunity to make voluntary 
contributions to WINPAC. 
Windstream is committed to transparency in its political 
activity. Our Political Spending Policy is available on the 
Investor Relations page of our corporate website, along 
with an accounting of Windstream’s efforts, and is updated 
annually. Additionally, we comply with federal and state 
regulatory reporting requirements, including required 
filings made with the Federal Election Commission and 
analogous state entities. This information is supplemented 
by disclosures on the Investor Relations page, offering 
stakeholders and the public a comprehensive view of 
Windstream’s political activity.
Political Contributions48
QUICK 
NAV
IN THIS SECTION
Supplier Diversity .......................................... 49
Responsible Minerals Sourcing  ................. 50
Supplier Sustainability Efforts  .................... 51
 Supply Chain
49
QUICK 
NAVAt Windstream, we value the diversity of our customers, 
employees and suppliers who are key partners
in our success. Windstream is committed to the inclusion 
of small, minority, veteran, women and LGBTQ-owned 
businesses in our supply base. We believe that diverse and 
small businesses contribute capabilities to Windstream 
that make us a leader in the telecommunications industry, 
and we believe our supply base should reflect the 
communities and customers we serve.
Our Supplier Diversity Program promotes the 
development of small, minority, veteran, service 
disabled veteran, HUBZone, 8(a), LGBTQ and women-
owned businesses, with the goal of empowering 
these organizations to be better able to compete with 
other established companies for supplier relationship 
opportunities with Windstream. While a supplier’s ultimate 
ability to deliver value for our customers is paramount, 
certified diverse vendor status is identified during the RFP process and is considered in our supplier selection. Our 
goal to ensure a level playing field for all vendors. 
As a federal contractor, Windstream is required to report 
spend with diverse suppliers on an annual basis to the 
General Services Administration. Over the past three 
years, Windstream has reported a total spend of more 
than $400 million with 500 diverse suppliers. We are 
proud of these efforts and continue to seek out more 
opportunities to work with diverse suppliers.
Supplier Diversity 50
QUICK 
NAV
Responsible Minerals
Sourcing
Any connection between the materials used in 
Windstream’s products and armed violence or human 
rights abuses is unacceptable, and we have an internal 
team that oversees the design, development and 
implementation of our conflict minerals compliance 
program. Every year, Windstream files its Form SD and 
Conflict Minerals Report with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission disclosing our due diligence efforts and 
results; see our current SEC Conflict Minerals Report . 
Windstream also expects its suppliers to take steps to 
ensure that their products do not include materials that either directly or indirectly benefit armed groups in the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo (or in any neighboring 
country). As part of their master purchasing agreements 
with Windstream, suppliers agree to provide us with 
information regarding the country of origin and source 
of conflict minerals used, if any, in the supplier goods 
sold to us. If a supplier is found to not be in compliance 
with these objectives, the supplier is expected to 
develop, implement and document plans to remedy 
the non-compliance, and Windstream has the right to 
terminate its relationship with the supplier in the event of 
continued non-compliance. 51
QUICK 
NAV
Supplier Sustainability
Efforts 
It is Windstream’s policy to work with supply 
partners that share our commitment to 
sustainable practices. We expect our suppliers to 
comply with applicable environmental laws and 
have their own sustainability programs in order 
to support our goals. This expectation is a key 
evaluation criteria during our supplier selection 
process and is incorporated into every supplier 
contract and purchase order. It is also a crucial 
component of our Supplier Code of Conduct.  
