ESG
TOP RATEDINDUST RYESG
TOP R ATEDREGIONAL
2021-22 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) ReportAPPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIXWindstream Holdings is a privately held 
Fortune® 1000 communications and software 
company. Windstream offers managed 
communications services, including SD-WAN 
and UCaaS, and high-capacity bandwidth and 
transport services to businesses across the 
U.S. The company also provides premium 
broadband, entertainment, and security 
services through an enhanced fiber network to 
consumers and small and midsize businesses 
primarily in rural areas in 18 states.TABLE OF CONTENTS
©2021 Fortune Media IP Limited. All rights reserved. Used under license. Fortune and Fortune 1000 are registered trademarks of Fortune Media IP Limited and are used under license. Fortune is not affiliated with, and does not endorse products or services of, Windstream.
APPROACH  
Committed to addressing 
environmental and social risks  
and opportunities
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT & CEO ... 2
ESG STRATEGY .............................................. 3
ESG PRIORITIES ............................................ 4
ESG TRANSPARENCY .................................... 5
ENVIRONMENTAL
Safeguarding the Environment
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .......................... 7
EMISSIONS AND CARBON INTENSITY ........ 8
OUR EMISSIONS BY SCOPE ......................... 9 
RENEWABLE AND CARBON-FREE  
ENERGY ....................................................... 10
FLEET ........................................................... 11
REAL ESTATE ............................................... 12
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP .......................... 12
PAPER .......................................................... 13
WATER CONSERVATION ............................ 13
BUSINESS CONTINUITY ............................. 14SOCIAL
Treating people with respect
DIGITAL INCLUSION ................................... 16
ACCESSIBILITY ............................................ 17
DIGITAL SAFETY .......................................... 18
ROBOCALLS ................................................ 18
OPEN INTERNET ......................................... 19
PRIVACY AND DATA PROTECTION ........... 20
CYBERSECURITY ......................................... 21
HUMAN CAPITAL GUIDING PRINCIPLES .. 22
COMMITTED TO RESPECTFUL  
WORKPLACE ............................................... 23
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT ........................ 24
EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION  
AND BENEFITS ............................................ 25
WINDSTREAM’S STATEMENT  
ON DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (D&I) ........... 26
HUMAN PROSPERITY (PHILANTHROPY) .. 27
KEY PARTNERS ............................................ 28
VETERANS ................................................... 29
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS ............... 30
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT ............... 31
SAFETY ......................................................... 32
LABOR RELATIONS ..................................... 33
SUPPLY CHAIN ............................................ 33
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY .................................. 34GOVERNANCE
Holding ourselves accountable
HOW WE GOVERN ...................................... 36
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE ........................ 37
CODE OF CONDUCT ................................... 38
HUMAN RIGHTS ......................................... 39
APPENDIX
Alignment with the United Nations 
Global Compact’s Sustainable 
Development Goals ................................... 41
Definition of Material Issues ..................... 42
ESG Data Index ........................................... 43
Law Enforcement Requests ...................... 46
GRI Index ..................................................... 47APPROACH  
Committed to addressing 
environmental and social risks  
and opportunities
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT & CEO – 2
ESG STRATEGY – 3
ESG PRIORITIES – 4
ESG TRANSPARENCY – 5
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 1APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2Windstream accelerated the pace and expanded 
the scope of our Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) programs and disclosures 
during the past year. Our 2021 ESG Report 
highlights the work we did in this vitally  
important area.
I am proud that Windstream received the top ESG 
risk rating among U.S.-based telecommunications 
providers in September 2021 by Sustainalytics, 
a Morningstar company. Sustainalytics’ 
comprehensive assessment demonstrates that 
Windstream is positioning itself to minimize 
environmental impacts, to treat customers, 
employees and partners fairly, and to govern 
itself with the highest ethical standards.
In January 2022, Windstream was also recognized 
as a Sustainalytics ESG Industry Top Rated 
company (telecommunications) and a Regional 
Top Rated company (U.S. and Canada). 
Windstream received a “B,” or Management 
band, score from the CDP, formerly known as 
the Carbon Disclosure Project, in 2021. CDP is 
a non-profit organization operating a global 
environmental disclosure system for investors, 
companies, cities, states and regions to manage 
their risks and opportunities on climate change, 
water security and deforestation.
Following a 23% increase in our use of renewable 
energy last year and a related 11.9% reduction 
in emissions tied to the electricity needed to 
power our operations, our goal is to earn an 
“A,” or Leadership band, score from CDP in 
the upcoming cycle. In September, we also 
announced plans to more rapidly reduce our 
Scope 2 purchased electricity greenhouse 
gas emissions. We will now reduce Scope 2 purchased electricity emissions 40 percent by 
2025. Our previous target had been to reduce 
those emissions 30 percent (from a 2019 
baseline) by 2035.
I am also delighted that Windstream was 
named to Newsweek’s Most Loved Workplaces 
list for 2021, ranking at #63 among the top 
100 companies recognized for employee 
happiness and satisfaction at work. Produced in 
collaboration with the Best Practice Institute, a 
leadership development and benchmark research 
company, the Newsweek list results were 
determined after surveying more than 800,000 
employees from businesses with workforces 
varying in size from 50 to more than 10,000.
Reflecting that high level of employee satisfactio n, 
our own annual survey of engagement, 
conducted by a third party research firm, 
produced an employee engagement score in 
line with the benchmark for our industry and a 
manager effectiveness score  
well above the benchmark.
Our team understood even before the COVID-19 
pandemic that the services we provide are 
essential to the economic, educational and 
cultural health of the mostly rural communities 
that Windstream serves. We are engaged in a 
five-year, $2 billion fiber build program, and in 
2021 alone deployed fiber-backed gigabit internet 
services to an additional 523,000 locations. Our 
fiber network now reaches 1.1 million locations, 
or 20 percent of our footprint.
We are actively pursuing public-private 
partnerships across our 18 states to deploy 
fiber in underserved rural areas where it 
would otherwise be uneconomical to do so. That effort was highlighted recently by a $300 
million partnership that will deliver high-speed 
broadband to 18 communities across Georgia. 
Windstream’s commitment to serving our 
customers and to maintaining a strong ESG 
program starts at the very top of the company. 
Our governing Board of Managers (“Board”) 
assigned five of its members to oversee our 
internal ESG Operational Committee, which is 
charged with managing our performance and 
reporting. 
Under our Board’s direction, Windstream joined 
the UN Global Compact to promote accountability 
and stakeholder engagement in the areas of 
human rights, labor and environment. As we 
mark the first anniversary of our membership, 
we continue to support the UNGC and its ten 
principles, and this report serves as our annual 
UNGC Communication on Progress.
In addition, Windstream is committed to the 
UNGC’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
and we believe we can make a substantial 
impact towards achieving targets across the 7 
SDGs relevant to our industry and company, as 
outlined later in this report.
Windstream is stronger and better positioned 
than ever to drive value for our stakeholders. And 
we firmly believe that our aspirational ESG goals 
not only help our business but also ensure we do 
our part to be good citizens of this planet.APPROACH
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT & CEOAPPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 3ESG STRATEGYAPPROACH
At Windstream, two overarching statements guide everything we do:
To provide innovative software and network solutions while 
consistently delivering an amazing customer experience.
Consistent with these guiding principles, our ESG strategy is 
to proactively and efficiently manage the environmental and 
social risks and opportunities that arise from the operation of 
our business. 
Windstream’s capital structure ensures we are well-positioned 
to continue making substantial network and software 
investments, fuel innovation and sustainable growth, and drive 
value for all our stakeholders and society at large. Our commitment to addressing ESG issues is embedded at 
every level of the company. It includes Board of Managers 
oversight through quarterly and ad hoc meetings, officer-level 
engagement and a broader team of dedicated professionals 
who focus on specific issues and engage other leaders across 
the business.
CORE VALUES
Take ownership . Be responsive 
and transparent. Fulfill your 
obligations to your customers, 
team members and the company .ACCOUNTABILITY
Be nimble. Seek out 
opportunities to improve. 
Think and act in a way that 
embraces change.
AGILITY
Serve others. Cultivate a  
climate of dignity , trust and 
respect for all. Consider others’ 
opinions equal to your own.RESPECT
 COLLABORATION
Come together. Work with 
others to achieve shared 
goals. Foster an environment 
of teamwork.
OUR MISSION
OUR VISIONConnect people and empower business  
in a world of infinite possibilities.
This report is informed by the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) standards, feedback received through 
engagement with our investors, and industry 
best-practices. It is also informed by an ESG risk 
rating, materiality assessment, and benchmarking 
engagement with Sustainalytics (a Morningstar 
company), the largest and leading independent 
global provider of ESG and corporate governance 
research and ratings. 
A Materiality Matrix presents a view of the most 
material ESG issues from a business, environmental 
and social impact perspective. This is different 
from financial materiality, which is a threshold for 
influencing the investment decisions of investors. ESG issues can be presented as the most important 
sources of risk if not managed well. The location on 
the matrix indicates the relative importance of the 
ESG issue, with those located at the top right corner 
being the most material for the industry as a whole.
Each issue is prioritized in the Materiality Matrix 
according to the degree to which it could potentially 
impact our business and society. Our ESG strategy 
cares for all of the listed issues.
Key ESG issues are those deemed most relevant to 
Windstream by Sustainalytics as part of its ESG risk 
rating process.
C FB EA D Human Rights – Supply Chain
Human Capital
Carbon – Own OperationsHIGH MEDIUMSUSTAINABILITY IMPACT
LOW
HIGH MEDIUM
BUSINESS IMPACTLOWA
EDBCFMateriality Matrix 
Product Governance
Business Ethics
Data Privacy & Security
= Key ESG Issues
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 4ESG PRIORITIESAPPROACH
Please see Appendix for definition of Material Issues.APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 5ESG TRANSPARENCY
Although Windstream is now a privately held company, our commitment to transparency and reporting 
on our corporate social responsibility performance continues through this annual ESG report, our 
participation in the CDP emissions reporting process (and related third party assurance and verification 
of our submission), our commitment to actively engage with ESG risk rating agencies to help ensure full, 
transparent and accurate information on our policies, programs and performance against targets, and by 
sharing relevant policy and program disclosures on our Investor Relations website. 
Last year, we advanced our reporting strategy by providing both an ESG data index and a GRI index 
showing how our disclosures align with the Global Reporting Initiative’s ESG reporting standards. We 
also made our CDP submission and emissions reporting public and disclosed a substantial amount of 
relevant ESG data and information for the first time, including things like the demographic make-up or 
our workforce, training and safety statistics, political spending, recycling efforts, and our use of renewable 
energy, among others.APPROACH
In our report this year, we added information and 
disclosures regarding:
• Our alignment with the United Nations Global Compact’s 
Sustainable Development Goals
• Our annual Employee Engagement and Manager 
Effectiveness Survey
• The number of temporary employees, contractors and 
offshore resources we utilize
• Total Scope 2 Purchased Electricity KWH usage by year 
across the Company
• A 23% increase in our use of renewable and carbon-free 
energy sources
• A more aggressive Scope 2 Purchased Electricity 
emissions reduction target
• Law Enforcement data requests
• A new Conflict Minerals Policy
• A new water conservation target
• An increase in the scope of the Social Supplier Standards 
included in our Supplier Code of Ethics
• Inclusion of a direct reference to the International Labor 
Organization’s conventions and standards in our Non-
Discrimination PolicyENVIRONMENTAL
Safeguarding the Environment
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT – 7
EMISSIONS AND CARBON INTENSITY – 8
OUR EMISSIONS BY SCOPE – 9 
RENEWABLE AND CARBON-FREE ENERGY – 10
FLEET – 11
REAL ESTATE – 12
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP – 12
PAPER – 13
WATER CONSERVATION – 13
BUSINESS CONTINUITY – 14
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 6WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO: 
 Environmental protection and creating 
environmental awareness
 Maintaining our Environmental Management 
System (EMS)
 Using natural resources and energy more efficiently
 Working diligently to reduce our overall emissions 
and sources of waste
 Monitoring and reporting on our environmental 
performance and any material issues that arise
 Consulting with relevant stakeholders on 
environmental issues
 Managing the regulatory, reputational and market 
risks related to climate change
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 
Windstream is committed to environmental stewardship. We believe that companies have a significant 
role to play in reducing our society’s environmental impact on our planet. At Windstream, sustainability 
efforts are an obligation, not a choice. Our corporate sustainability program and environmental policy 
combine common-sense strategies with more ambitious long-term initiatives to become more resource 
efficient. This approach allows us to make improvements while balancing the needs of our customers, 
employees, and shareholders.
To hold ourselves accountable, set goals and measure our performance, we began voluntarily 
participating in the CDP’s global environmental disclosure system in 2008. We believe in making 
environmental reporting and risk management a business norm and driving disclosure, insight, and 
action towards a sustainable economy.ENVIRONMENTAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 7EMISSIONS AND CARBON INTENSITY  
Emissions and carbon intensity, typically calculated as metric tons of C02e per 
U.S. $100 million of annual revenue, are heavily influenced by customer growth 
and geographic expansion, the level of capital investment in our network, and 
how efficiently and sustainably Windstream supports these activities.
Understanding that our customer footprint is largely rural and requires that 
we cover greater distances to support them, it is natural that our carbon 
intensity may be higher than others in our industry whose customers are in 
more densely populated urban areas. Being mindful of this, Windstream is 
committed to integrating the concept of eco-design into our product selection, 
network infrastructure, and operational strategies. This tangibly means 
migrating from older technologies to newer, more energy-efficient solutions, 
including from copper-based services to fiber, to edge routers that require 
60% less energy per unit of output, installing energy-efficient LED lighting and 
low-carbon natural gas generators in our facilities, reducing our corporate 
and network real estate footprint, and using leaner, more virtual and efficient 
hardware and cooling solutions in ongoing data center rationalization efforts. 
It also means innovation and investment in remote diagnostics, more reliable 
and resilient infrastructure and hardware, equipment that can be self-installed, 
and improvements to call center help-desk effectiveness and first-time repair 
quality, which all serve to reduce technician dispatches to customer locations, 
truck rolls and gallons of fuel consumed.ENVIRONMENTAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 8Windstream is committed to integrating the concept of eco-design into our 
product selection, network infrastructure, and operational strategies.Emissions 2019 2020 2021 2021 vs 2020
Scope 1 60,350 62,956 59,133 -6.1%
Scope 2 286,039 232,749 205,115 -11.9%
Total GHG (Scope 1 & 2) 346,389 295,705 264,248 -10.6%
Carbon Intensity 67.71 63.39 59.79 -5.7%
Scope 3 (all) 479,363 508,403 522,972 2.9%
Scope 3 (business travel only) 5,792 1,908 1,879 -1.5%
Total Emissions (Scope 1, 2 & 3) 825,752 804,108 787,220 -2.1%
OUR EMISSIONS BY SCOPE 
In 2021, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions were down 
by 10.6% from the prior year, or by 31,457 metric 
tons of CO2e as a result of our renewable energy 
program, continued real estate rationalization 
efforts and migration to more energy efficient 
technologies across our network. These strategies 
and investments directly contributed to a 5.7% 
decrease in our overall Carbon Intensity score on 
top of the 6.4% decrease achieved in 2020.
Note that Windstream’s Scope 2 purchased 
electricity emissions fell by 11.9% last year, and 
by 28.3% over the past two. The reduction in 2021 
can most directly be attributed to our efforts to 
transform and upgrade our network using more 
energy efficient technologies and solutions, and 
our multi-year real estate consolidation efforts 
that reduced corporate real estate square 
footage by 23% since 2016. While those efforts 
continue, the reduction this past year can most 
directly be attributed to the increase in our use of 
renewable and carbon-free energy, up 23% from 
the prior year. This is evidenced by the fact that 
Windstream’s total KWH demand last year was only 
down 3.1% vs. the much larger decrease in Scope 2 
emissions of 11.9%.
As a result of our success in driving Scope 2 
emission reductions across all of these initiatives, 
Windstream set a more aggressive emissions 
reduction target, seeking to reduce our total Scope 
2 emissions by 40% from the 2019 baseline by 2025. 
Our previous goal was a 30% reduction by 2035. 
At the end of 2021, we stood at a 28% reduction 
from 2019. With another 13% to go by 2025, we are 
confident we will meet - or exceed - the target.ENVIRONMENTAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 9Windstream KWH Scope 2 Purchased Electricity Use by Year
Scope 1: Direct sources of emissions owned or controlled by Windstream (fuel to power our fleet, heat buildings and 
power generators)
Scope 2: Indirect emissions purchased by Windstream but generated offsite (almost exclusively electricity to power our 
network and data centers)
Scope 3: Value chain emissions, defined as emissions that are the result of activities from assets not owned or controlled 
by Windstream, but that indirectly impact in our value chain, which often represent the majority of an organization’s 
GHG emissions. Of the 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions, 9 are relevant to Windstream and included in our Scope 3 
reporting: (1) purchased goods and services; (2) capital goods; (3) fuel and energy-related activities not included in Scope 
1 and 2; (4) upstream transportation and distribution; (5) waste generated in operations; (6) business travel; (7) employee 
commuting; (8) upstream leased assets, and (9) use of sold products.
Carbon Intensity: Metric tons of Scope 1 and 2 CO2e per US$100M of revenueDemand 2019 2020 2021 2021 vs 2020
Total KWH 624,895,914 544,723,393 527,621,318 -3.1%264,248
CO2e
(metric tons)
Vehicle Fuels Building and
other FuelsElectricity 77.6%2.5%19.9%GHG Emissions (CO2e metric tons) 2021 GHG Profile – Scope 1 and 2RENEWABLE AND CARBON-FREE ENERGY 
Windstream recognizes that we will require substantial amounts of energy to power our 
network and facilities in order to effectively serve our customers. As a company with 
stated goals to reduce our carbon footprint, this means that responsible consumption 
must remain a top priority. To us, responsible consumption starts with eco-design in 
the solutions we architect and the energy efficient technology and equipment we elect 
to deploy. It also means working diligently to ensure that as much of the energy we do 
consume is generated from renewable and carbon-free sources. 
To that end, we formally initiated a renewable and carbon-free energy program in 2020 
and entered into our first community solar program in New York for a small percentage 
of our overall demand. In 2021, we contracted for additional renewable energy with 
utility providers in Ohio, Illinois and Texas. Our renewable energy agreement with ENGIE 
Resources in Texas is our largest to date, covering 100% of our annual forecasted energy 
consumption across all of Windstream’s more than 400 locations in the state with energy 
supplied by the Live Oaks wind project. Combining the agreements with providers in all 
three states, we replaced an incremental 7.2% of our total energy needs across the entire 
company last year with production from renewable sources.
As a result of these efforts, we increased the percentage of our Scope 2 purchased 
electricity coming from renewable and carbon-free sources from 34.9% in 2020 to 42.1% in 
2021, a 21% increase year-over-year. With additional renewable energy initiatives planned 
for 2022, we now expect to be within 4% of our stated 2025 goal to secure at least 50% of 
our electricity needs from these sources by mid-2023. 
The table below outlines Windstream’s sources of Scope 2 purchased electricity based on 
the 2021 EIA Source Breakdown by state. In 2021, approximately 25.8% of all Windstream 
Scope 2 purchased electricity came from renewable sources, and 42.1% came from sources 
considered carbon-free. Renewables include geothermal, hydroelectric, solar thermal, wind 
and wood or wood-derived fuels. Carbon-free includes all categories of renewables plus 
energy derived from nuclear power.ENVIRONMENTAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 10Energy Source Prior After Change
Natural Gas 38.0% 33.5%
-7.2%Coal 26.6% 24.0%
Other - Conventional 0.5% 0.4%
 Total Conventional 65.1% 57.9%
Nuclear 18.2% 16.3%
+7.2%Wind 9.6% 18.8%
Hydroelectric Conventional 3.8% 3.8%
Other - Renewable 3.3% 3.2%
 Total Renewable and Carbon Free 34.9% 42.1%In March of 2022, Windstream entered into a second renewable 
energy agreement with Engie Resources for power in New York 
and Pennsylvania from another of their wind farm projects. Our 
energy demand in these two states represent approximately 6.4% 
of our total annual electricity across our entire footprint. With this 
contract in place, Windstream is now just 2% shy of hitting our goal 
of obtaining at least 50% of our Scope 2 purchased electricity from 
renewable and carbon free sources by 2025.FLEET
Windstream operates the 51st largest truck fleet and one of the top 100 largest commercial 
fleets in the United States, and the fuel to power these vehicles is the single largest 
source of our Scope 1 emissions, accounting for 88% of this segment last year. In order 
to achieve our target of reducing Scope 1 emissions intensity 20% by 2025 from the 
2019 baseline year, Windstream initiated a fleet renewal and modernization effort that 
increases the average MPG of the fleet by that same amount over the next five years by 
moving from heavier, 8-cylinder trucks to more efficient and lighter V-6 models. This effort 
will also reduce the average age of our vehicles by 37% and subsequently result in lower 
maintenance costs, allowing us to achieve an annual run-rate reduction of fleet operating 
expenses by more than an estimated $7.8 million. 
As outlined in the tables below, we saw a 2.9% reduction in the number of gallons 
consumed by our fleet from the prior year, despite a 5.7% increase in the number of 
consumer households served in our network and a 1.4% increase in overall vehicle count.  
The reduction in gallons consumed can be explained predominantly by: (1) our continued 
efforts to reduce the need to dispatch technicians to homes and businesses by improving 
remote diagnostics and call center effectiveness as well as improving initial quality (fixing 
issues correctly on the first attempt) to avoid repeat trouble tickets; (2) implementation of 
self-installation modem kits that don’t require a technician to install, and; (3) our decision 
to end “home garaging” of company vehicles midway through the year, a risk mitigation 
policy we had adopted during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic to enable technicians 
to minimize group and in-person contact at our normal reporting centers that resulted in 
more average miles driven and gallons consumed. 
Since our Kinetic consumer business accounts for approximately 85% of our fleet, 
consumer households represent the best proxy for growth in demand for dispatches and 
miles driven.In 2022, we expect a larger contribution and reduction as a result of our fleet 
modernization and GPS/telematics solution which should both help reduce gallons 
consumed by improving MPG performance and reducing engine idle time, respectively. Full 
implementation of these initiatives last year was delayed by global supply chain challenges.
We are also adding another 725 vehicles to our fleet as we insource a large portion of 
our outside plant construction services. Some of these assets were received in 2021 and 
account for the small overall increase to our fleet size reported in the table above. Of  
these new vehicles, 70% will use bio-fuels, which are expected to release 70% less CO2  
than gasoline.
Lastly, our team continues to monitor the evolution of electric and hybrid vehicles and 
intends to begin integrating them into our fleet as they become cost and operationally 
feasible. We are planning to initiate an EV pilot program in 2023.ENVIRONMENTAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 11Category 2019 2020 2021 21 vs 20
Gallons Consumed 5,346,948 5,988,229 5,816,340 - 2.9%
Vehicle Count 4,481 4,338 4,397 + 1.4%
Consumer Households 1,027,366 1,057,415 1,117,303 + 5.7%
# of Repair Dispatches 660,153 639,540 601,949 - 5.9%
# of New Service Dispatches 414,393 415,391 397,910 - 4.2%REAL ESTATE  
Windstream’s real estate portfolio consisted of 3,546 
owned and leased facilities as of Dec. 31, 2021, down 22 
from the prior year. Approximately 10% of our locations 
are designated as corporate and regional offices based on 
primary use and the remaining 90% as network locations. 
Since embarking on a strategic real estate rationalization 
and consolidation initiative in 2016, we have exited 160 
sites resulting in an overall square footage reduction of 9%. 
With another 37 exits planned in 2022, we intend to reduce 
our overall footprint by another 3% this year. This will 
correspond to a 23% reduction in square footage within the 
corporate segment from the 2016 baseline.
Our current data center footprint, included in the 
network real estate segment, is largely the result of past 
acquisitions, and these centers are heavy users of Scope 
2 purchased electricity. Windstream is undertaking a 
significant modernization and consolidation effort, with 
a target of going from the nine centers to a significantly 
smaller footprint over the next five years. By migrating 
from heavier, energy intensive legacy hardware to leaner, 
virtual and more energy efficient solutions, we expect to 
achieve material reductions in Scope 2 emissions tied  
to our baseline operations today, even adjusted for 
planned growth.PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Windstream’s product stewardship programs are designed 
to minimize the health, safety, environmental, and social 
impacts of the products and their packaging that we sell 
or install in our network, while also maximizing economic 
benefits. The lifecycle of a product and its packaging is 
often associated with energy and materials consumption, 
waste generation, toxic substances, greenhouse gases, and 
other air and water emissions.
Our goal is to divert 100% of our consumer modems, set-
top boxes, network devices and other electronics from 
landfills by refurbishing, redeploying or recycling them. 
When we are unable to reuse equipment, we next market 
it for resale and reuse through approved gray market 
vendors, and ultimately scrap and recycle the product as a 
last resort.
Windstream has assigned resources to manage the reverse 
logistics processes for consumer modems, as well as 
enterprise and network hardware and equipment that are 
designed to achieve our goal of 100% landfill avoidance.In 2021, we refurbished 146,618 consumer modems, up 
131% from the prior year, and 158,668 pieces of enterprise 
and network equipment for redeployment. We also sold 
more than 27,515 pieces of equipment we could no longer 
utilize and recycled 620,672 of obsolete equipment for 
reuse by others on the gray market.
Windstream recycled another 575 tons of e-waste 
generated through other operational waste streams last 
year, up 21% from 2020 as a result of a centralized, national 
program we began implementing in 2018. These recycling 
efforts included more than 16 tons of batteries and 257 
tons of ferrous metals and avoided an estimated 555 
metric tons of CO2e greenhouse gas emissions. 
We also avoided more than 2 tons of hazardous waste 
that was diverted from landfills to recyclers, and as part 
of our ongoing commitment to reduce hazardous waste, 
will continue to monitor, measure and report on this 
initiative and our progress in subsequent annual ESG 
reports. Our e-waste vendors are certified recyclers that 
meet electronics waste recycling standards, such as R2 or 
e-Stewards.ENVIRONMENTAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 12Stewardship Category 2020 2021 % Change
Number of Consumer Modems Refurbished 63,526 146,618 +131%
Pieces of Enterprise and Network Equipment Redeployed 79,395 158,668 +100%
Pieces of All Equipment Sold on Gray Market 20,850 27,515 +32%
Tons of Batteries Recycled 27 16 -41%
Tons of Ferrous Metals Recycled 209 257 +23%
Total Tons of E-Waste Recycled (All Types) 475 575 +21%
Tons of CO2e Greenhouse Gas Emissions Avoided (est.) 1,456 1,643 +13%
Tons of Hazardous Waste Diverted from Landfills (est.) 5 2 -60%
PAPER 
Windstream is committed to the sustainable 
sourcing and use of paper, and we established 
a target in 2016 to reduce our office paper 
consumption by 75% by 2025. In 2021, we 
reduced our consumption by another 5% on top 
of the 38% achieved in 2019, and we are now 
86% below our 2016 baseline. We exceeded our 
goal last year, five years earlier than planned. 
Some of the decrease last year was due to 
greater numbers of our workforce working 
remotely as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
but most was the result of focused efforts to 
reduce the number of copiers, establish default 
settings for double-sided printing, and reduce 
overall demand by printing less and using 
more online collaboration tools, electronic 
presentations and reporting formats. We expect 
these reductions to be sustained and improved 
upon in subsequent years. It is our sourcing policy to give purchasing 
preference to products that are certified by 
the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) wherever 
possible, include measurable  
amounts of Post-Consumer Waste (PCW), that 
are processed chlorine-free or that utilize the 
best available technologies, and to suppliers that 
can identify the source of their products and 
verify they do not contain fibers from ancient 
or endangered forests. In 2021, 100% of our 
sourced office paper was FSC certified and 6.3% 
included at least 30% PCW content. Office paper 
is recycled using bins and a third-party shredding 
provider.
Having exceeded our primary goal of reducing 
consumption and paper use, Windstream is now 
focused on increasing the percentage of paper 
that includes PCW, and we have set a target 
to have at least 50% of all office-related paper 
include a minimum of 30% PCW by 2025.WATER CONSERVATION 
Windstream’s original conservation goal was to 
reduce our freshwater use 25% or 77 million gallons 
by 2025 from our 2016 baseline year for owned 
and leased properties where water consumption is 
reported. With the single biggest source of our water use tied to the facilities 
we own and lease, managerial responsibility for monitoring, measuring and 
reporting water use is assigned to the chief procurement officer and the 
corporate real estate and facilities team that reports into this role.
Our original goal was achieved in 2019, and through 2021, we are pleased to 
report that water consumption was down 58% or 176 million gallons from our 
2016 baseline year. While our consumption was down 5% or 7 million gallons 
in 2021 from the prior year, we anticipate a small increase in 2022 as our 
teams return more regularly to offices. Our new goal is to sustain at least a 
50% reduction from our 2016 baseline.  ENVIRONMENTAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 13OFFICE PAPER CONSUMPTION REDUCTION
 43%  86%  
 in 2021 from 2016 Baseline
Water Consumption 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Millions of Gallons 306 274 260 2201137 130CONSUMPTION 
DOWN  
58%
or 
176M  
gallons
1. 2019 is estimated due to tracking complexities during Windstream’s restructuring process that yearBUSINESS CONTINUITY 
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Windstream implemented several 
provisions of our Business Continuity and 
Pandemic Response Plans, which provide 
a standardized strategy for managing 
potentially disruptive events. Key strategies 
for continuity of our operations were 
transitioning our employees to virtual 
home offices in most locations utilizing 
the company’s robust collaboration 
tools, including OfficeSuite HD Meeting®, 
equipping our employees with personal 
protective equipment (i.e., masks, hand 
sanitizer, gloves) and safety protocols based 
on CDC guidance, and engaging critical 
suppliers and vendors to ensure their 
capacity to provide product and service 
continuity.
Windstream’s Corporate Business 
Continuity Management Program’s mission 
is to identify risk to its essential business 
functions by developing plans to mitigate 
those risks to protect our employees, 
business operations, customers, and key 
stakeholders. As part of our program goals, 
we promote business continuity awareness 
and participation at all levels within the 
company. We do this through annual 
training and exercises, and by observing 
Business Continuity Awareness Week each 
May, which highlights the importance of 
business continuity and focuses on building 
and investing in resiliency. 
Annually, we conduct a Business Impact 
Analysis to ensure that the essential 
business functions are included in our plans 
for recovery and restoration in the event of a disaster or business disruption. In 
conjunction with the impact analysis, a risk 
and threat analysis review is conducted for 
an understanding of any site vulnerabilities 
to determine remediation and consider 
mitigation as appropriate in the recovery 
strategies. 
The recovery strategies are intended to 
minimize the decision-making process 
during a business continuity event or 
catastrophic event. A catastrophic event that 
could cause or has caused significant impact 
to our People, Premises, Resources, and 
Suppliers (P.P.R.S.). Catastrophic events are 
many, ranging from natural disasters (e.g., 
floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes), 
technological disasters (e.g., cyber incidents/
data breaches), pandemics, to man-made 
disasters (e.g., work-place violence, active-
shooter). 
Our Business Continuity Management 
Program in collaboration with key business 
process owners and leads has prepared and maintains plans for responding to 
these events with documented Business 
Continuity Plans, Crisis Management and 
Communication Plans, and Emergency 
Action Plans.
Our teams are trained on the recovery 
and restoration procedures through 
participation in structured walkthroughs 
and tabletop exercises, and functional 
integrated system tests. The recovery and 
restoration procedures are developed to 
respond to events impacting our P.P.R.S. 
Specifically, the recovery strategies consider 
a loss of facility, loss of systems, or loss of 
facility and resources/suppliers. 
Our business continuity management 
program manager is certified by the 
Business Continuity Institute and in 
the international business continuity 
standard ISO 22301:2012. For ease of 
access and management of the Business Continuity Management Program, we 
have implemented a Business Continuity 
Management (BCM) SaaS solution, which 
facilitates the administration and utilization 
of our plans. The BCM system allows for the 
plans to be maintained in a real-time mode 
instead of hardcopies for quicker and more 
effective response during an event with the 
latest updates to plan components as well 
as the monitoring of a plan activation and 
recovery activities following an event. 
Before, during, and after an event, crisis 
communication is facilitated via our 
WIN Alerts notification system, which 
is imperative to ensure a coordinated, 
consistent, monitored and controlled 
message throughout the event up until 
returning to normal operations, which 
ultimately addresses one of the primary 
goals to provide situational awareness  
and transparency and maintain  
customer confidence.ENVIRONMENTAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 14Windstream’s Corporate Business Continuity Management 
Program’s mission is to identify risk to its essential business 
functions by developing plans to mitigate those risks to  
protect our employees, business operations, customers,  
and key stakeholders.APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 15SOCIAL
Treating people with respect
DIGITAL INCLUSION  – 16
ACCESSIBILITY – 17
DIGITAL SAFETY – 18
ROBOCALLS – 18
OPEN INTERNET – 19
PRIVACY AND DATA PROTECTION – 20
CYBERSECURITY – 21
HUMAN CAPITAL GUIDING PRINCIPLES – 22
COMMITTED TO RESPECTFUL WORKPLACE – 23
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT – 24
EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS – 25
WINDSTREAM’S STATEMENT ON DIVERSITY & INCLUSION (D&I) – 26
HUMAN PROSPERITY (PHILANTHROPY) – 27
KEY PARTNERS – 28
VETERANS – 29
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS –30
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT – 31
SAFETY – 32
LABOR RELATIONS –33
SUPPLY CHAIN – 33
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY – 34DIGITAL INCLUSION 
At the end of 2021, Windstream had 4.9 million locations in its ILEC footprint: 
4.6 million are residential with the remaining 300,000 classified as business. 
Windstream’s footprint is largely rural with 96% of our service territory falling 
outside of municipal boundaries. More than 47% of Windstream’s residential 
locations and 15% of business locations fall outside of municipal boundaries. 
Those locations are spread across 146,000 square miles in 18 states for a 
population density of 15 locations per square mile. Only 4% (or 6,000 square 
miles) of Windstream’s ILEC territory fall within a municipal boundary. Windstream 
is wholly invested in all our customers and laser-focused on bridging the digital 
divide. Deploying broadband to rural America can be very costly, so Windstream 
looks to participate in federal, state, and local grant programs to help make 
the necessary network builds economically feasible. With roughly half of our 
residential locations falling outside of municipal boundaries, grant programs are 
instrumental in improving speeds to our most unserved locations. 
In 2021 alone, Windstream secured approximately $64 million in state and local 
grants to deploy fiber to the home (FttH) to approximately 18,000 locations, 
enabling speeds of 1 gigabit per second. Prior to 2021, our participation in 
state and local grant programs yielded about $34 million in funding to deliver 
broadband to about 17,000 locations. 
In November 2020, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) concluded the 
Rural Digital Opportunity Fund (RDOF) reverse auction. Windstream was successful 
in securing funding to deliver FttH services to approximately 193,000 locations 
across 18 states. We were the fifth largest winner in the auction and the fourth 
largest in our ILEC states, securing $53 million annually in funding. RDOF funds 
are to be used to serve locations within census blocks that no provider claims they 
can offer service of at least 25/3. Windstream’s RDOF efforts are expected to bring 
gigabit speeds to more than 7,700 additional square miles and approximately 
106,000 new locations outside of our existing service footprint—95% of this 
territory and 89% of the locations fall outside of a municipal boundary.
Moving forward, we plan to expand our fiber-focused approach to broadband 
builds. Windstream has committed the necessary funds to fuel our robust capital 
investment program to expand 1 gigabit per second broadband service in rural 
America. We are committed to bringing the speeds needed to enable working  
from home, digital learning, and telehealth to our customers. Broadband service  
is a community growth-driver, and we are committed to our communities and  
our customers.SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 16ACCESSIBILITY  
Our consumer segment, Kinetic by Windstream, works closely 
with our agency partners and internal creative teams to ensure 
that the people we portray in our videos and advertisements 
visually reflect and celebrate the diversity of our company and 
the communities we serve.
Additionally, we are committed to ensuring that our digital 
brand presence (windstream.com, myWIN portal) adhere to 
accessibility guidelines and requirements so that people with 
disabilities (vision impairments, etc.) can access and understand 
all of the critical information therein.SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 17DIGITAL SAFETY
Kinetic allows our customers to select the features that are right for 
them, and those features cover a wide variety of digital security needs. 
Whether it is computers or devices, wireless cameras, door locks or any 
other type of connected device, Kinetic Secure customers are instantly 
protected on the gateway modems with no action required.
Kinetic customers can take control of their home Wi-Fi network by 
managing settings with our Go Kinetic app, and when they are away from 
home, we protect users digitally with our “On the Go” app. 
Our packages offer options for device protection and software security 
with antivirus, malware, and phishing protection, malicious website 
blocking, and banking protection. 
Our Digital Security allows users to create profiles for custom control and 
set up parental controls.
Backed by renowned F-Secure products, our software updates itself with 
new enhancements and upgrades delivered behind the scenes so our 
customers are hands off the technical details. 
We also provide Premium technical support for those times when a 
customer needs our help to set up their software safely and securely 
or connected devices. Kinetic strives to best protect our customers by 
marketing and encouraging proactive consults with our customers at the 
time of service activation versus retroactive troubleshooting with items 
such as endpoint application installation, parental control education, 
sharing best practices on device and password management, and more. 
Other options include identity theft protection with Credit Guard and 
Protection Plus for wire maintenance protection within the customer’s 
home.
Kinetic is committed to Digital Safety, and we also provide:
• Education to customers around online safety and threat management 
through blogs, quarterly newsletters and social media
• Engagement with Internet Safety Month annually to promote healthy 
online habits and the need for child protection to our customer base
How do you protect  
your family?  
Kinetic Secure by Windstream 
offers award winning Internet 
security that lets your family 
safely surf, shop, school, 
work, and more at home  
and on the go.  
ROBOCALLS 
Unwanted and illegal robocalls, robotexts, and spoofing remained significant issues in 
2021 for Windstream, its industry partners, and consumers. Windstream is committed to 
preventing illegal robocalls and malicious caller ID spoofing across its networks as a top 
priority in protecting consumers, yet malicious actors continue to increase the volume and 
sophistication of their tactics.
According to the FCC, unwanted robocalls are the biggest consumer complaint the agency 
receives by a significant margin with over 200,000 complaints each year1. YouMail, a third-
party analytics company, estimates the number of robocalls at 58.5 billion in 2019, 45.9 
billion in 2020, and 50.5 billion in 20212. Complicating the issue further, not all robocalls 
are illegal. For example, many banking and healthcare organizations rely on automated 
technologies to reach their large audiences.
Although Windstream and the FCC have taken significant measures to reduce the number 
of illegal and unwanted calls, technology makes it cheap and easy to generate massive 
numbers of automated phone calls or to “spoof” a caller ID, which occurs when a caller 
deliberately falsifies the information transmitted to the caller ID display in order to disguise 
their true identity. 
To help our customers protect themselves from such actions, Windstream has adopted 
a multifaceted approach to mitigate and provide relief to our Enterprise and Kinetic 
customers that we refer to as “SAFE.”
SAFE stands for:  
Spam Caller Identification - Complete  
Active Call Blocking for Invalid Callers - Complete  
Framework for Trust (STIR/SHAKEN) - Complete  
Elective Call Prevention – In progress, expected to rapidly follow STIR/SHAKEN
Spam Caller Identification  
In June 2019, Windstream activated a caller-ID based information service for all retail 
Kinetic and Enterprise customers. Using a calling number’s reputation score, developed 
using analysis of calling patterns across dozens of carriers nationally, Windstream 
began replacing the Caller Name value for suspected illegal robocallers with a SPAM or 
Fraudulent prefix.  
 
 
Windstream customers now have the option to accept or reject a call based on the calling 
name and number. The advantage of this early approach is that it avoids blocking so-called 
“false positives” and puts control in the hands of the Windstream subscriber.
Active Call Blocking  
Windstream acted quickly to implement blocking based on a set of rules the FCC issued 
starting in 2017. 
Windstream automatically blocks calls originating from: 1) numbers that the owner has 
requested be added to a national Do Not Originate (DNO) Registry – so-called incoming 
only numbers such as the IRS Toll Free number and 2) numbers that source from an invalid 
or unassigned number blocks. 
Blocking calls from invalid calling numbers prevents an incredible amount of robocalls 
from ever reaching Windstream subscribers, silently and stealthily killing bad calls without 
our customers even knowing that Windstream “has their back.”SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 181 – https://www.fcc.gov/news-events/blog/2019/06/05/beating-back-unwanted-robocalls
2 – https://robocallindex.com/history/timeFramework for Trust  
On Dec. 30, 2019, the TRACED Act was signed into law. It 
establishes the STIR/SHAKEN Framework as a trust mechanism 
exchanged between VoIP interconnected carriers. STIR/
SHAKEN permits carriers that exchange traffic via VoIP to 
assign a confidence level to the caller’s identity.
That trust level, or Attestation A to C, has three alphabetical 
scores that start at A, to indicate absolute confidence in the 
caller’s identity, to C, to indicate that the original caller is 
unknown.
Windstream began evaluating solutions and network 
requirements even before the bill was signed into law and 
participated in the industry working group that developed the 
STIR/SHAKEN standard. Windstream fully implemented STIR/
SHAKEN across the IP portions of its network in 2021, offering 
consumers further information and tools to stop unwanted 
calls.
Elective Call Prevention  
Windstream expects to provide our customers with the ability 
to opt in and opt out of an analytics-based blocking solution in 
2022.
We realize that blocking is not a one-size-fits-all service and 
expect some customers will want to participate while others 
(such as emergency services, public institutions, etc.) either will 
be reluctant or forbidden to selectively block calls.
As a result, we expect a multi-tiered solution to be available 
to our retail customers for elective call blocking, ranging from 
complete blocking of all calling numbers with suspicious call 
behaviors to a customizable blocking solution tailored to each 
customer’s needs.
Windstream is committed to blocking unwanted and illegal 
robocalls, robotexts, and spoofing in order to prevent 
unwanted and illegal robocalls. As we move into 2022, 
Windstream is fully prepared and equipped to further protect 
our customers and restore their trust in voice calling. SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 19OPEN INTERNET 
Windstream maintains an open Internet for our 
customers and manages our network with one goal: to 
deliver the best possible broadband Internet experience 
to all of our customers. We strive to provide the best 
customer experience for all types of applications. So long 
as traffic on our network is not malicious or harmful, we 
will NOT:
• Block lawful content or traffic on the basis of 
applications, services, users, or classes of applications 
sourced from, or destined to, the public Internet; or
• Throttle lawful content or traffic on the basis of 
applications, services, users, or classes of applications 
sourced from, or destined to, the public Internet.
Managing the network is essential to promoting the use 
and enjoyment of the Internet by all of Windstream’s 
customers. To ensure the best possible customer 
experience, Windstream employs reasonable, tailored 
network management practices that are consistent 
with industry standards. Such practices ensure that all 
customers and application providers have access to a fair 
share of Windstream’s network while not unreasonably 
discriminating in transmitting lawful broadband traffic, 
but do not include affiliated prioritization or paid 
prioritization. 
Just as the Internet continues to change and evolve, so too 
will Windstream’s network management practices adapt 
to address the challenges and threats on the Internet. 
By engaging in reasonable and responsible network 
management, Windstream can deliver the best possible 
broadband Internet experience to all of its customers.
Further information regarding our network practices and 
performance, device attachment rules, and commercial 
terms is available at: https://www.windstream.com/about/
legal/broadband-network-statement.Windstream recognizes that protecting data privacy is 
fundamental to maintaining the trust of our customers and 
growing our business. Respecting consumers’ privacy is not only a 
smart strategy for inspiring trust in us, it represents aspects of our 
core values. As such, Windstream constantly monitors emerging 
federal, state, and even international laws that relate to the way 
we handle data privacy and protect our customer’s identities, and 
we update our processes and procedures as needed. We have 
established and continue to develop strong privacy protection 
measures to secure our customers’ and employees’ private 
information. The scope of Windstream’s data protection policies 
includes all lines of business and subsidiaries.
For instance, Windstream has adopted policies and procedures 
governing how we collect, use, retain, share, and protect data. 
Such information is contained in Windstream’s Privacy Policy 
located on Windstream’s main customer-facing website. Our 
compliance with privacy protection is conducted under the 
oversight of our chief information security officer, who reviews 
and discusses data privacy risks and mitigating actions with 
the Audit Committee of our Board of Managers on a regular 
basis. Windstream also has established a Privacy Committee 
with representatives from across the entire company to ensure 
we maintain the highest levels of data protection. Our policies 
and procedures are subject to controls such as internal audits, 
observations, testing, employee and vendor training, and internal 
attestations that all serve to promote ongoing compliance 
throughout the business. To meet our ethical and legal commitments to 
protect personal data, Windstream has developed 
and continues to develop information security 
requirements for its employees and suppliers who 
handle customer data, according to federal, state, 
and international standards. 
To ensure we secure customers’ data, Windstream 
has technical, administrative, and physical 
safeguards in place to limit information security risks 
and cyber threats. Windstream’s chief information 
security officer (CISO) is responsible for leading, 
and as appropriate, coordinating, enterprise-wide 
information security strategy, policy, standards, 
architecture, and processes. Windstream’s CISO 
regularly coordinates with other stakeholders 
throughout the company to ensure Windstream’s 
safeguards are active and working. 
Over 2021, Windstream undertook audits to 
ensure it remained compliant with its obligations 
under the General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR), California Privacy Rights Act (CCPA), and 
other U.S. States and nations in which Windstream 
does business that enacted privacy legislation. 
Windstream also implemented new controls to 
ensure applicable consumers and data subjects 
are able to correct and have erased their protected 
information. Windstream does not rent, sell, or 
provide personal data to third parties for purposes 
other than completing transactions. Windstream 
also provides information to consumers upon 
their request and protects its customers private 
information as required by law. 
Windstream is committed to ensuring and 
maintaining the privacy of its customers. Through 
these measures, it has established the requisite 
tools, policies, and procedures to meet this standard.SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 20Windstream Protects Personal Data 
Windstream endeavors to protect and maintain 
control over customers’ data at every contact 
point.
Collection/Use: We collect and use information 
according to our publicly available Privacy Policy 
and, in the case of business customers, according 
to our contracts. Our policies and practices are 
designed to limit data collection, protect and 
respect consumers’ privacy and the choices 
consumers make concerning the use of their data. 
Windstream does not collect personal data from 
third-parties.
Disclosure: In general, we share information 
within Windstream and with vendors and partners 
as described in our privacy policies and according 
to our customers’ consent. We take measures in 
our contracts with third-party vendors to protect 
information we disclose. We permit vendors to 
use this data only for the purpose for which we 
provide it. 
Data Retention: We maintain corporate policies 
governing data retention and review our 
practices at least annually as part of our continual 
assessment of privacy requirements. Under 
our practices and policies, we retain personally 
identifiable and other sensitive records only 
as long as reasonably necessary for business, 
accounting, tax or legal purposes, and are 
committed to deleting data within a specified time 
period, commensurate with the relevant data 
retention policy pertaining to the specific type of 
data in question.PRIVACY AND DATA PROTECTIONIdentifying data security risks and managing vulnerabilities
 
Windstream operates in a highly competitive, increasingly complex and ever-
changing business environment. Our data breach and incident response plan include 
both proactive and reactive measures. To safeguard our systems and information, 
we continually upgrade security governance and protocols to reflect changes in 
technology, potential risks and business needs. To that end, Windstream has a 
comprehensive Security Vulnerability Patch Management program. Access control and 
encryption/deidentification techniques are in place. The program is designed to reduce 
attack surfaces by proactive application of vendor security updates as well as the 
detection and management of vulnerabilities within Windstream through the following 
methods:
• Framework. Our Security Vulnerability Patch Management policy outlines the 
patching approach, remediation schedule and SLA and personnel responsibilities 
necessary to sustain a healthy and well-balanced program.
• Risk identification. We continually assess the threat and vulnerability landscape 
using various commercial, vendor, government, and publicly available information 
sources.
• Risk detection. We use Static Application Security Testing (SAST), Dynamic 
Application Security Testing (DAST), on a scheduled and real-time basis to identify 
vulnerabilities within our network infrastructure. Additionally, Approved Scanning 
Vendor are used to conduct external vulnerability scanning services to validate 
adherence with the external scanning requirements of PCI DSS Requirement 11.2.2.
• Risk evaluation. Identified vulnerabilities are assigned a severity classification 
based on their evaluated risk using an industry standard scoring model. 
Vulnerabilities are then reported to the appropriate asset owners and custodians 
for remediation. If remediation is not feasible within the policy timeframe, a plan of 
action and milestone is developed and tracked. In rare circumstances, an exception 
may be approved, which is tracked in a central system of record as mitigating or 
compensating controls are considered and deployed.
• Metrics and reporting. We collect and retain data for reporting purposes and to 
enhance management accountability for remediation of vulnerable assets. We also 
use the data to assess threat trends and for strategic planning of ongoing program 
improvements.
CYBERSECURITY  
Windstream takes protecting the security of our systems and networks very seriously. 
As such, the company’s executive body responsible for Privacy and Data security is a 
Board-level committee. To more effectively address the cybersecurity threats posed 
today, Windstream also has a dedicated chief information security officer (CISO) 
whose team is responsible for leading enterprise information security strategy, policy, 
standards, architecture, and processes. The primary goal of the information security 
program is to adequately protect the data collected, generated, created, stored, 
managed and transmitted or otherwise handled by Windstream so as to best serve the 
interests of shareholders, customers, employees and other constituents. Windstream’s 
comprehensive information security program includes, among other aspects, risk 
management, vulnerability management, antivirus and malware protection, file 
integrity monitoring, encryption, access control, data loss prevention and threat 
detection and response. The CISO leads the review and discussion of Windstream’s 
cyber risks, threats, and protections with the Audit Committee of the Board of 
Managers quarterly and throughout the year, as warranted.
Windstream’s information security policies and systems are independently audited by 
an external third-party no less frequently than once every two years.SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 21SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 22HUMAN CAPITAL GUIDING PRINCIPLES
Windstream aims to create and foster a workforce that reflects and contributes 
to the diverse communities in which we do business. Their passion, purpose and 
diversity are essential in our ability to deliver world class technology solutions. 
Each of our employees offers a unique set of ideas, beliefs and skills shaped 
by their heritage, background and culture. We consider this diversity to be an 
important resource and we strive to foster an environment where employees feel 
included, respected and comfortable bringing their whole and authentic self to 
work. Windstream was selected as a “Top Most Loved Workplace” by Newsweek 
because of our commitment to establishing a supportive, innovative and creative 
culture that empowers employees to meet customers’ critical communications 
needs in the midst of a rapid digital revolution.
OUR WORKFORCE BY THE NUMBERSGender
US employee profile by gender
Percentage of workforce (Male) 71.8% 69.7% 69.1%
Percentage of workforce (Female) 28.2% 30.1% 30.9%
International employee profile by gender
Percentage of workforce (Male) 85.3% 85.3% 83.3%
Percentage of workforce (Female) 14.7% 14.71% 16.7%
Gender worldwide
Percentage of workforce (Male) 71.9% 69.9% 69.1%
Percentage of workforce (Female) 28.1% 30.1% 30.9%
Diversity in Senior Leadership
Percentage of non-caucasian in total US management 
(VP and above)11.3% 9.5% 6.8%
Percentage of women in US management (VP and 
above)16.9% 19.1% 17.1%
Percentage of non-caucasian in total US senior 
management  (SVP and above)2.9% 7.1% 3.3%
Percentage of women in US senior management (SVP 
and above)17.1% 14.3% 10.0%
Veterans
Number of veterans 1,314 1,255 1,432
Number of veteran spouses 121 126 130
Affiliated employees (% of US workforce) 13.0% 13.0% 14.1%
Outsourced, Temporary and Contract Employees
Average # of Outsourced FTEs Supporting Our Business 1,893 1,956 2,222
Average # of Contractors and Temporary Employees 43 61 174Ethnicity 2021 2020 2019
Race/Ethnicity
Asian (% of US workforce) 1.7% 1.8% 1.8%
Black/African American (% of US workforce) 8.7% 8.9% 9.3%
Hispanic/Latino (% of US workforce) 4.6% 4.0% 3.9%
American Indian/Alaska Native (% of US workforce) 0.7% 0.7% 0.7%
Two or More Races (% of US workforce) 1.3% 1.2% 1.2%
Not Specified/Applicable (% of US workforce) 0.5% 0.3% 0.2%
Native Hawaiian/Oth Pac Island (% of US workforce) 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
White (% of US workforce) 82.2% 82.8% 82.6%
Diversity
Caucasian  (% of US workforce) 82.2% 82.8% 82.6%
Non-Caucasian  (% of US workforce) 17.8% 17.2% 17.4%
Workforce
US Employees (% of total workforce) 99.7% 99.7% 99.7%
International employees (% of total workforce) 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%COMMITTED TO RESPECTFUL WORKPLACE 
Windstream is committed to a workplace free from unlawful discrimination 
and harassment and does not tolerate discriminatory or harassing behavior 
of any kind. Our robust Harassment Prevention and Non-Discrimination in the 
Workplace Policy applies to any conduct that has the purpose or effect of creating 
an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment. Employees who believe 
they have been the subject of, or are aware of, discrimination, harassment 
or retaliation can report this in a number of ways—to their supervisor, to 
their assigned human resources business partner or other member of the HR 
department or to the Windstream ethics helpline via telephone or online. All 
complaints are handled in a prompt, confidential manner, and information is only 
shared on a need-to-know basis. All complaints are investigated, and any acts 
of discrimination, harassment or retaliation are addressed and remedied with 
appropriate corrective action, up to and including termination of employment. 
In addition, Windstream prohibits any form of retaliation against employees who 
make complaints and committing an act of retaliation alone is prohibited and can 
be cause for appropriate corrective action, including termination of employment. 
Further, Windstream expects its suppliers to treat all employees with respect 
and dignity, to respect internationally proclaimed human rights and avoid being 
complicit in human rights abuses of any kind, and to adhere to all standards 
drawn by the International Labor Organization (ILO).
All Windstream employees are required to participate in annual harassment 
prevention training intended to reinforce the company’s commitment to a 
diverse, inclusive, and respectful work environment free from discrimination 
and harassment. Furthermore, all employees at Windstream are encouraged 
to participate in unconscious bias and diversity training to further foster a work 
environment of fairness, awareness, and sensitivity. 
Windstream respects our employees’ rights to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining in compliance with applicable law, including the right to join 
or not join worker organizations (labor unions). 
Windstream also conducts employee engagement surveys to all employees 
to gauge satisfaction and engagement across the company. Anonymized, 
aggregated results are shared by department and for Windstream, as a whole.SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 23EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
Like most large companies, Windstream utilizes a third-party research firm to conduct 
an annual Employee Engagement Survey to measure both Employee Engagement 
and Manager Effectiveness.  Higher scores have been correlated to better company 
performance and higher employee retention for companies across all industries. 
Individual responses are confidential and only visible to the third-party conducting the 
survey.  Using the aggregated data Windstream receives, we are able to see trends and 
identify areas of strength as well as areas for improvement.  This annual survey informs 
our actions, which includes a “Connect the Dots” communications campaign to help our 
teammates better understand how their role and efforts contribute to our mission and 
strategies.
Based on the data provided in this annual survey and the actions we have taken as a 
result, Windstream has seen a steady improvement in our Employee Engagement and 
Manager Effectiveness scores following our emergence for a financial restructuring effort 
in 2019, and we are now at or above the benchmarks for our industry on both metrics.
We believe our continued focus on Employee Engagement and Manager Effectiveness 
have allowed Windstream to achieve turnover rates that are substantially below 
benchmarks for our industry.
Turnover Trends
Benchmark Source: Bureau of Labor and Statistics (BLS)SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 24Category 2019 2020 2021 Benchmark
Voluntary 12% 10% 15% 22%
Involuntary 1% 2% 2% 4%
Total Turnover 13% 12% 17% 26%Employees can take advantage of the following ongoing 
Wellness Programs:
Tobacco Cessation  
The Magellan tobacco cessation program offers app and coaching based tobacco 
cessation support. Tobacco cessation supplements are also included in the 
medical plan. 
Windstream’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP)  
Windstream offers an Employee Assistance Program through Magellan. From 
online information to confidential consultations with licensed behavioral health 
professionals, employees and their families have access to a wealth of practical, 
solution-focused resources to help them reduce stress, strengthen relationships, 
increase productivity and improve quality of life.
Progyny  
Progyny specializes in offering families a variety of options for infertility 
treatment – with proven success. With over 450 clinics, Progyny offers a wide 
network of specialists.
Livongo  
Livongo offers assistance for members seeking support for diabetes, 
hypertension and weight management. These programs are available at no cost 
to medically enrolled employees and spouses who meet clinical requirements. 
Participants receive the Latest Technology to Simplify Living with Diabetes 
including the Livongo connected glucometer blood pressure cuff, and scale which 
automatically upload readings, making logbooks and sync cables a thing of the 
past. Livongo enrollees also receive real-time support from coaches that includes 
personalized support provided from the Livongo mobile app, secure website, and 
certified diabetes educators. Participants also benefit from unlimited test strips 
at no cost that are shipped directly to the employee’s home with the click of a 
button.
Included Health  
Windstream’s medical plan offers Included Health to assist participants with 
identifying high-quality providers and facilities, claims support, pre-admission 
and post-discharge support, expert second opinions, online ID cards, and clinical 
expertise for planned and unplanned healthcare journeys.
EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 
Gender Pay Equality  
Windstream believes strongly in gender pay equality. We regularly monitor and 
report on potential compensation inequities to senior leadership and people 
managers as part of a formal initiative to take action and assist in closing gaps. This 
initiative is overseen by our Chief Human Resource Officer.
Health & Wellness  
In addition to providing a comprehensive benefits package to employees that 
includes medical, dental, vision, health savings and flexible spending accounts, life 
insurance, disability benefits, parental leave benefits, and a 401(k) retirement plan 
with company matching contributions, Windstream supports the overall health and 
well-being of our employees with a full menu of activities and resources to assist 
them with maintaining and improving their overall health. 
Windstream employees receive up to seven paid company holidays, five optional 
holidays that may be taken to celebrate ethnic, cultural, religious or other significant 
observances; an additional one-time optional holiday is awarded with the employee’s 
first year service anniversary and with each five year service milestone thereafter; 
depending on years of service from two to five weeks of paid vacation time; up 
to five days of paid bereavement time; and a comprehensive sick pay program 
of up to seven paid days that covers absences for one’s own needs or the needs 
of a family member, and includes one employee wellness day and even a day for 
pet bereavement. Benefits vary for our unionized employees as set forth in their 
collective bargaining agreements.SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 25SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 26Connecting people in a world of infinite possibilities. At 
Windstream, we celebrate the authenticity and uniqueness 
of our people and their ideas. The diverse voices of our 
employees fuel our innovation and the inclusive, equitable 
culture we are building fosters belonging and empowers 
each one of us to create amazing customer experiences.
Windstream is committed to promoting and encouraging 
diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging for our employees 
by valuing the range of perspectives, ideas and experiences 
that diversity provides, regardless of peoples’ gender, age, 
language, disability, ethnicity, cultural background, sexual 
orientation, religious belief, education, work experience, 
occupation, socio-economic background, and marital status.
Our D&I Vision  
Windstream aims to create and foster a workforce that 
reflects and contributes to the diverse communities in 
which we do business. 
Our employees and culture make the difference for our 
customers, our communities, and for our workplaces. Each 
of our employees offers a unique set of ideas, beliefs and 
skills shaped by their heritage, background and culture. We 
consider this diversity to be an important resource, and 
we strive to foster an environment where employees feel 
included, respected and comfortable bringing their whole 
and authentic self to work.Windstream’s Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Council is 
led by President and CEO Tony Thomas and our senior 
leadership team. The goal of the Strategic Council is 
to prioritize the company’s diversity, equity, inclusion 
and belonging efforts, raise awareness throughout the 
organization and educate leaders and employees on 
its importance. Windstream’s Diversity and Inclusion 
Operational Committee fulfills the goals and practices set 
forth by the Strategic Council. The committee consists of a 
diverse group of 35 employees who possess a wide range of 
industry and leadership experience. 
We made great progress in our efforts to increase our 
companywide focus on diversity and inclusion in 2021. 
Several highlights include: 
• High Employee Engagement Survey results on three new 
D&I questions 
• Receiving the lowest ESG Risk Rating among U.S.-based 
Telecommunication providers 
• Being selected as one of America’s Most Loved 
Companies by Newsweek 
• Receiving numerous industry awards and accolades 
including a Top Ten Military Friendly Company and Best 
of the Best for African Americans, Professional Women, 
Hispanics, DiverseAbility and LGBTQ+
• Hosting numerous Employee Resource Groups events 
• Sharing various blogs highlighting the richness of our 
backgrounds 
 The Operational Committee diligently works to reach the 
goals set forth by the Strategic Council. The Committee’s 
priorities for 2021 included providing leaders with a D&I 
Toolkit, linking employee-led Culture Crew Events with D&I 
awareness, the creation of three new courses focused on 
inclusivity, a dedicated internal D&I webpage for leaders, 
and mentorship and community service programs for our 
ERGs. This year we will build upon the solid foundation we 
have established by expanding our D&I framework to  
include Equity and Belonging. These activities are reported 
quarterly to the ESG Committee. Our current priorities 
include: 
• Increasing employee engagement through increased 
focus and action surrounding collaboration, equity and 
belonging
• Expanding the reach of our ERGs through mentorship 
and community engagement opportunities, while adding 
a Hispanic ERG
• Implementing additional recruiting and retention 
strategies to strengthen and showcase our commitment 
to diversity
• Expanding and promoting professional development 
opportunities to amplify and empower the diverse voices 
of our workforce
We’re proud to receive multiple recognitions for our D&I 
program and initiatives such as a Top Employer of Women, 
African Americans, Hispanics, Veterans, Disabilities and Top 
LGBTQ+ Employer. See the Full List of Awards. 
Learn more about our culture and diversity here:  
Culture & Diversity Windstream aims to create and foster a workforce that reflects and contributes 
to the diverse communities in which we do business. Windstream’s Statement on Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) 
SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 27At Windstream, we understand the 
important role we play in society. We 
support the communities we serve 
through nonprofit organizations and 
partner with them to enhance lives 
and build stronger and more vibrant 
communities. We support numerous 
charitable causes, including hunger relief, 
domestic violence awareness, breast 
cancer research and STEAM (science, 
technology, engineering, arts and 
mathematics) initiatives. 
Additionally, employees from varying 
organizations across the company 
volunteered in our Culture Crews to lead 
activities and events that demonstrate 
and celebrate our cultural values. These 
crews coordinated employee events and 
hosted charitable fundraisers across our 
employee base. HUMAN PROSPERITY (PHILANTHROPY) 
The Black Business Support Fund has awarded $250,000 in 
grants to small businesses across several states. In 2021, Kinetic 
Business expanded the program to include customers in any 
Georgia, Pennsylvania, New York and Ohio market Kinetic 
serves, along with previously eligible businesses in the Charlotte, 
North Carolina, area and in Lexington, Kentucky. Launched in 
November 2020, the fund seeks to increase the number and 
stability of Black-owned businesses in its service footprint.
“We were able to offer meaningful help to several small 
businesses in the Charlotte area and in Lexington in 2020,” 
said Lorenzo Clark, vice president of inside sales for Kinetic 
and president of the Windstream Black Professional Network 
Committee. “The time was right to expand to more communities 
in 2021 to keep the momentum going.”
Each selected small-business grant recipient received between 
$2,500 - $5,000 in cash and a year of free internet for their 
business. The selected businesses also got a free consultation from Kinetic Business on processes and products that could 
improve efficiencies and make their business more profitable.
One fund winner, Mickeayla Clark-Brockington, who operates 
BOSS Office, a Douglas, Georgia, retail business that 
provides payroll service, tax preparation service and financial 
management consulting to clients, says that winning the prize 
package from Kinetic meant the difference between keeping her 
store open or closing it down.
“I don’t know how my own small business would have survived 
without this grant, especially during the pandemic,” she said. 
“Honestly, right off the bat, it paid the rent and utilities. Also, you 
have to understand that my customers, who are mostly people 
of color, include hair stylists, restaurant workers, truckers and 
others who either don’t know how to use the computer or don’t 
have access to one. Thanks to Kinetic, I could keep my internet 
on, and that way, continue to give these business owners the 
digital presence they need to help their own businesses thrive.”Kinetic by Windstream partners with St. Jude Children’s 
Research Hospital
For the second year, Kinetic by Windstream donated $100,000 to St. Jude 
Children’s Research Hospital. During November and December, for every new 
residential customer activation, Kinetic donated $5, up to $75,000, to benefit 
St. Jude as part of the Kinetic 4 Kids program. Additionally, in recognition of 
business customers who contribute generously to their communities, especially 
during the holiday season, Kinetic Business donated another $25,000 to St. Jude. 
“We talk a lot about how customers can count on Kinetic for fast, reliable 
internet,” said Jeff Small, president of Kinetic. “Communities across our 18-state 
footprint can also count on us for local support for what’s important to them. 
Supporting St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital is important to our employees 
and customers, and we are humbled to be able to help St. Jude kids and their 
families through our Kinetic 4 Kids program.”
Kinetic Business by Windstream Expands Black Business Support FundKinetic by Windstream and A Million 
Thanks Partner to Celebrate Military 
Appreciation Month
During May 2021, Kinetic by Windstream 
partnered to celebrate Military Appreciation 
Month with A Million Thanks, a nonprofit that 
provides support and appreciation to active 
and veteran military men and women through 
sending personal letters of gratitude.
“Since 2004, we’ve collected and mailed nearly 
11 million letters to members of our armed 
forces,” said Shauna Fleming, founder and CEO 
of A Million Thanks. “The response from these 
men and women is pretty emotional. It provides 
a morale boost, not just to one service member, 
but often to the entire unit. A handwritten letter 
is a simple, but powerful gesture that anyone 
can do to express their appreciation.”
Every Kinetic retail store served as a collection 
site for anyone to drop off thank-you notes for active-duty service members. Kinetic also 
held community events throughout its 18-state 
footprint during the month of May to collect 
handwritten thank-you notes. A Million Thanks 
distributed the letters to service members.
More than one thousand letters were sent to 
military men and women through the month-
long campaign. Additionally, Kinetic donated to 
the Million Thanks Scholarship program that 
benefits the children of fallen military service 
members.
“Every American owes a debt of gratitude to 
those who have died in service to our country,” 
said Trey Thomas, president of Windstream’s 
veteran employee resource group. “Providing 
some assistance to the children of these men 
and women, who are pursuing higher education, 
is important to us as veterans who are 
employed here and also as a company to show 
our support.”SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 28KEY PARTNERS 
Diversity Partnerships  
Windstream sponsors multiple diversity-focused organizations to build our 
employer brand and recruit diverse talent. These conferences and partnerships 
include:
Paralyzed Veterans of America  
Windstream helped sponsor the 2021 National Veterans Wheelchair Games that 
took place August 7-14 in New York City. The Wheelchair Games are open to all 
U.S. veterans with spinal cord injuries, amputations, multiple sclerosis, or other 
central neurological conditions who require a wheelchair for athletic competition. 
Every year, hundreds of American heroes from World War II, the Korean War, the 
Vietnam War, the Gulf War, and the post-9/11 era compete in this celebration of 
courage and camaraderie. Windstream sponsored the boccia ball tournament, and 
company representatives participated in the medal ceremony.
Women’s Foundation of Arkansas  
Windstream is supporting the Tjuana Byrd Summer Internship Program in 2022. 
This is a 10-week summer internship program for women of color attending 
college in Arkansas and pursuing degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering, 
& Mathematics (finance and related majors included). The internship will pay 
an hourly wage, provide free housing for the duration of the program, access to 
mentorship and networking events, and professional development workshops. 
Company executives have also agreed to participate in diversity, equity and 
inclusion training provided by the WFA prior to the program. This internship 
program is intentionally designed to increase access to and representation in these 
fields for women of color in Arkansas by eliminating barriers of cost, social capital, 
and location.
onePULSE Foundation  
Windstream partnered with the onePulse Foundation in Orlando, Florida, in 
observance of the fifth anniversary of the nightclub shooting by hosting a “Where 
are they now?” speaker series. The series focused on the survivors and board 
members reflection since the attack on the club and how the foundation gives back 
to the community. Windstream was proud to sponsor the foundation’s efforts with 
their memorial and museum, One Pulse Academy, Family Days, and community 
events with a $10,000 donation. The onePULSE Foundation was established to 
create a sanctuary of hope for the LGBTQ+ community following that tragic day 
in American history—June 12, 2016—to honor the 49 Angels that were taken, the 
68 others who were injured and the countless first responders and healthcare 
professionals who treated them.SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 29VETERANS 
At Windstream, we believe the values and beliefs instilled in 
military personnel shape them into the types of people we 
want to hire, and we take our commitment to their futures 
seriously. That’s why we’re committed to hiring Veterans and 
their spouses. We want proven leaders like them, who have 
a diverse skill set and are ready to make a difference in our 
workforce. In 2021, we hired 283 Veterans and 15 military 
spouses, up from 173 and 10, respectively, in 2020. 
We’re proud to have more than 1,314 Veterans and 121 
military spouses representing 13% of our entire workforce 
serving our customers. Our military leave policy allows our 
service members to continue serving their country when 
needed. When service members are called up to active duty, 
we bridge the gap between military pay and their current 
pay to care for their family members and their financial 
and healthcare needs, subject to the terms of collective 
bargaining agreements which helps us to maintain a 90% 
retention rate. We’re proud to have received recognition 
for our work with Veterans and spouses from various 
organizations such as Military Friendly™ Top Ten Company 
#10, Military Friendly™ Top Ten Spouse Employer #7, and a 
Vets Index 5-Star Employer. See full list of awards.
In 2021, our Windstream Veterans 
Employee Resource Group facilitated 
a wreath laying at the Tomb of 
the Unknown Soldier in Arlington, 
Virginia, which was attended by 
our CEO, members of Windstream’s 
senior leadership team, and other 
team members from surrounding 
states and the District of Columbia.
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE 
GROUPS 
Diversity is vital for Windstream’s ability to grow and 
innovate in a fast-changing environment. 
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are an integral 
component of Windstream’s commitment to help us 
drive change in diversity and inclusion allowing us 
to capitalize on the extraordinary resources of our 
employees. 
ERGs promote diversity and inclusion, as well as 
employees’ professional development. We celebrate 
the authenticity and uniqueness of our people and 
their ideas. 
We want to have the best team possible and to 
remove barriers and establish an inclusive culture 
so every employee can realize their full potential 
and bring their whole and authentic selves to work.
We have five ERGs, each with its own mission. All 
work together toward four common objectives: 
• Support and Encourage Development Within  
Each Other
• Engagement and Inclusion 
• Advance the Company’s Business Goals
• Ambassadors for the Company’s Diversity & 
Inclusion Initiatives 
Learn more about our ERGs here: Windstream ERGsSOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 30WINDSTREAM VETERAN EMPLOYEE
RESOURCE GROUPWINVETSWINVETSWindstream Veteran Employee Resource Group (WINVets)    
Mission: Windstream’s Veteran Employee Resource Group program is designed to support 
Windstream’s initiative regarding outreach, recruitment, and retention efforts in the military and 
veteran communities. Our mission is to be the pillar for our veterans, military spouses and active Guard 
& Reserve members by providing networking opportunities, empowering information, and career 
development that equips each individual to excel in their new career paths. 
WINDSTREAM BLACK
PROFESSIONALS NETWORKWBPNWBPNWindstream Black Professionals Network (WBPN)
Mission: We are committed to providing a supportive environment for all African-American/Black 
employees that promotes opportunities for personal and professional development while also 
enhancing cultural awareness and inclusion across our organization. WBPN inspires and supports 
Windstream’s efforts regarding outreach, recruiting and retention in the African American Community.WOMEN OF WINDSTREAMWOWWOW
Women of Windstream (WOW)
Mission: To connect and empower women by creating an inclusive environment for forming 
supportive relationships and realizing career enhancing experiences. Windstream’s Women of 
Windstream (WOW) program is designed to recruit, retain, promote, develop and to support 
Windstream’s women both professionally and personally.
Windstream Ability Resource Group (WARG)
Mission: To foster an environment of inclusion and a culture that welcomes people of all abilities 
while continually seeking opportunities to better serve our employees with disabilities. The WARG 
promotes equity for employees with disabilities in all aspects of recruiting, onboarding, and retention 
in accordance with Windstream’s diversity and inclusion efforts. We strive to be an Employer of Choice 
for people with disabilities.PRIDEPRIDE
WINDSTREAM LGBTQ+ EMPLOYEE 
RESOURCE GROUP
WIN Pride      
Mission: The Windstream Pride employee resource group seeks to increase LGBTQ+ cultural 
awareness to foster an environment of inclusion for all Windstream Employees. The ERG provides a 
venue for networking, socialization, professional development, and discussion of LGBTQ+ issues and 
concerns. WIN Pride encourages and assists Windstream in its efforts to achieve greater market share 
among the LGBTQ+ community.Learning and Development  
The workforce continues to evolve including not just what 
we do, but where we work and how we grow as employees. 
As such our focus at Windstream is to ensure that how 
we hire, onboard, reskill, and upskill our employees is 
also continually evolving and capable of supporting our 
employees as they grow with us.  
Our workforce consists of all five generational groupings 
and as our hiring is shifting towards Generation Z, it’s 
imperative that we support a variety of learning styles and 
delivery methods.  
Windstream’s overarching Learning and Development 
philosophy is aligned into three pillars and everything we 
do is centered around these pillars: 
• Unified Search – Connecting multiple technologies and 
platforms together so one search yields results from 
across the ecosystem 
• Microlearning – Ensuring that the learning content is 
narrowly focused and easy to consume 
• Multichannel Delivery – Making the content available 
wherever our employers are and on whatever device 
they’re using Learning Culture  
Our learning culture is focused on providing meaningful 
learning content that addresses the skills our employees 
need to best fulfill their current role and any future roles 
that they seek. 
• In 2021, we invested more than $3 million in learning and 
development initiatives for our employees 
• Our employees completed more than 850,000 hours 
of training and had access to more than 5,600 learning 
opportunities including over 500 microlearning videos 
that address very specific skill needs 
• The average number of hours completed per employee 
is greater than 70CAREER PROGRESSION  
Windstream is heavily focused on helping our employees 
understand potential career progression, the required skills 
for career progression, and their ability to locate learning 
content to help them advance their skills and careers. 
We want to be certain our employees see a clear path to 
future careers at Windstream. To that end, Windstream has 
developed an internal application called Skill Finder™.
SkillFinder™ is a tool that allows our employees to search a 
unified job description data base, identify next step career 
pathing including possible positions, the skills required for 
those positions, and available training for those skills. It 
also allows employees the ability to search positions based 
on the skills they already have and a connection to our Job 
application system to check current openings and apply if 
interested. This provides a one-stop destination to help our 
employees see and prepare for their future at Windstream 
and beyond. SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 31Everything we do 
is aligned with 
these pillars. 
Microlearning
Bite-sized nuggets, narrowly  
focused, part of larger curriculumsUnified Search
Using connected technology to help  
you find what you need  Multichannel
Making this content available wherever  
you are and whatever device you’re usingLEARNING AND DEVELOPMENTSOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 32
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT  
We know that our long-term success lies in 
our ability to identify future leaders and to 
provide tools to support their development. Our 
Leadership Development Program (WLDP) is a 
comprehensive, multidisciplinary development 
approach designed to identify high-caliber 
employees and prepare them for the next stage 
in their careers. 
WLDP uses assessments, web-based learning, 
skill-building sessions, virtual classrooms, 
simulations, and interactive labs to help equip 
promising leaders for greater responsibility. The 
program culminates with a team project focused 
on developing real solutions to Windstream 
issues and presenting that solution to the 
company’s senior leadership Team. SAFETY  
Occupational Health and Safety  
Windstream provides a safe, healthy, and alcohol/drug-free workplace for employees and visitors across 
all of its facilities. We are committed to complying with all applicable environmental laws and safety 
regulations. Accordingly, employees are (i) frequently trained to identify and immediately report unsafe or 
hazardous conditions or suspected violations of the law, and (ii) expected to follow all applicable safety, 
health, and environmental laws, as well as Windstream’s internal policies and practices. When incidents do 
occur, Windstream evaluates the incident and performs a root cause analysis as necessary to determine 
if enhancements to our safety policies and practices or training would be beneficial and impactful to 
maintaining a safe workplace.
Environmental, Health and Safety (EH&S) Committees in our local offices play an important role in keeping 
our workplace safe. These committees afford employees and management the opportunity to provide 
feedback on any safety related concerns and weigh in on potential resolutions before any accidents or 
injuries occur. Each committee selects a safety representative who meets quarterly with the Corporate EH&S 
team to provide updates on safety awareness, training initiatives, equipment needs and any local accidents or 
injuries.
Additionally, local facility personnel participate in the development and implementation of their own sites’ 
specific emergency procedures based on guidelines from the corporate Emergency Action Plan (EAP). Facility 
managers and employees adopt steps to ensure safe evacuation of employees and visitors in the event of 
actual emergencies. Responsible parties are identified, based on facility needs, and periodic evacuation drills 
are held to ensure understanding of individual roles and compliance with conforming standards.
Our commitment and reputation to safety standards is appreciated by our vendors. Windstream is often 
trusted by vendors to test new or modified equipment in the field and provide feedback. The vendors use 
that feedback to further develop or modify their products and safety standards. 
For 2021, our occupational injuries and illnesses rate was 1.9 per 100 employees, which is lower than the 
latest published Bureau of Labor Statistics telecommunications industry average of 2.1, further evidencing 
Windstream’s unyielding commitment to maintaining a safe workplace for our employees. 
Safety Training and Awareness  
Windstream’s EH&S and Risk Management teams continually provide guidance on the company’s safety 
policies and procedures. Our overarching goal is to continuously improve and implement change that will 
result in an enhanced safety environment for our employees and minimize incidents. To achieve our goal, 
we provide effective safety training courses to ensure employees understand how to perform their functions 
in a safe manner and to proactively prevent accidents. Windstream employees receive safety training in 
approximately 70 different areas of importance annually. Windstream is fully committed to our employee’s 
safety, and we expect our employees to share in this commitment.Our Leadership Development 
Program (WLDP) is a comprehensive, 
multidisciplinary development 
approach designed to identify high-
caliber employees and prepare them 
for the next stage in their careers.
We have a long history of working with the 
Communications Workers of America and the International 
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. We meet with union 
leaders to talk about key issues, including safety, customer 
service, operational processes, our business performance 
and the impacts that changing technology and competition 
are having on our customers, our employees and the 
company. 
In keeping with Windstream’s commitment to provide 
high-quality service and good jobs, our collective bargaining 
agreements continue to provide our team members with 
competitive wages and valuable benefits.Windstream engages a global supply base of over 4,000 
vendors to purchase more than $2.9 billion in goods and 
services annually, which include items such as consumer 
modems, network equipment, construction services, and 
utilities. We remain committed to responsible sourcing, 
and it is the policy of Windstream to conduct business in 
a manner that is ethical and promotes the best interests 
of its customers, employees, and investors. Windstream 
expects suppliers to be ethical and honest, obey all 
applicable health, safety and environmental laws, and 
protect confidential and proprietary information. 
We rely on our strategic sourcing process, and the Supplier 
Code of Ethics (“Code”) to enforce our commitment to 
responsible sourcing. The Code is intended to assist 
suppliers in meeting Windstream’s expectations.
Among other guidelines and requirements, our code:
• Forbids the use of child labor, forced labor and 
discrimination
• Addresses our expectations around health and safety, 
minimum living wages, maximum working hours, and 
acceptable living conditions
• Protects employees’ rights to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining, as permitted by local laws
• Describes how suppliers should work with us on 
compliance and enforcement issues
Windstream reserves the right to review or audit our 
suppliers’ compliance with the code. Our Supply Chain and 
Procurement teams engage with suppliers identified as 
non-compliant with our Code to assist them in reaching 
compliance. Our Code also outlines the formal channels for 
vendors and supply chain workers to raise concerns and 
report potential violations. Our Code is incorporated  
into our legally binding agreements with suppliers and 
outlines our expectations, including compliance with social 
standards. Incumbent and prospective vendor   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
performance regarding social performance is evaluated 
during Windstream’s formal vendor selection process. The 
full Code is available online.
Our chief procurement officer is responsible for overseeing 
and managing Windstream’s supply chain and vendor 
performance. Supply chain and vendor performance 
metrics and KPIs, along with any vendor compliance issues 
or incidents, are monitored and reported monthly to 
senior management. Windstream’s supply chain profile, 
and our core operating and risk mitigation strategies, are 
also reviewed by our Board quarterly as a standing Audit 
Committee agenda item. SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 33LABOR RELATIONS SUPPLY CHAIN 
Windstream strongly believes that our supply base should reflect 
the amazing diversity present in the communities we serve. 
We value diversity and inclusion in our supply chain, just as we 
value and celebrate it in our workforce. Diversity brings new 
perspectives and drives innovation. Actively engaging with a broad 
array of diverse suppliers also fosters economic inclusion and 
promotes positive change.
In 2021, we spent more than $126 million on goods and services 
with diverse suppliers, including businesses owned by people 
of color, women, veterans, disabled veterans, service-disabled 
veterans, LGBTQ, certified small businesses, and people with 
disabilities. This amount represents 7.2% of our $1.7 billion 
of annual addressable spend, which excludes spend with our 
Channel Partners, for Interconnection services, and certain other 
categories that are not sourced (e.g., taxes and government fees).
To maintain the integrity of our program, we rely on an 
independent third party to verify diverse business certifications 
annually.Responsible Minerals Sourcing  
Any connection between the materials used in Windstream’s 
products and armed violence or human rights abuses is 
unacceptable, and we have an internal team that oversees the 
design, development and implementation of our conflict minerals 
compliance program. We also expect our suppliers to take steps 
to ensure that their products do not include materials that either 
directly or indirectly benefit armed groups in the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo (or in any neighboring country). As part of 
their master purchasing agreements with Windstream, suppliers 
agree to provide us with information regarding the country of 
origin and source of conflict minerals used, if any, in the supplier 
goods sold to us. If a supplier is found to be out of compliance 
with these objectives, the supplier is expected to develop, 
implement and document plans to remedy the non-compliance, 
and Windstream has the right to terminate its relationship with 
the supplier in the event of continued non-compliance.
You can access Windstream’s Conflict Minerals Policy here.SOCIAL
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 34
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
In 2021, we spent more 
than $126 million on 
goods and services with 
diverse suppliers, including 
businesses owned by people 
of color, women, veterans, 
disabled veterans, service-
disabled veterans, LGBTQ, 
certified small businesses, 
and people with disabilities. APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 35GOVERNANCE
Holding ourselves accountable
HOW WE GOVERN – 36
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE – 37
CODE OF CONDUCT – 38
HUMAN RIGHTS – 39GOVERNANCE
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 36Company Governance  
Windstream’s 11-member Board oversees the company’s 
strategic planning, operations and business performance, 
as well as the company’s governance practices, with the 
assistance of Board committees. Our Board has extensive 
experience in the telecommunications industry, as well 
as strong operational and financial expertise to ensure 
Windstream’s strategy to provide innovative network and 
software solutions to customers is successful. The Board 
chairman works closely with management to ensure the 
company adheres to the highest standards of corporate 
governance for private companies.
Commitment to Company Culture & Non-Discrimination 
The Board is committed to working in conjunction with 
management to cultivate a corporate culture that promotes 
the goals reflected in the Working with Integrity Guidelines, 
which governs the conduct of all managers, officers, and 
employees of the company. Windstream’s corporate culture 
permeates all aspects of the company’s operations, ensuring 
that its vision, mission and objectives are ethically sound and 
demonstrative of its values. To foster a culture that ensures 
employees understand their responsibilities for appropriate 
behavior, the Board periodically reviews the company’s 
culture initiatives, employee engagement matters, and ethics 
policy to reinforce a corporate culture of integrity.
Further, the Board is committed to a respectful, courteous 
workplace in which employees are able to perform their 
jobs free from harassment, discrimination or retaliation. 
The company does not tolerate sexual or other unlawful 
harassment or discrimination by any employee, volunteer, 
vendor, contractor, consultant, guest, customer or visitor, 
and the Board will expect management to implement and 
update, as appropriate, policies that are consistent with this 
commitment as well as applicable law.ESG Governance  
We believe a strong ESG governance program is an essential 
part of good corporate governance, and for Windstream, ESG 
governance starts at the top. The Board periodically reviews 
reports from management concerning ESG factors, risks, and 
initiatives applicable to, and undertaken by, the company to 
ensure that ESG matters are integrated into the company’s 
operations and appropriately addressed by the company and 
Board. This includes but is not limited to review of this ESG 
Report. 
Additionally, an ESG Committee of the Board was 
established to oversee and monitor Windstream’s significant 
environmental, social and governance and sustainability 
activities and practices, and to provide guidance to 
management regarding the company’s ESG and sustainability 
strategy. The ESG Committee is comprised of five Managers 
and conducts regular quarterly meetings, as well as additional 
meetings as needed, and advises Windstream’s internal ESG 
Operational Committee regarding the company’s ESG-related 
initiatives. Further, in addition to reviewing and overseeing 
compilation of the company’s annual ESG report, the ESG 
Committee provides oversight for all reporting to third 
party ESG rating agencies evaluating the company’s ESG 
performance. 
 HOW WE GOVERN 
We believe a strong ESG governance 
program is an essential part of 
good corporate governance, and for 
Windstream, ESG governance starts at 
the top.
GOVERNANCE
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 37ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE 
Integrity is one of our most valuable assets. Windstream is 
committed to conducting business in a manner that is ethical, 
promotes the best interests of its stakeholders, employees, 
and customers and fully complies with all applicable laws and 
regulations. Windstream expects every employee and member 
of our Board to be ethical and honest, comply with the law, 
and avoid any appearance of impropriety or conflict of interest. 
Understanding, embracing and performing our individual jobs 
in compliance with laws, regulations and our internal policies is 
not only the right thing to do, but it also has a real impact on our 
financial performance and the character of our organization. 
Windstream’s chief compliance officer leads our Ethics and 
Compliance function and reports directly to the Audit Committee 
of the Board, with administrative reporting to the company’s 
chief financial officer. The Audit Committee has risk oversight 
responsibility for ethics and compliance across the company.The chief compliance officer’s charter permits them to 
audit any and all functions and operations across all 
lines of business and subsidiaries. Their independence 
is preserved and ensured by the fact they report directly 
to the Audit Committee Board. The chief compliance 
officer presents an audit plan to the Committee twice 
annually for approval, and all operations are audited no 
less frequently than every three years, with the general 
frequency being annually. Specifically with regard to 
ethical standards, the following compliance audits are 
conducted across all operations:
• Compliance with the general Travel and 
Entertainment policy (quarterly)
• Compliance with the Government Entertainment 
policy (quarterly)
• Compliance with the Commissions policy (quarterly)
• Audit of payroll controls / forensic analysis (annually)
• Audit of employee and vendor Conflict of Interest 
(quarterly)• Annual Conflict of Interest Survey (All Employees)
• Audit of employee and customer referral programs 
(annually)
• Ethics Hotline Investigations and Reporting (quarterly)
In addition, more than 100 members of management 
are included in an Annual Risk Assessment process that 
includes questions regarding potential fraud and abuse, 
and all employees are required to go through an annual 
Conflict of Interest Certification each year where they 
are required to disclose any known conflicts.
GOVERNANCE
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 38CODE OF CONDUCT 
Our Working with Integrity Guidelines (the “Guidelines”) are 
the foundation of our Ethics and Compliance Program and 
provide a road map to assist employees and Board members in 
identifying activities and behaviors that are appropriate when 
conducting business related activities. The Guidelines build 
on our cultural beliefs by outlining expected ethical behaviors 
for our employees, Board members, and other company 
representatives. At all times, Windstream expects employees, 
and employees have an obligation, to uphold and carry out our 
commitment to lawful and ethical business conduct. Annual 
Working with Integrity training is required of all employees to 
reinforce the principals outlined in the Guidelines. Conflict of 
Interest training and reporting is also required for all employees 
annually. This provides employees a forum to report any 
potential conflicts. All conflicts of interest reported or identified 
are evaluated by the Compliance Office for appropriateness and 
corrective active is taken, where applicable.
All Windstream employees (as well as third-party consultants, 
agents, independent contractors, subcontractors, and 
partners) who serve government clients are responsible for 
understanding the legal requirements and restrictions that 
apply to their work and must strictly adhere to the principles 
contained within our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct 
in Governmental Contracting. Additionally, Windstream’s 
Supplier Code of Ethics provides basic guidelines and outlines 
our expectations for our suppliers to operate in an ethical and honest manner, comply with all laws and regulations, 
and avoid the appearance of impropriety and conflicts 
of interest. 
One of the most important responsibilities Windstream 
employees have is the obligation to report possible 
workplace violations of law, the Guidelines and our 
policies. Windstream encourages employees to fulfill 
this responsibility and to seek advice when in doubt 
about the best course of action. We offer several 
alternatives for obtaining compliance advice and 
reporting possible violations of applicable law or these 
guidelines, including the Working with Integrity Helpline 
and Website, which are staffed by an independent 
third party twenty-four hours per day, seven days a 
week. Employees may report violations anonymously 
and Windstream prohibits any employee from taking 
retaliatory action against anyone for making a good 
faith report or assisting in an investigation of a possible 
violation. 
Information reported is promptly transmitted to 
Windstream and investigated. Windstream maintains 
a case management system, and when a matter is 
reported to the helpline or website, it is assigned a 
unique tracking number that enables the individual 
to receive updates on the complaint or subsequently 
provide additional information. Windstream triages all 
cases to ensure they are assigned to the appropriate 
teams in Security, Legal or Human Resources. 
Investigation results are reported quarterly to the 
Compliance Committee, which is comprised of the 
chief compliance officer, chief financial officer, general 
counsel and chief human resources officer, as well as 
the company’s Audit Committee. 
Windstream’s Working with Integrity Helpline and 
Website can be reached at 1-888-898-3990 and  
www.windstream.ethicspoint.com. Anti-corruption  
Windstream expressly prohibits any offer, payment, 
promise, or gift that is intended or appears to 
influence any person or entity to award business 
opportunities to Windstream or to make a business 
decision in Windstream’s favor. In accordance 
with the Guidelines and Supplier Code of Ethics, 
employees and suppliers are required to comply 
with all applicable anti-bribery and anticorruption 
laws of the United States, including the Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act, and countries in which 
operations are being conducted. Additionally, as 
a government contractor, it is important that we 
conduct business with government entities in 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Accordingly, Windstream prohibits employees from 
giving anything of value to government employees 
and officials for any reason.
Windstream’s
WWI
Working with
Integrityw
w
w.windstream.ethicspoint.com  1-888-898-3990GOVERNANCE
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 39HUMAN RIGHTS 
Windstream’s Human Rights Policy 
outlines our commitment to respect 
human rights, which is reflected in every 
aspect of our operations. Guided by the 
human rights due diligence framework 
set forth in the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights, we are 
committed to assessing the impacts 
of our business activities on human 
rights and to addressing adverse 
impacts. Windstream became the 
fourth U.S.-based telecommunications 
service provider to join the UN Global 
Compact to promote accountability and 
stakeholder engagement in the areas of 
human rights, labor and environment. 
Our Human Rights Policy is consistent 
with the Working with Integrity 
Guidelines and Supplier Code of Ethics. 
These policies address topics such as 
customer and employee data privacy, 
diversity and inclusion, health and safety, 
hiring practices, and harassment in the 
workplace, as well as compliance with 
all applicable wage and hour laws and 
regulations, including but not limited 
to those relating to minimum wages 
and overtime hours . Employees and 
suppliers are expected to respect the 
rights of others and maintain high ethical 
standards. Windstream does not tolerate 
any abuse of human rights within our 
business or supply chains. 
 
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 40APPENDIX
ALIGNMENT WITH THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL
 COMPACT’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS – 41
DEFINITION OF MATERIAL ISSUES – 42
ESG DATA INDEX – 43
LAW ENFORCEMENT REQUESTS – 46
GRI INDEX – 47SDG Target Windstream’s Impact
7
AFFORDABLE AND 
CLEAN ENERGYTarget 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of 
renewable energy in the global energy mix.Windstream is directly supporting the transition to a greener grid with our investments in renewable energy, 
with a stated goal of securing at least 50% of our annual Scope 2 purchase electricity demand from renewable 
and carbon-free sources by 2025.  You can track our progress here: Renewable and Carbon-Free Energy
8
DECENT WORK AND 
ECONOMIC GROWTHTarget 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global 
resource efficiency in consumption and production 
and endeavor to decouple economic growth from 
environmental degradation.Windstream is committed to reducing our carbon footprint and has stablished goals to reduce our Scope 1, 2 
and 3 emissions as part of our annual participation with the CDP initiative (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project).  
You can see our targets and review our progress here: Our Emmissions by Scope
9
INDUSTRY, 
INNOVATION AND 
INFRASTRUCTURETarget 9.1 Develop quality, reliable and resilient 
infrastructure, including regional and transborder 
infrastructure, to support economic development 
and human well-being, with a  focus on adorable and 
equitable access for all.Our team understood even before the COVID-19 pandemic that the services we provide are essential to the 
economic, educational and cultural health of the mostly rural communities that Windstream serves. We are 
engaged in a five-year, $2 billion fiber build program, and in 2021 alone deployed fiber-backed gigabit internet 
services to an additional 523,000 locations. Our fiber network now reaches 1.1 million locations, or 20 percent 
of our footprint.
11
SUSTAINABLE CITIES 
AND COMMUNITIESTarget 11.3  By 2030, enhance inclusive and sustainable 
urbanization and capacity for participatory, integrated 
and sustainable human settlement planning and 
management.We are actively pursuing public-private partnerships across our 18 states to deploy fiber in underserved rural 
areas where it would otherwise be uneconomical to do so. That effort was highlighted recently by a $300 million 
partnership that will deliver high-speed broadband to 18 communities across Georgia. 
12
RESPONSIBLE 
CONSUMPTION AND 
PRODUCTIONTarget 12.5  By 2030, substantially reduce waste 
generation though prevention, reduction, recycling,  
and reuse.Windstream is committed to Product Stewardship, inclusive of both eco-design, which considers the inputs 
and resources needed for the solutions we design and engineer, but also the full lifecycle of the equipment 
we deploy across our network and on customer premises. You can see our goals and track our progress here: 
Product Stewardship
13
CLIMATE  
ACTIONTarget 13.1  Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity 
to climate change related hazards and natural disasters 
in all countries.Windstream maintains a robust approach to Business Continuity to both prepare for, and respond to, climate-
related risks and natural disasters. You can read more about our Business Continuity strategy and the work we 
are doing to continue to strengthen network resilience and reduce outages here: Business Continutity
16
PEACE AND JUSTICE
STRONG 
INSTITUTIONSTarget 16.5  Substantially reduce corruption and bribery 
in all their forms.
 
Target 16.8  Promote and enforce non-discriminatory 
laws and policies for sustainable developmentWindstream maintains strict policies and programs, including annual, mandatory employee training, 
independent audits, and hotlines accessible by employees and suppliers, to address and manage bribery and 
corruption risks. Windstream is also committed to diversity and inclusivity, and non-discrimination. You can 
read more about our approach and programs, and review our key policies, here:  Governance
APPENDIX
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 41This year marks our first anniversary as a member of the United Nations Global Compact 
(UNGC), the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative that calls on companies to align 
strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment 
and anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals, such as the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) they have established.Windstream believes we can make a substantial impact towards achieving targets across 
the seven SDGs relevant to our industry and company, as outlined in the table below. We 
will use this annual ESG Report as a way of tracking and sharing our progress. You can read 
more about the UNGC and all of the 17 SDGs, and their 169 related targets, on their website 
at https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc Alignment with the United Nations Global Compact’s Sustainable Development GoalsAPPENDIX
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 42Human Rights - Supply Chain  
The telecom sector relies on communications, equipment and 
technology hardware companies to manufacture and assemble 
products, including modems, phones, routers, switches, 
cables and other communication devices and accessories. 
Manufacturing is still largely concentrated in South East Asia. 
The risk of potential exposure to material human rights issues 
in the supply chain, including child and forced labor, excessive 
work hours, inadequate remuneration (living wages), sexual 
harassment, freedom of association and collective bargaining, all 
represent material ESG issues in our industry. Also included in 
this issue definition are conflict minerals reporting and mitigation 
requirements. Supplier violations pose reputational and 
operational risks for telecoms and increased regulatory scrutiny.
Windstream’s exposure to Human Rights Supply-Chain issues 
was assessed as low by Sustainalytics, similar to the industry 
average.
Human Capital  
Because Windstream provides a specialized technical service, an 
important pillar of our strategy and success is our 11,000-strong 
workforce, with their skills, knowledge and capabilities. Failure 
to develop and leverage their skills, and generate high employee 
engagement, could mean losing them to competitors, especially 
since the labor market competition for technical knowledge is 
intense.
This, alongside the any inability to recruit and train qualified team 
members in a timely manner, could cause operational delays, 
resulting in subpar service, and, potentially, to lost revenues and 
profits.
Windstream’s exposure to Human Capital issues was assessed as 
medium by Sustainalytics, similar to the industry average.
Carbon – Own Operations  
Windstream’s rural footprint of networks and offices rely on 
electricity as a source of energy, which contributes to higher 
carbon intensity compared to our industry peers who tend to operate in more densely populated areas of the country. Failure 
to adhere to energy regulation (both current and proposed) 
could result in additional operating costs in the form of fines and 
corrective measures. Moreover, physical risks such as extreme 
weather events are also a concern as they could cause damage to 
network infrastructure.
Windstream’s exposure to Carbon – Own Operations issues was 
assessed as medium by Sustainalytics, moderately above the 
industry average.
Product Governance  
Product Governance issues in the telecommunication service 
industry includes service quality, maintaining reliable, high-speed 
networks, and responding to customer billing concerns. The 
industry is highly regulated and government agencies routinely 
enforce penalties for poor quality service and publicly report on 
customer complaints. Although fines are not often substantial, 
telecom regulators have the ability to regulate national network 
upgrades, and can enforce market access for other competitors, 
impacting business plans for telecom services. Investigations for 
poor service can negatively impact brand value and customer 
retention. Moreover, telecom companies are increasingly aware 
of climate risks to infrastructure. Natural disasters can cause 
significant damage to telecom networks and disrupt customer 
service. Unreliable service has the potential to financially impact a 
company, particularly if a customer is unable to reach emergency 
personnel (fire, medical, police) due to network outages. 
Widespread outages may result in government investigations 
and fines. Additionally, companies have spent millions of dollars 
improving their networks after outages, with additional negative 
impacts including higher customer churn rates. Some telecom 
companies have also been criticized for lacking transparency in 
their billing practices. Class action lawsuits against telecoms for 
overbilling have led to large settlements.
Windstream’s exposure to Product Governance issues was 
assessed as medium by Sustainalytics, similar to the industry 
average.Business Ethics  
The telecom industry is exposed to Business Ethics risks 
associated with corruption, IP litigation and anti-competitive 
practices. The industry faces one of the highest rates of 
intellectual property (IP) litigation, and he second-highest 
median damages awarded for patent litigation, surpassed only 
by biotech/pharmaceuticals. Telecom companies can face anti-
competitive lawsuits for alleged abuse of dominant market 
positions, such as artificially lowering prices temporarily or 
restricting services to drive competitors out of the market. 
Investigations and litigation following allegations of abuse of 
market dominance are common in this sector, resulting in legal 
and regulatory fines. Anti-trust concerns may also prevent 
mergers and acquisitions. There are also regulatory concerns 
around “net neutrality” laws passed in 2015, which make it illegal 
for internet providers to prioritize some content over others. 
Companies in developed markets may be more exposed to 
investigations and lawsuits related to anti-competitive practices. 
Being implicated in ethics related incidents may affect a 
company’s ability to secure financing and/or increase its network 
coverage area.
Windstream’s exposure to Business Ethics issues was assessed as 
medium by Sustainalytics, similar to the industry average.
Data Privacy and Security  
Windstream provides services to more than 1.3 million residential 
and small business customers through our Kinetic segment and 
to around 3,200 customers through its Windstream Enterprise 
segment. Our clients can use our services to communicate 
highly sensitive personal or business information. Any inability 
to secure the privacy of customer data or being the subject of a 
cybersecurity breach could result in lost trust and business, and 
lead to regulatory scrutiny and action. Windstream’s exposure 
to Data Privacy and Security issues was assessed as medium by 
Sustainalytics, similar to the industry average.Definition of Material IssuesEnvironmental
Emissions and carbon intensity 2019 2020 2021
Scope 1 emissions (CO2e metric tons) 60,350 62,956 59,133
Scope 2 emissions (CO2e metric tons) 286,039 232,749 205,115
Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions (CO2e metric tons) 346,389 295,705 264,248
Carbon intensity (CO2e metric tons of Scope 1 & 2 / $100M of revenue) 67.71 63.39 59.79
Scope 3 emissions (CO2e metric tons) 479,363 508,403 522,972
Scope 3 emissions, business travel only (CO2e metric tons) 5,792 1,908 1,879
Total emissions (Scope 1, 2 & 3, CO2e metric tons) 825,752 804,108 787,220
Vehicle fuels (CO2e metric tons) 49,825 54,472 53,382
Building and other fuels (CO2e metric tons) 10,527 8,484 8,604
Renewable energy
Number of community solar energy contracts - 1 1
% of Scope 2 purchased electricity from renewable sources Not Calculated 16.3% 25.80%
% of Scope 2 purchased electricity from renewable and carbon-free sources Not Calculated 34.9% 42.10%
Fleet
Fleet size (# vehicles at year-end) 4,481 4,338 4,397
Fleet fuel consumption (gallons) 5,346,948 5,988,229 5,816,340
E-waste
Pounds of e-waste recycled 341,273 1,047,699 1,150,000
Pounds of lead acid batteries recycled 33,150 54,011 32,360
Pounds of total waste recycled 374,423 1,102,362 1,171,368
Reuse
# of modems refurbished for redeployment 42,178 63,526 146,618
# of pieces of network and enterprise equipment refurbished for redeployment 57,563 79,395 158,668
# of pieces of equipment sold on the gray market for reuse by others 2,849 20,850 27,515
Water
Water from owned and leased facilities, where reported (1,000,000 gallons) 220 137 130
Water usage reduction from 2016 baseline 28% 55% 58%
APPENDIX
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 43ESG Data IndexPaper and copiers 2019 2020 2021
Reduction in office paper consumption from 2016 baseline 57% 84% 86%
% of office paper with at least 30% PCW content Not Calculated 5% 6%
% of office paper from FSC certified sources Not Calculated 100% 100%
Office printer device reduction from 2018 baseline 21% 43% 46%
Social
Global workforce 2019 2020 2021
US employees (% of total workforce) 100% 100% 100%
International employees (% of total workforce) 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
Race / ethnicity
American Indian / Alaskan Native (% of total U.S. workforce) 1% 1% 1%
Asian (% of total U.S. workforce) 2% 2% 2%
Native Hawaiian / Pacific Islander (% of total U.S. workforce) 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
Hispanic / Latino (% of total U.S. workforce) 4% 4% 4%
Two or more races (% of total U.S. workforce) 1% 1% 1%
Unknown / undeclared (% of total U.S. workforce) 0.5% 0.3% 0.2%
White (% of total U.S. workforce) 83% 83% 83%
Gender
Gender worldwide 2019 2020 2021
Percentage of total workforce (male) 69% 70% 72%
Percentage of total workforce (female) 31% 30% 28%
U.S. employee profile by gender
Percentage of total workforce (male) 69% 70% 72%
Percentage of total workforce (female) 31% 30% 28%
International employee profiled by gender
Percentage of total workforce (male) 83% 85% 85%
Percentage of total workforce (female) 17% 15% 15%
Senior management ethnicity and gender
% of people of color in U.S. senior management (VP and above) 7% 10% 11%
% of women in U.S. senior management (VP and above) 17% 19% 17%
APPENDIX
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 44Health & wellness 2019 2020 2021
Healthcare benefits and services paid $80 million $76 million
Healthcare benefits and services paid (per employee) $6,700 $7,000
Veterans
Number of veteran employees 1,432 1,255 1,314
Number of active-duty military and veteran spouses employed 130 126 121
Total number of veterans and veteran or active-duty military spouses 
employed (% of US workforce)14% 13% 13%
Outsourced, Temporary and Contract Employees
Average # of Outsourced FTEs Supporting Our Business 2,222 1,956 1,893
Average # of Contrators and Temporary Employees 174 61 43
Learning & development
Amount invested in learning and development for our employees $4.6 million $3.5 million $3.2 million
Training hours completed (all employees) 455,725 720,153 850,106
Number of learning experiences that employees have access to Not Calculated 4,115 5,785
Average annual hours of training per team member 37.88 67.99 79.23
Tuition Assistance Metrics
Number of team members who took  
advantage of tuition assistance 138 117 105
Amount of tuition assistance provided  $0.4 million  $0.4 million $0.3 million 
Safety
Occupational injuries and illness rate (per 100 employees) 2.1 1.9 1.9
Supply chain
Diverse supplier spend (with all suppliers) $176 million $182 million $156 million
Diverse supplier spend (% of total spend) 6.0% 6.4% 5.4%
Diverse Supplier spend (addressable spend only) $140 million $138 million $126 million
Diverse Supplier spend (% of total addressable spend) 8.1% 7.9% 7.2%
APPENDIX
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 45"Addressable Spend" can be sourced or bid, and excludes thinga like Interconnect and Channel Partner spend, along with government fees, taxes, etc.Request Type 2021 2020 2019
National Security Letters (NSL)*
(An administrative subpoena issued by the US Government to gather 
information for national security purposes)0 - 100 0 - 100 0 - 100
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA)*
(An order issued by the US Government for the purposes of gathering 
foreign intelligence)0 - 100 100 - 200 100 - 200
Criminal
(Subpoena/ Court Orders/ Search Warrants)1786 1,432 1,255
Private Parties 
(Civil Subpoena/Court Orders and Release of Records)86 91 147
Special - Traps/Trace/Pen Register
(Trap/Trace captures incoming signals (calls or IP addresses), while a 
Pen Register captures outgoing signals (calls or IP addresses)20 42 73
Preservations  
(Requests to preserve records up to 90 days as a requestor seeks legal 
order to obtain those records (e.g. subpoena)36 37 42
Total Data / Voice Targets  
(Number of data points  (e.g. phone numbers, IP addresses) provided 
based on all request types)17,991 22,694 15,164
APPENDIX
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 46Windstream’s Law Enforcement Support 
Center (LESC) processes submissions 
of legal requests (e.g. subpoena, court 
order, search warrant) for criminal and 
civil matters while supporting local, state 
and federal law enforcement agencies 
in their investigations.  The LESC also 
responds to exigent requests, or matters 
involving imminent harm to a child, risk 
of death, or serious physical injury to any 
person which require the disclosure of 
information without delay.  Windstream 
complies with all applicable laws when 
releasing subscriber information, 
including The Cable Communications 
Policy Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. § 551); The 
Electronic Communications Privacy Act 
(18 U.S.C. §§ 2510-2522, 2701-2712, 
3121-3127); Communications Assistance 
for Law Enforcement Act (47 U.S.C. §§ 
1001-1010); the Telecommunications 
Act of 1996 (particularly, 47 U.S.C. § 
222 pertaining to customer proprietary 
network information or CPNI) and Stored 
Communications Act (“SCA”), 18 U.S.C 
Sections 2701-2712.Law Enforcement Requests
 * The exact number of NSL and FISA requests received by Windstream may not be reported publicly per federal law (50 U.S. Code § 1874 - Public reporting by persons subject to orders).  Windstream is 
required to report such requests in ranges.   Disclosure Disclosure title 2021 Response
GRI 102: General disclosures 2016
Organizational profile
102-1 Name of the organization Windstream Services LLC
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services https://www.windstream.com/siteselector 
102-3 Location of headquarters Our Corporate Headquarters is in Little Rock, Arkansas
102-4 Location of operations United States and Canada
102-5 Ownership and legal form Privately held
102-6 Markets served United States and Canada
102-7 Scale of organization As of December 31, 2021, Windstream employed 10,997 teammates
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Social – Our workforce by the numbers
102-9 Supply chain Social – Supply chain
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chainApproach – Message from the President and CEO, emergence from restructuring process as privately-held company in 
September 2020
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Environmental – Business continuity, Environmental – Product stewardship, Governance – How we govern
102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact signatory, CDP Climate Change
102-13 Membership of associations The United States Telecom Association (USTelecom)
Strategy
102-14 Statement from the senior decision-maker Approach – Message from the President and CEO
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviorGovernance – Ethics and compliance, Social – Human capital: guiding principles  
Supplier Code of Ethics 
Ethics Policy
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethicsGovernance – Code of Conduct
Code of Business Ethics and Conduct in Governmental Contracting
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Approach – Message from the CEO, Approach – ESG strategy, Governance – How we govern
102-19 Delegating authority Approach – Message from the CEO, Approach – ESG strategy, Governance – How we govern
102-20Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social 
topicsApproach – Message from the CEO, Approach – ESG strategy, Governance – ESG governance
102-25 Conflicts of interestGovernance – Ethics and compliance, Governance – Code of Conduct  
Code of Business Ethics and Conduct in Governmental Contracting
APPENDIX
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 47GRI IndexStakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Approach – Message from the CEO, Environmental – Environmental impact
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social – Labor relations, as of December 31, 2021, 15.6% of employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Approach – ESG priorities, Appendix – Definition of material issues
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Approach – ESG transparency
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Approach – ESG priorities, Appendix – Definition of material issues
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Not applicable (Windstream is privately held)
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Table of contents, Approach – Message from the CEO, Approach – ESG priorities
102-47 List of material topics Approach – ESG priorities, Appendix – Definition of material issues
102-48 Restatements of information None
102-49 Changes in reporting None
102-50 Reporting period January 1, 2020 – December 31, 2020
102-51 Date of most recent report April 21, 2022
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding this report Investorelations@windstream.com 
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI standards: Core option
102-55 GRI content index GRI Index
102-56 External assurance2020 CDP emissions and carbon intensity reporting (Apex) [2021 certification in-process]
Supplier Diversity spend ( Supplier.io)
GRI 200: Economic
GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital Inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Human prosperity
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital Inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Human prosperity
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital Inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Human prosperity
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Environmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital Inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Human prosperity
GRI 300: Environmental
GRI 301: Materials 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Product stewardship, Environmental - Paper
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Product stewardship, Environmental - Paper
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Product stewardship, Environmental - Paper
300-2 Recycled input materials used Environmental – Product stewardship, Environmental – Paper, Appendix – ESG data index
300-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Environmental – Product stewardship, Environmental – Paper, Appendix – ESG data index
APPENDIX
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 48GRI 302: Energy 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data index
302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data index
302-3 Energy intensity Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data index
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data index
302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services Environmental – Real Estate, Environmental – Fleet, Environmental - Product stewardship
GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Water consumption, Appendix – ESG data center
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Water consumption, Appendix – ESG data center
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Water consumption, Appendix – ESG data center
303-5 Water consumption Environmental – Water consumption, Appendix – ESG data center
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Emissions and carbon intensity
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data center
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data center
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data center
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental – Our emissions by scope, Appendix – ESG data center
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissionsEnvironmental – Renewable Energy, Environmental – Real Estate, Environmental – Fleet, Environmental – Our emissions 
by scope, Appendix – ESG data center
GRI 306: Waste 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Product stewardship
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Product stewardship
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Product stewardship
306-1 Waste generated and significant waste-related impacts Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Product stewardship
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Environmental – Environmental impact, Environmental – Product stewardship
306-4 Waste diverted for disposal Environmental – Product stewardship, Appendix – ESG data center
GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental – Environmental impact
103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental – Environmental impact
APPENDIX
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 49103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental – Environmental impact
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulationsWindstream has not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations during this reporting 
period
GRI 400: Social
GRI 401: Employment 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Compensation and benefits
103-2 The management approach and its components Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Compensation and benefits
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Compensation and benefits
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover In 2021, Windstream hired 2,392 new employees and total employee turnover was 17%
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employeesSocial – Compensation and benefits, Appendix – ESG data center
401-3 Parental leaveWindstream offers 10 days of paid parental leave to full-time, eligible birth and adoptive parents (mothers and fathers) 
who have continuous employment for the previous 12 months and meet FMLA requirements. The benefit may be used in 
the 12 weeks following the birth or adoption of a child.
GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2018
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social - Safety
103-2 The management approach and its components Social - Safety
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social - Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Social - Safety
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Social - Safety
403-4Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational 
health and safetySocial - Safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Social - Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health Social – Employee compensation and benefits, Social - Safety
403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts 
directly linked by business relationshipsSocial - Safety
403-8 Workers covered by occupational health and safety management system Social - Safety
403-9 Work-related injuries Social - Safety
403-10 Work-related ill health Social - Safety
GRI 404: Training and education 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social – Learning and development
103-2 The management approach and its components Social – Learning and development
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social – Learning and development
404-1 Average hours of training per employee Social – Learning and development, Appendix – ESG data center
APPENDIX
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 50404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Social – Learning and development
404-3Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviews100% of full-time employees
GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Diversity and inclusion
103-2 The management approach and its components Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Diversity and inclusion
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social – Human capital guiding principles, Social – Diversity and inclusion
405-1 Diversity of governing bodies and employees Social – Our workforce by the numbers, Appendix – ESG data center
GRI 413: Local communities 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaryEnvironmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Digital safety, Social – 
Robocalls, Social – Open Internet
103-2 The management approach and its componentsEnvironmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Digital safety, Social – 
Robocalls, Social – Open Internet
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachEnvironmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Digital safety, Social – 
Robocalls, Social – Open Internet
413-1Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programsEnvironmental – Business continuity, Social – Digital inclusion, Social – Accessibility, Social – Digital safety, Social – 
Robocalls, Social – Open Internet
GRI 415: Public policy 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Political spending policy 
103-2 The management approach and its components Political spending policy 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Political spending policy 
415-1 Political contributions In 2021, Windstream made $132,450 in pollical contributions through our PAC
GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance – How we govern
103-2 The management approach and its components Governance – How we govern
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance – How we govern
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Windstream has not identified any non-compliance with laws and/or regulations during this reporting period
APPENDIX
APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 51©  2022 Windstream Intellectual Property Services, LLC.  All rights reserved.  Kinetic and Windstream are registered service marks or 
trademarks of Windstream Intellectual Property Services, LLC.
Copyright ©2020 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved.
This publication contains information developed by Sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). Such information and data are proprietary of 
Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an 
endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular 
purpose. Their use is subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.
