2019
Wisdom Marine Group
Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAbout this Report 2
Message from the Chairman 3
1About Wisdom 4
 1.1 Company Profile
 1.2 Sustainable Development of Wisdom
 1.3 Governance Structure
 1.4 Risk Evaluation and Management
 1.5 Economic Performance
2Communication with 22
 Stakeholders and Material Topics
 2.1 Stakeholder Engagement
 2.2 Material Issues
 2.3 Participation in External Organizations
3Shipping Planning Management 32
 3.1 Maritime Safety
 3.2 Cargo Shipping Quality
 3.3 Vessel Operation and Supply Chain Management
4Sustainable Marine Management 52
 4.1 Energy Management
 4.2 Emissions Management
 4.3 Purchase of Eco ships
 4.4 Environmental Impact of the Transport Process
 4.5 Environmental Regulation Compliance
5Talent Cultivation and Social Integration 70
 5.1 Staff Composition and Benefit Care
 5.2 Training and Occupational Safety
 5.3 Social Participatio n──Examples of Maritime Rescue
GRI Content Index 90ContentsTo fulfill corporate social responsibilities and establish smooth communication with stakeholders, 
Wisdom Marine Group ( hereinafter referred to as “ Wisdo m”) has compiled the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report ( hereinafter referred to as “this Repor t” or  “CSR Repor t”) to disclose Wisdom’s 
operating strategies, results, and future goals in relation to corporate governance, economy, social and 
environment.
Basis of Preparation
The content of this Report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards ( Core Option s) issued by 
the Global Reporting Initiative ( GRI). Please refer to the GRI Content Index at the end of this Report.
Reporting Period and Cycle
The information disclosure period of this Report is from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019. The 
Report is published once each year. The 2018 CSR Report was published in June 2019, while the 2020 
CSR Report is expected to be published by June 2021.
Reporting Scope
The financial and non-financial information in this Report is illustrated in terms of the Group as a whole, 
including Wisdom Marine Lines Co., Ltd., the parent company, and its subsidiaries ( please refer to 1.1 
Company Profile for detail s).
Quality Management of Information and Data
To ensure quality and accuracy, all information and data in this Report are collected from different 
departments, submitted to the Corporate Social Responsibility Team ( hereinafter referred to as CSR 
Team), and reviewed by department supervisors and the Chairman. Financial information in this 
Report is based on the consolidated financial report certified by Ernst & Young Accounting Firm. 
Unless otherwisestated, all amounts are indicated in the US dollar.
Contact
Wisdom Marine Lines Co., Limited
Addres s/Rm. 711, 7F, No. 237, Sec. 2, Fu-hsing S. Rd., Taipei 106, Taiwan
Contac t/Administration Department
Tel/(02)2755-2637
Emai l/ir@wisdomlines.com.tw
Company websit e/http://www.wisdomlines.com.tw/ About this Report  Message from the Chairman
I.Operating Environment
The Brumadinho dam disaster led to a volatile market in the first quarter of 2019, especially for Capesize 
vessels. Later, as the US-China trade dispute failed to reach an agreement, market sentiment became 
pessimistic. Despite a rebound in the third quarter, shipping companies remained prudent and took a 
cautious approach toward newbuilding and long-term charter parties. Shipping companies and cargo 
owners adopted a wait-and-see attitude towards the restrictions on sulfide emission to be imposed in 
2020. The majority of the market is currently using low-sulfur fuel as the solution to control sulfur emission. 
However, this approach will inevitably lead to a shortage of low-sulfur fuel and rising fuel prices. A 
recovery period will be required to resolve such an issue.
Due to the outbreak of COVID-19 at the beginning of 2020, the Chinese New Year holiday was extended, 
transportation restrictions were imposed in many cities for epidemic prevention, resulting in a severe 
impact on the dry bulk shipping market in the first quarter. Amid the recovery period of low-sulfur fuel, 
the sudden change in market conditions was undoubtedly a harsh blow to a market already grappling 
with a range of issues. Such market volatility, while threatening the confidence of shipping companies, 
puts constant pressure on the supply of vessels. Despite cyclical shipping demand, medium to 
long-term growth remained steady. Therefore, drastic market volatility induced by short-term factors 
will always result in a market rebound. For instance, the recovery of the reduced demand after the volatility 
in the first quarter is likely to stimulate the shipping industry. Investment in newbuilding remained low 
due to the prudent approach since 2019, which suggests a potentially larger gap between the supply 
and the rising demand as well as more room for a rebound.
II.2019 Operating Results
In 2019, the number of vessels in our fleet recorded a net decrease of 1 to 129 at the end of the year. 
Non-operating income from the disposal of vessels was approximately US$3.2 million. Despite a volatile 
market in 2019, our excellent timing in negotiating newbuilding charter parties allowed us to achieve a 
gross profit margin of over 40% while maintaining a balance for renewed contracts. Revenue increased 
by 3.2% to US$447 million. However, the gross profit margin decreased from 27.8% to 25.8%. In terms 
of non-operating income, the income from the disposal of ships was approximately US$3.2 million and 
the proceeds from the termination of contracts amounted to US$22.6 million. Overall, our net operating 
profit was US$110 million and net profit was US$71 million.
Ⅲ.2020 Business Plan
Seven new ships are expected to be delivered in 2020, all of which are built by
first-class Japanese shipyards, such as Imabari, JMU, Namura, and Kawasaki. In
particular, 2 of which have complied with the Tier III NOx emission standards and
2 of which are environment-friendly ships equipped with desulfurization devices.
Facing uncertainty in the external environment, we will adopt a more flexible 
approach with self-operated and short-term charters for our ship operation. 
It will allow us to stay up to date on market development and seek stable 
contracts after the impact of the sulfur restrictions and the coronavirus
pandemic has subsided.
Meanwhile, we seek opportunities to sell our older vessels. Not only can it 
facilitate the replacement of such vessels, but also reduce our exposure to 
interest rate volatility through asset disposal to improve our capital structure.
Chairman
02 03
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report Message from the ChairmanEconomic Performance
Corresponding Sustainable Development Goals ( SDG s)/
SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
Contribution of SDGs and Performance Highligh t/
● In 2019, net operating profit was US$110 million and net profit was US$71.1 
million.
● The economic value retained in 2019 was US$28.1 million.
Corresponding Sustainable Development Goals ( SDG s)/
SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals
Contribution of SDGs and Performance Highligh t/
● Learning the latest technologies and professional knowledge in cooperation
 with multiple classification societies, such as American Bureau of Shipping 
(ABS) from the United States, Bureau Veritas ( BV) from France, Det Norske 
Veritas and Germanischer Lloyd ( DNV G L) from Norway and Germany, 
Lloyd’s Register ( LR) from the United Kingdom, and Nippon Kaiji Kyokai 
(NK) from Japan.
● The Company expanded the business with “ integrit y” as its core value. We 
are recognized by the best international shipping companies, such as 
Glencore, Nippon Tusen ( NYK), “K” Line, and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines ( MOL). 
We have established a long-term partnership with such companies to 
achieve sustainable development.
1.1 Company Profile
1.2 Sustainable Development of Wisdom
1.3 Governance Structure
1.4 Risk Evaluation and Management
1.5 Economic Performance1About Wisdom
04 05
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1About WisdomNT$6.9  billionCapital
2734No. of
employees
129No. of
vessels
NT$13.8  billionRevenue
1999 Established Wisdom Marine Lines S.A. in Panama.
2003Well Shipmanagement and Maritime Consultant Ltd. received the Panama
Document of Compliance ( DOC) from BV.
2009● Well Shipmanagement and Maritime Consultant Ltd. received the H.K. DOC
 (Document of Complianc e) from BV.
● The fleet had a total of 50 vessels.
2010On December 1st, Wisdom Marine was listed on Taiwan Stock Exchange ( TWS E),
achieving its goal of transparency and sustainable development.
2013On November 14th, Wisdom Marine held a global depository receipt listing
ceremony at London Stock Exchange. It was the first global depository
receipt in the Greater China Region listed on the main market of the London
Stock Exchange.
20182014 The fleet had a total of 100 vessels.
Ranked top 5% in the Corporate Governance Evaluation System by TWSE.
2019 Established Wisdom Lines Europe BV in Rotterdam, Netherlands.Wisdom Milestones 1.1 Company Profile
In March 1999, Wisdom Marine Lines S.A. was established in Panama. In 2002, Well Shipmanagement 
and Maritime Consultant Co., Ltd. was established in the Republic of China ( changed to a joint-stock 
company in 2011, hereinafter referred to as “ Well Shipmanagemen t”). In 2008, the holding company 
Wisdom Marines Line Co., Ltd. was established in the British Cayman Islands. In the same year, 
Wisdom Marine International Inc. ( hereinafter referred to as Wisdom Marine Internationa l) was
established in the Republic of China, collectively referred to as the “ Wisdom Marine Group .”
Wisdom Marine Lines Co., Ltd .
(Cayman Islands )
Percentage of shareholdin g/
100%
Wisdom Marine
International Inc.
Percentage of shareholdin g/
100%Wisdom Marine Lines S.A.
(Panam a)
Percentage of shareholdin g/
100%
Subsidiaries under
Wisdom Marine Lines S.A.
Percentage of shareholdin g/
100%Well Shipmanagement and 
Maritime Consultant Co., Ltd.
Percentage of shareholdin g/
100%
Wisdom Lines Europe B.V.
Percentage of shareholdin g/
100%
Pescadores Investment and 
Development Inc.
Percentage of shareholdin g/
40%
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1About Wisdom
06 07
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1About Wisdom 1.2 Sustainable Development of Wisdom
United Nations ’ (UN) SDGs
In 2015, the UN proposed 17 Sustainable Development Goals ( SDG s) consisting of 169 detailed goals, 
which will serve as a reference for the global sustainable development in the next 15 years 
(2016~203 0). With business presence across the globe, Wisdom is operating without neglecting the 
responsibility to contribute to global sustainable development. Referring to the “ Integrating the SDGs 
into corporate reporting: A practical guid e” published by UN Global Compact ( UNG C) and GRI in 
August 2018, Wisdom identified sustainable development issues to which it can contribute with 3 
steps, (1) identification, ( 2) consideration, and ( 3) reporting and action. Wisdom then combined such 
issues with its sustainable development strategies to integrate sustainable operation into its business. 
Lastly, the results were disclosed and reviewed in this Report to contribute to SDGs step by step.
Sustainable Operation Strategies and Vision
Professional planning and management is the foundation for the shipping industry to ensure the safety 
and stable operation of vessels. We are also committed to reducing the environmental impact of the 
operation process. Sustainable operation can only be achieved with smooth cooperation between our 
employees and seafarers. Therefore, Wisdom has connected the core value of sustainable development,
“shipping planning management ,” “marine environmental sustainability ,” and “ talent cultivation and 
social integration ,” with SDGs to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities.The Wisdom fleet sails in ports across five continents around the world, delivering food, 
minerals, fertilizers, etc.
Business Overview
Wisdom’s scope of business includes marine transportation, vessel chartering, management, and 
maintenance. As of the end of 2019, the fleet had a total of 129 vessels, including 115 self-owned 
vessels and 14 non-self-owned vessels ( including manage-only, chartered-in, joint venture vessel s). 
The fleet consists of dry bulk vessels, log carriers, tween deckers, multi-purpose vessels, RoRo ships, 
and container ships of different sizes ranging from Handy to Capesize vessels.
Number
of
vesselsType Main cargoDeadweight
tonnage
(DWT)
Small 
Handy
Bulk materials, including 
grains, coal, mineral sands, 
and industrial raw materials
Grain, steel, fertilizer, cement, 
wood, wood chips, and pulp
General cargo, dry bulk
OtherHandySupramax
6323923
Other ship types of the Company
include liquefied natural gas 
carriers, RoRo ships, container
ships, and passenger shipsBelow 25,999Coal, iron ore 3 Over 110,000
 26-49,999 50-66,999
Bulk materials, including 
grains, coal, mineral sands, 
and industrial raw materialsPanamaxCape
26  67-109,999
08 09
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1About Wisdom Comply with international environmental regulations, take the lead in adopting
  Eco ships, and the ballast water management system to protect the marine
   environment.
    SDG Target s/Sustainable Marine Environmen
●3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and 
illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water, soil 
pollution, and other contamination.
●13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-
 related hazards and natural disasters in all countries.●12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and 
efficient use of natural resources.
●12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through
 prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse.
●14.1 By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of 
all kinds, in particular those from land-based activities, including
 marine debris and nutrient pollution.
●14.3 Minimize and address the impacts of ocean acidification.Shipping Planning and Management
We are committed to compliance with laws and regulations and reducing the number of 
deficiencies during Port State Control inspections to improve transportation quality, keep 
abreast of ship conditions, and provide transparent and real-time relevant information to 
clients.
SDG Target s/
●17.1 Strengthen domestic resource mobilization, including through
 international support to developing countries, to improve
 domestic capacity for tax and other revenue collection.
●17.16  Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development,
 complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that
 mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology, and
 financial resources, to support the achievement of the
 sustainable development goals in all countries.
Talent Cultivation and Social Integration
Establish a comprehensive system for talent recruitment, welfare, and
care, cultivation and performance evaluation, occupational health, and
safety policies. Actively maintain long-term relationships with the outstanding
crew manning agencies to ensure the stable return of seafarers. Provide
training and conduct regular drills during the voyages to ensure the
occupational safety and career development of seafarers, cultivate outstanding
shipping talents, and facilitate the sustainable development of Wisdom.
SDG Target s/
●8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all 
 women and men, and equal pay for work of equal value.
●8.8 Protect labor rights and promote safe working environments for all workers, 
including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious
 employment.
●10.2 By 2030, promote social, economic, and political inclusion, irrespective of age, 
sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion, or economic or another status.
●10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities, including eliminating
 discriminatory laws, policies, and practices and promoting appropriate legislation,
 policies, and action.
Three Key Focus of Wisdom’s
Sustainable Development and SDG Targets
10 11
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1About Wisdom1.3.1 Board of Directors and Directors
■Board of Directors
Concerning the principle of corporate governance, Wisdom ensures shareholders’ rights, strengthens 
the function of the Board of Directors, exercises the supervisory function of independent directors, 
strengthens risk management and control over finance and operations, respects shareholder interest, 
and enhances information transparency. Adhering to the principles of transparency, accuracy, 
real-time, and fair disclosure, Wisdom provides financial and business information on the Company 
website and the Market Observation Post System ( MOP S) to ensure that shareholders can obtain the 
latest information of the Company. 1.3 Governance Structure
Shareholders’ Meeting
Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee
Nominating Committee
CSR Committee
Safety Management 
Committee
Chief Technology 
Officer
Supply Dept. ISM Dept.
Technical Dept . Finance Dept.Seaman
Affairs Dept.
Business &
Operation Dept .Administration
Dept.Chief Operating 
OfficerSingapore BranchBoard of Directors
ChairmanAuditing Office
President
Chief Financial 
OfficerWisdom Marine Lines Co., Ltd. formulated the articles of association and organizational structure in 
accordance with the laws of Cayman with reference to the Taiwan Company Act. The Board of Directors
is the highest management level of corporate governance. Currently, the Board of Directors consists of 
9 directors, including 5 independent directors, who are also the members of the Audit Committee. For 
the members of the Board of Directors and their experience, please refer to P.18-20 of Wisdom’s 2019 
Annual Report_En. In addition, the Remuneration Committee and Nominating Committee have been
established for the purpose of corporate governance.
Directors were fully re-elected at the Shareholder’s Meeting on May 25, 2018. A total of 13 board
meetings were held in 2019. For detailed attendance of such meetings, please refer to P.30 of
Wisdom’s 2019 Annual Report_En.
1.3.2 Functional Committees
■Audit Committee
The Audit Committee complies with the “ Regulations Governing the Exercise of Powers by Audit
Committees of Public Companie s” to promote corporate governance, optimize the auditing and
supervisory function, and strengthen the compliance of management functions. The operation of the 
Wisdom’s Audit Committee is authorized by the Board of Directors in accordance with Wisdom’s
organizational rules. The committee consists of 5 independent directors. A total of 13 regular meetings 
were held in 2019. For the attendance of independent directors, please refer to P.34 of Wisdom’s 2019 
Annual Report_En.
Principle Responsibility:
■ Fair presentation of financial statements.
■ Appointment and termination of certificated public accountants, evaluation of their independence 
 and performance.
■ Effective implementations of internal control.
■ Compliance with laws and regulations.
■ Management of existing or potential risks.
■Remuneration Committee
To improve Wisdom’s director and manager remuneration system, the “ Remuneration Committe e” was 
established on November 25, 2011 in accordance with the “ Regulations Governing the Appointment 
and Exercise of Powers by the Remuneration Committee of a Company Whose Stock is Listed on the 
Taiwan Stock Exchange or the Taipei Exchang e” and the “ Remuneration Committee Charter .” The 
committee consists of 5 independent directors. A total of 3 meetings were held in 2019. For the
attendance of independent directors, please refer to P.49 of Wisdom’s 2019 Annual Report_En.
Principle Responsibility:
■ Establish and regularly review the annual and long-term performance targets and policies of the
 directors and managers, as well as the remuneration policies, systems, standards, and structures.
■ Regularly evaluate directors’ and managers’ progress in achieving their targets, and set their
 remuneration packages.
12 13
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1About Wisdom■Nominating Committee
In order to improve Wisdom’s director nomination system, the “ Nominating Committe e” was established
on December 19, 2014 in accordance with the “ Code of Practice for the Governance of Listed Companies
on the OT C” and the “ Nominating Committee Charte r”. The committee convened one meeting in 2019. 
For the attendance of such meeting, please refer to P.51 of Wisdom’s 2019 Annual Report_En.
Principle Responsibility:
■ Formulate standards required by board members and senior managers. Seek, review, and nominate
 candidates accordingly.
■ Construct and develop the organizational structure of the Board of Directors and committees.
 Evaluate the performance of the Board of Directors, committees, directors, and senior managers, as
 well as the independence of independent directors.
■ Formulate and regularly review directors’ training plans and succession plans of directors and
 senior managers.
■CSR Committee
To improve and strengthen Wisdom’s corporate governance and fulfill its corporate social responsibilities,
Wisdom established the CSR Committee in 2016. The chairman is appointed or designated by the 
Board of Directors. The committee is responsible for the preparation and compilation of material 
issues, holding regular discussion meetings to review our performance in corporate sustainability, and 
the preparation of the CSR Report. The committee convened 2 meetings in 2019 to keep track of the 
latest situation, revise internal controls, and establish a database required by different indicators. 
Moreover, the committee continues to record and track in daily operations to implement the Company’s
sustainable development business strategies.
■Safety Management Committee
To improve and strengthen the safety and management of the Company’s operation, enhance awareness
of ship-to-shore safety, and comply with the requirements of the Company’s safety management 
system, Wisdom established the “ Safety Management Committe e” in 2017. The chairman is appointed 
or designated by the Board of Directors. The committee convened 2 meetings in 2019.
Principle Responsibility:
■ Develop a safety management audit plan and track the implementation results.
■ Review the safety management audit results and ship deficiencies.
■ Conduct internal audit on safety management, evaluate the efficiency of the safety management system,
 and revise accordingly.
■ Compile the latest regulations and information related to safety management.
■ Regularly report safety management issues to the Board of Directors.1.3.3 Code of Practice and Norms
The core value of Wisdom ’s corporate management is “ integrity .” Employees must treat clients and 
suppliers fairly and honestly when conducting business. They shall not violate this principle by bribing 
or accepting improper benefits, either directly or indirectly. Therefore, Wisdom has stipulated regulations
and standards in the code of conduct and employment contracts. Employees shall strictly comply with 
such regulations in the course of business. Identified violators of the regulations will be handled in 
accordance with the management regulations of the Company and local laws.
● During the employment period, employees
 are obliged to keep confidential: business
 secrets not publicly available and have 
economic value, which they may directly 
or indirectly receive, access, or are aware
 of due to their duty.
● For business needs, employees may entertain business partners at the expense of the Company.
 The party shall be a supervisor or business executive of a partner of the Company.
● Without the prior written consent of the Company, unless conducting proper duties, employees 
shall not deliver, inform, transfer, or otherwise disclose the above secrets to third parties, nor 
shall they use them for themselves or third parties. The same shall apply within two years of 
resignation.
● During the employment period, without the written consent of the Company, employees are 
prohibited to do the following:
 (A) Conduct or operate in direct competition with the Company in their own names or in the
       name of other persons.
 (B) Serve as an employee, entrusted person, or consultant in a company or business of the
       same or similar nature as the Company.● Employees shall not use their power for 
their interests or for others.
● Employees shall not receive treats, gifts, 
rebates, or other illegal benefits in their 
duties or the violation of their duties.
Use of
Business
InformationCode of
Conduct for 
BusinessCode of
Conduct for 
Personal
Interest
14 15
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1About Wisdom1. Hire armed guards and sail with armed escort fleets 
dispatched by different countries if possible, and 
purchase extra insurances for such voyages.
2. The ISM Dept. is responsible for assisting seafarers to 
familiarize themselves with anti-theft measures and 
safety requirements.
3. With the real-time weather information provided by 
StormGeo, deviation or other necessary measures will be 
taken as appropriate to reduce loss.● Risk of
 encountering 
pirates
● Loss of time, 
cargo and ship 
damage caused by 
bad weatherShipping
risks
1. Maintain close contact with the shipyards and reduce 
equipment costs through technical cooperation.
2. Pay close attention to weather information, maintain
 smooth ship-to-shore communication, and request port 
agents to provide real-time information.● Risk of increased 
ship expenditure 
caused by new 
environmental 
regulations
● Risk of abnormal 
tide/monsoon 
changesClimate
change 1.4 Risk Evaluation and Management
Risk assessment and management are the keys to sustainable operation. Wisdom holds meetings with 
supervisors every month to track and control various risk indicators. In the case of material abnormality,
an emergency meeting will be held to formulate countermeasures. Currently, Wisdom’s identification of 
potential risks and countermeasures are as follows:
Countermeasures Potential risks Risks
1. Stable employees and experience inheritance are one of 
the key points of Wisdom’s long-term strategic plans to 
reduce the turnover of senior employees.
2. Establish a comprehensive employee welfare system to 
increase the sense of belonging for employees.
3. Establish employee training plans and communication 
mechanisms to improve work efficiency and protect 
employees’ rights.● Senior talent 
turnover risks
● Increased costs 
and management 
difficulties due to 
the increase
 in the number of 
employeesTurnover1. Evaluate the borrowing interest rate of banks and select 
suitable financing terms. Improve bargaining power with 
banks and reduce financing costs with stable operating 
performance.
2. Provisions for currency change have been established for
 most financing of Wisdom’s vessels. Based on the
 evaluation, Wisdom can apply for currency change to the 
banks to reduce exchange rate risks.
3. Wisdom spreads its exposure to market volatility and 
secures cash flow for financing repayment by spreading 
the due date of long-term charter parties and adjusting 
the ratio of long-term to self-operated charters.
4. Establish a smooth communication channel, long-term 
cooperation with clients, and actively acquire new clients.● Interest rate risks
● Exchange rate risks
● Shipping market 
volatility risks
● Risks from the 
excess
 concentration
 of salesFinancial
risks
● Increased cost 
 due to safety
 requirements of the
 International 
Maritime
 Organization
● Risks of a
 multinational 
business
● Damage due to 
ship operation are 
not covered by 
insurance
● Operational impact 
due to delays in 
the construction of 
new ships1. The Company puts the safety of ships and seafarers as 
its first priority, compliance with laws and regulations as 
the foundation of stable operation while enhancing the 
competitiveness of the fleets.
2. The management team is required to fully understand the  
legal differences between different regions and regional 
risks, to be equipped with excellent foreign language 
skills to identify and prevent risks. In the case of a crisis, 
they can make quick and correct decisions.
3. Purchase insurance to reduce financial loss and business 
risks.
4. Closely monitor the construction progress of shipyards to 
monitor ship delivery dates.Operating
risksCountermeasures Potential risks Risks
A6
A6C6
C6
16 17
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1About Wisdom 1.5 Economic Performance
Management Approach
AThe Company’s management goal for economic performance is to create 
a stable operating income, operating profitability, and operating cash 
flow to support repayment and operating expenses, and create a stable 
income for shareholders in the long-term.Purpose
BThe Company’s economic performance management policy is supported 
by a business model that focuses on time charters and supplemented by 
spot market business to keep track of the latest market development and 
flexibly adjust contract arrangements. In addition, we carefully choose 
reputable charterers to reduce the risk of default. At the same time, with 
an operating fleet consisted mainly of Eco ships, the Company is able to 
establish long-term and sustainable partnerships with business partners.Policy
DOur long-term financial performance serves as an indicator for evaluating 
economic performance. The Company’s operating model can reduce the 
impact in times of economic downturn. We can also sign favorable 
contracts in a timely manner in case of a rebound, which is in line with the 
goal of maintaining stable revenue. In recent years, the average gross 
profit of the long-term charter parties signed by the Company for Eco 
ships is about 40%, which is more competitive than conventional ships. 
The current management policy for economic performance is operating 
smoothly, there is no plan for adjustment.Evaluation
and
Adjustment of
Management
Policy
CManagement
Approach1. Maintain financial stability and do not pursue
 speculative profits.
2. Invest in Eco ships, take the lead, maintain the 
competitiveness of the fleet, and take into account 
environmental sustainability.
3. Maintain financial transparency, publish monthly 
earning and explain performance changes, and hold 
at least two investor conferences every year.Commitment
Short-term goals:
1. Dispose of old ships with poor efficiency while 
investing in Eco ships. Increase the proportion of ME 
engine Eco ships to over 50%.
Medium and long-term goals:
1. Improve the fleet data reporting system. Analyze fleet 
performance with quantitative data to adjust operating
 policies.
2. Build a 100% environmentally friendly and
 energy-saving green fleet.Goals and 
Targets
CManagement
ApproachBoard of Directors:
approve material contracts and newbuilding investment. 
From 2020 to 2022, we will invest approximately US$512 
million to purchase Eco ships.
Business & Operation Dept.:
assign about 30 employees to liaise with clients, ensure 
smooth operation and keep track of market conditions.
Finance Dept.:
assign about 20 employees to prepare financial statements.
Investor relations:
set up a communication channel to explain the financial 
and business conditions to shareholders and potential 
investors.
Set up offices in Singapore, Tokyo, and Rotterdam to 
gain an understanding of the needs of local charterers, 
which enables immediate ship-shore coordination.Responsibility
& Resources
The Company has a whistleblower system, which can be 
found on the official website ( http://www.wisdomlines
com.tw/wisdom/php/contact_cg4.ph p). The responsible 
department is the Auditing Office. Internal and external 
personnel of the Company are welcome to file a report. 
Reported cases will be put on record, reported, and 
investigated by the Auditing Office. The results will be 
reported to the President or the Board of Directors.Grievance 
Mechanism
18 19
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1About Wisdom1.5.1 Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed
Note 1:  As taxation for operating expenses were reclassified to income tax expenses in the financial
 report, figures of 2017 and 2018 in this table were updated in order to be presented consistently.Direct Economic Value Generated
Retention of Economic Value2017 2018 2019 Year
361,829,905 434,104,171 452,106,427Income:
net operating incom e+interest incom e+(loss) gain 
on disposal of property, plant, and equipment
1,742,206 40,743,642 28,128,008Direct Economic Value Generate d-
Direct Economic Value DistributedDirect Economic Value Distributed
295,816,218 312,824,385 332,036,438Operating costs:
costs incurred by operating activities
62,064,581 77,855,665 89,239,917Payment to investors:
interest expense, dividend payment, special share 
dividend
504,659 674,961 564,340Payment to domestic and foreign governments1:
taxes (excluding deferred taxe s), fines1,702,241 2,005,518 2,137,724Employee salary and benefits:
employee salary, bonus, employee benefits
(pension, insurance )Unit: USD
1.5.2 Revenue Proportion
Unit: US D; %
2017 Year 2018 2019
Percentage Percentage Percentage Item Amount Amount Amount
94.51% 422,940,101 94.10% 407,866,365 93.22% 338,140,736 Hire Revenue
3.01% 13,448,660 3.01% 13,062,803 3.99% 14,490,921 Freight Revenue
100.00% 447,510,914 100.00% 433,434,801 100.00% 362,728,315 Total0.86% 3,848,226 0.91% 3,931,632 1.24% 4,489,049 Management Revenue
1.62% 7,273,927 1.98% 8,574,001 1.55% 5,607,609 OtherIn 2019, Wisdom had 2 new buildings, 1 bareboat-charter-in, 1 time-charter-in, 2 new ships under
management, and disposed of 6 ships, and terminated the bareboat charter of 1 ship. In 2019, the 
number of ships in our fleet recorded a net decrease of 1 to 129 at the end of the year. Non-operating 
income from the disposal of vessels was approximately US$3.2 million.
Despite a volatile market in 2019, owing to our excellent timing in negotiating newbuilding charter 
parties, we managed to achieve a gross profit margin of over 40% while maintaining a balance for 
renewed contracts. However, the revenue proportion of short-term charter parties increased from 
16.8% to 21.3%. Given the replacement of older, smaller ships with newer, bigger ships while keeping 
the total number of ships about the same, revenue increased by 3.2% from US$433 million to US$447 
million. However, due to vessel depreciation, an increase in seafarer salary, maintenance costs, and oil 
prices, the gross profit margin dropped from 27.8% to 25.8%.
In terms of non-operating income, in addition to income from the disposal of ships, proceeds from the 
termination of contracts amounted to US$22.6 million in 2019. Exchange rates were relatively stable. 
Loss on exchange rates was US$2.4 million. Overall, our net operating profit was US$110 million and 
net profit was US$71 million.
20 21
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1About Wisdom2Communication with
  Stakeholders and
 Material Topics
2.1 Stakeholder Engagement
2.2 Material Issues
2.3 Participation in External Organizations 2.1 Stakeholder Engagement
Wisdom follows the five principles of the AA1000SES Stakeholder Engagement Standards-dependency,
responsibility, influence, diverse perspectives, and tension to identify potential stakeholder groups. 
Based on the relationship with Wisdom’s operations, the CSR Team identified the following key
stakeholders via discussion in meetings: investors, government agencies, clients, employees, seafarers,
media, suppliers, insurance companies. Finally, the CSR Team evaluates and determines the weight of 
each criteria for the evaluation of stakeholders based on their communication frequency, dependency, 
and influence.
List of Stakeholders Identified:
Interaction method Stakeholders
InvestorsWisdom creates long-term value for investors with a stable business 
model.
Seafarers selected by Wisdom’s strict screening process is the key to 
providing clients with high-quality services.SeafarerCompetent 
authorityGovernment policies impose a material impact on our business.
Government agencies interacting with Wisdom include registered flag 
states, listing competent authorities, labor competent authorities, and 
pollution prevention departments.
ClientsWisdom is committed to providing clients with the best services and 
establishing long-term partnerships with clients.
The media is an important communication channel for the public. 
Maintaining smooth communication with the media is Wisdom’s strategy
to enhance corporate transparency.MediaEmployeeProfessional knowledge and mutual cooperation of office employees 
are essential for the stable operation of the Company. Wisdom is 
committed to providing employees with comprehensive professional 
training, enhancing labor-management communication channels, 
attaching importance to employee opinions, and creating a friendly 
and safe working environment.22 23
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2Communication with Stakeholders and Material Topics
 2.2 Material Issues
2.2.1 Identification of Material Topics
Based on the GRI Standards published by GRI, taken into account 
the characteristics of the shipping industry and material issues of 
the peers, and having discussed with external consultants and 
internal senior executives, the CSR Team concluded 28 issues 
related to Wisdom in 2018. 1Identification
After the preparation of the CSR Report, the CSR Team will 
conduct a final review of the content to ensure it is free from false 
content. In addition, before publishing the report next year, the 
Company will review the material issues and their order to ensure 
their integrity, responsiveness and inclusiveness each year. 4Review
Without essential changes in the business environment and
considering the continuity of data tracking, we intended to respond 
to material issues that catch the most attention of the stakeholders 
in the same order as the previous year ( 2018) in the corresponding 
chapters of this CSR Report. For details of the reporting scope, 
please refer to 2.2.3 Disclosure Scope of Material Issues. 3Validation
In 2018, 8 types of stakeholders were invited to fill out questionnaires
to investigate their level of concern on 28 issues. We collected 282 
questionnaires, of which 246 were valid. In addition to the
questionnaire on the degree of concern, members of the CSR 
Team and senior management assessed the impact of each topic 
on the economy, environment, and society. We collected 8
questionnaires on the degree of impact. By consolidating the 
degree of concern and impact, the Company created a matrix of 
material issues, identifying 9 major issues that receive the most 
concern. For details, please see 2.2.2 Material Issues Matrix. 2PrioritizationThe Impact of operational risks are mitigated with Protection & Indemnity
(P&I) insurance and Hull & Machinery (H&M) insurance. In addition, 
insurance companies provide consultation on loss prevention and 
training so that the Company can provide safe and quality transportation
services.Insurance 
companiesWisdom’s suppliers include shipyards, ship repair yards, and stores 
and spare parts suppliers. Wisdom is committed to maintaining good 
communication with suppliers to ensure smooth cooperation between 
parties.SupplierInteraction method Stakeholders 2.2.2 Material Issues Matrix
List of material topics:
Economic Performance 1 Human Rights Assessment10 Materials16
Energy 2Freedom of Association 
and Collective Bargaining11 Water and Effluents17
Emissions 3 Non-discrimination12 Biodiversity18
Environmental
Compliance4Labor /
management relationsSupplier Environmental 
Assessment13 19
6 Purchase of Eco ships Anti-corruption15Occupational Safety
and Health21Employment 5 Effluents and Waste14 Market Presence20
7 Maritime Safety Training and Education22
8 Cargo Shipping QualityDiversity and
Equal Opportunities23
9Environmental Impact
of the Transport ProcessForced or
Compulsory Labor24
Local Communities25
Customer Privacy27Supplier’s Social
Assessment26
Socioeconomic Compliance28High attention Medium attention Low attentionImpact levelHighHigh
Low
10
16171112
1813
1915 2114
2022
2324
2527
2628
Stakeholders’ level of concern
24 25
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2Communication with Stakeholders and Material Topics
2.2.3 Disclosure Scope of Material Issues
Energy
EmissionsDue to global warming and air pollution, the International Maritime
Organization (IMO) has been actively formulating regulations on ship 
energy conservation, energy efficiency management, reduction of
greenhouse gas and pollution emissions in recent years.302-1~3 4.1
305-1~4
305-6~74.2Economic
performanceAmid the significant volatility in the dry bulk shipping market, stable revenue
and operating profits bring stable cash flow for repayments and operating 
expenses, laying a solid foundation for our long-term operation and 
creating long-term value for shareholders in such an unstable market.201-1 1.5
Cargo Shipping
QualityThe preparation of cargo hold before loading and smooth transportation 
has a significant impact on the economic interests of charterers and 
cargo owners and the Company’s goodwill.－ 3.2307-1 4Environmental
ComplianceIn the case of major violations, in addition to a heavy penalty, our business
may also be terminated, causing economic loss and damage to corporate 
reputation.
Maritime
SafetyMaritime Safety covers ship safety, human safety, and cargo safety. In the 
event of an accident, damage may be caused to the environment and 
threaten the lives of the seafarers on board. Therefore, safety is the first 
priority of shipowners.－ 3.1
－ 4.4Environmental 
Impact of the
Transport
ProcessInternational Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
(MARPO L) has formulated regulations for the prevention of oil pollution, 
domestic sewage pollution, waste pollution, air pollution, and the prevention
of sea creatures migration through ballast water. Ships must comply with 
regulations and obtain certificates before they can operate.401-1~3 5.1 EmploymentPractical experience is very important to the shipping industry. By
accumulating experience through long-term learning, we can handle and 
deal with emergencies. The mission of the Company is to comply with 
laws and provide a stable employment environment desired by employees
to achieve long-term and stable labor relations.
Purchase of
Eco shipsShip charterers are paying increasing attention to the energy-saving 
performance of ships when signing charter parties. This is reflected in the 
hire, which affects our income and returns to investors.－ 4.3Material issuesScope of material issues
Corresponding
GRI disclosureCorresponding Sustainable 
Development Goals ( SDG s)Corre -
sponding
chapterSignificanc e/importance of material issues
Investors Wisdom Supplier ClientsWithin the
organizationBeyond the organization
26 27
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2Communication with Stakeholders and Material Topics
● Ship visit
● Email
● External inspection● Emission of NOx, SOx,
 and other air pollutants
● Wastewater
● Leakage
● Waste
● Regulation compliance
● Maritime safetyThe Impact of operational risks are mitigated with P&I insurance and 
H&M insurance. In addition, insurance companies provide consultation
on loss prevention and training so that the Company can provide safe
and quality transportation services.Insurance 
companiesIrregular
Inspection: regularIrregular● Telephone
● Email
● Visit in person● Client satisfaction
● Leakage
● Economic performance
● Risk control
● Corporate governanceWisdom is committed to providing clients with the best service and 
establishing long-term partnerships with clients.ClientsIrregular● Telephone
● Email
● Document● Economic performance
● Risk control
● Corporate governance
● Regulation compliance
● Maritime safetyGovernment policies impose a material impact on our business. 
Government agencies interacting with Wisdom include registered 
flag states, listing competent authorities, labor competent authorities,
and pollution prevention departments.Competent 
authorityIrregular● Telephone
● Email
● Reporting channel
● Investor Conference
● Labor-management meeting● Economic performance
● Client satisfaction
● Regulation compliance
● Maritime safety
● Shipping Planning ManagementWisdom creates long-term value for investors with a stable business 
model.Investors
Irregular● Telephone
● Dining
● News release
● Investor Conference● Shipping Planning Management
● Maritime safety
● Purchase of Eco ships
● Economic performance
● LeakageThe media is an important communication channel for the public. 
Maintaining smooth communication with the media is Wisdom’s 
strategy to enhance corporate transparency.Media
Irregular● Telephone
● Email
● Visit in person● Maritime safety
● Risk control
● Regulation compliance
● Shipping Planning Management
● Cargo Shipping QualityWisdom’s suppliers include shipyards, ship repair yards, stores and 
spare parts suppliers and crew manning agency. Wisdom is committed
to maintaining good communication with suppliers to ensure smooth 
cooperation between parties.Supplier● Economic performance
● Employment
● Employee salary standard
● Maritime safety
● Regulation complianceThe cooperation of office employees and seafarers is the key to 
providing clients with high-quality services. Wisdom is committed to 
providing employees with comprehensive professional training, 
enhancing labor-management communication channels, attaching 
importance to employee opinions, and creating a friendly and safe 
working environment.Employe e/
seafarer● Telephone
● Email
● Regular Meeting
● Wisdom Monthly
● Reporting channel
● Labor-management meeting
 (Shore employee s)Captain: every day
Seafarer: irregular
Employee: irregularConcerned issues Communication methods Frequency Stakeholders2.2.4 Summary table of Concerned Issues and Communication
The communication method and frequency between Wisdom and stakeholders are as follows:
28 29
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2Communication with Stakeholders and Material Topics
 2.3 Participation in External Organizations
American Bureau 
of Shipping
(ABS )
Member
CR
Classification 
Society
(CR)
Director
Bureau Veritas
(BV)
Member
Lloyd’s Register 
(LR)
Member
DNV GL
Chairman
of the Taiwan
committee
National Chinese 
Seamen’s Union
Member
The Britannia 
Steam Ship
Insurance
Association
Limited
Member
The Japan Ship 
Owners’ Mutual 
Protection & 
Indemnity
Association
Member
Nippon
Kaiji Kyokai
(NK)
Member
Assuranceforeningen
Skuld
Member
The Swedish Club
Member
Norwegian
Hull Club
Member of
the Committee
The North of
England
Protecting & 
Indemnity
Association Limited
Member
The United
Kingdom Mutual 
War Risks
Association
Limited
Member
The London
Maritime
Arbitrators
Association
Member of
the Committee30 31
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2Communication with Stakeholders and Material Topics
3Shipping Planning
 Management
3.1 Maritime Safety
3.2 Cargo Shipping Quality
3.3 Vessel Operation and Supply Chain Management
Maritime safety
Corresponding Sustainable Development Goals ( SDG s)/
SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
Contribution of SDGs and Performance Highligh t/
● Wisdom formulates drill and training plans. Each ship conducts 8 drills and 
4 trainings, with an average of over 20 hours per month on average and 
approximately 240 hours per year. Ensure seafarers are familiar with the 
emergency procedures to minimize injuries and losses in case of an accident.
● In 2019, the Wisdom fleet had an average of 1.82 deficiencies and a 2.1% 
detention rate during Port State Control inspections. Its performance was 
rated “high” for Tokyo MOU standards.
● In 2019, Wisdom’s total loading voyages were 1,221, of which 17 voyages 
were identified cargo deficiency, with a cargo deficiency rate of 1.39%. 
Despite a slight increase from the previous year, it was still lower than the 
average over the years.
● Out of 1,221 cargo hold inspections in 2019, a total of 1,174 voyages passed 
the initial hold inspection. The initial passing rate of the hold inspection was 
approximately 96.15%, similar to the previous year.
32 33
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3Shipping Planning Management 3.1 Maritime safety
Management Approach
AConcerning the management of maritime safety, to enhance safety 
awareness and reduce the risk of accidents, the Company further 
strengthened ship safety, staff safety, cargo safety, and environmental 
safety.Purpose
BTo enhance safety awareness and promote safe operation, the Company 
has set up a Safety Management System ( SMS ) for all seafarers and 
shore staffs. The Company also regularly updates the SMS in accordance
with regulatory requirements and operating experiences. Seafarer 
recruitment, training, and duty are handled in accordance with relevant 
regulations. Internal and external audits are conducted regularly or
irregularly. The Board of Directors tasks the Safety Management Committee
to review individual cases and procedures.Policy
CManagement
Approach1. Hold regular Safety Management Committee meetings
 to review incidents and regulations related to maritime
 safety, which are then reported to the Board of Directors.
2. Comply with the safety requirements of the International
 Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea ( SOLA S) and
 International Safety Management Codes ( ISM COD E).
3. Ensure smooth implementation of the SMS through 
regular and irregular ship visits or external audits.Commitment
1. Improve port inspection results.
2. Reduce ship accidents.Goals and 
Targets
Safety Management Committee:
consists of the Chief Operating Officer and managers of 
the ISM Dept., Technical Dept., Business & Operation Dept.,
and Seaman Affairs Dept.
ISM Dept.:
assign about 10 employees for ship safety management.
Technical Dept.:
assign four supervisors and about 30 employees to oversee
daily ship maintenance and repair.Responsibility
& Resources
DThe overall inspection results of the Wisdom fleet in 2019 have improved 
compared with 2018. Also, as ship accidents have not increased, adjustment
of the management approach is not needed for the time being.Evaluation
and
Adjustment of
Management
Policy
CManagement
ApproachBusiness & Operation Dept.:
assign four supervisors and about 30 employees to oversee
daily ship operation.
Seaman Affairs Dept.:
assign about 20 employees for seafarer recruitment,
management, and loading arrangements.Responsibility
& Resources
34 35
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3Shipping Planning ManagementWisdom manages its fleets through staff safety, ship safety, and cargo safety. In terms of staff and ship 
safety, Wisdom conducts training and strictly complies with international conventions to reduce the 
number of deficiencies during Port State Control inspections and increase the safety awareness of the 
fleets. In terms of cargo safety, Wisdom strictly complies with international regulations and review 
incidents to reduce cargo damage.
To ensure ship safety and pollution prevention, the International Maritime Organization ( IMO) has 
formulated international conventions as shown in the following table. To ensure the ships comply with 
the requirements of international conventions, the Classification Society also arranges regular inspections
and issues inspection reports and certificates.
International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea
(SOLA S)
International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
(MARPO L)
International Safety Management Code
(ISM Cod e)
Maritime Labour Convention 2006
(MLC 200 6)
International Ship and Port Facility Security Code
(ISPS Cod e)
3.1.1 Port State Control Inspection
To enhance the degree of management, the IMO authorized port states to establish a Port State Control
(PSC). PSC can conduct safety inspections on ships at the port. In the case of a violation, the inspection
officer will issue a deficiency report and request for improvements and review preventive measures. In 
the case of a major violation, the port state may even detain the ship until the violation is resolved 
before it is allowed to leave the port.
Port states in different regions have established organizations similar to alliances to strengthen their 
inspection efficiency and standardize inspection standards. For example, the Tokyo MOU in Asia 
covers 20 port states in the Asia-Pacific region while the Paris MOU covers mainly EU member states. 
An inspection database is shared within the organization. The historical inspection records of ships in 
the area will be recorded in the database. Therefore, different port states can effectively track the past 
deficiency records, which can be revisited to confirm that the ships have conducted improvements 
accordingly.Wisdom fleet’s performance in Port State Control inspections and the standards of the Tokyo MOU in 
2019 are set out in the following table. For each inspection on the Wisdom fleet in port states, an average
of 1.82 deficiencies was identified and the detention rate was 2.1%, which is a slight improvement compared
to 2018. Our performance is maintained above a high level. The non-deficiency rate in 2019 increased 
by 1.3% compared with 2018. The average deficiency decreased by approximately 0.3. The detention 
rate remained the same.
2019 2018
Port State Control Inspection
Tokyo MOU Standards
Average deficiency in each inspection 1.82
Number of detentions 9
Detention rate 2.1%
788 Total deficienciesThe Wisdom 
fleetNumber of
deficiencies%
No deficiency 222 51.4%
Deficiencies 210 48.6%
Total 100% 432
Average deficiency in each inspection 1.85
Number of detentions 8
Detention rate 2.1%
691 Total deficienciesThe Wisdom 
fleetNumber of
deficiencies%
No deficiency 187 50.1%
Deficiencies 186 49.9%
Total 373 100%
<2.13
2.13~4.13
>4.13<1.7
1.7~3.7
>3.7<2.37
2.37~4.37
>4.37<1.86
1.86~3.86
>3.86
Average number of 
deficiencies (times)Average number of 
deficiencies (times)PerformanceDetention
rate (%)Detention
rate (%)
36 37
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3Shipping Planning ManagementWisdom is committed to ensuring smooth operation of the ship safety management system. Circulars, 
ship inspection checklists, and other precautions are sent to the Captains of each vessel. Self inspection
is completed during voyages to pass the inspection smoothly after arriving at the port and to avoid
detention due to major deficiencies.
Self inspection preparation process:The necessary on board disaster prevention and rescue equipment in the event of disasters include 
(but not limited t o) the following:
3.1.2 Safety Drill Training
As ship voyages involve many unpredictable factors, the prevention of marine accidents and emergency
procedures in the event of disasters are important issues. Wisdom’s vessel structure, safety equipment,
drills and training plans, and emergency procedures are compliant with regulations. Staff safety, ship 
safety, and cargo safety have always been our top priority.
Wisdom formulates drill and training plans in accordance with SOLAS. Each ship conducts 8 drills and 
4 trainings with an average of over 20 hours per month and approximately 240 hours per year.
There are 18 types of ship safety drills, including helicopter rescue, underwater rescue, confined space 
rescue, abandon-ship drills, power, engine, and equipment failures, ship collisions, cabin flooding, and 
others. With such safety drills, seafarers can familiarize themselves with emergency procedures in the 
event of accidents to minimize injuries and losses.3.1.3 Ship Security
Since 911, ships have been on the list of vehicles that may be used by terrorists in terrorist attacks. 
Therefore, the IMO formulated the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code ( ISPS Cod e), 
under which all ships sailing on international routes must establish a Ship Security Plan, providing ship 
security plans and guidelines, security drills, and training.
The drills and training planned by Wisdom include bombs, pirate attacks, stowaways, etc. which allow 
seafarers to take the right action and minimize damage when encountering external threats. In addition,
for Somalia and high-risk areas nearby, where pirate attacks are rampant, Wisdom and ship charterers 
hire armed guards to ensure safe voyages.
Key points of ship security:
1. Prevention of thief boarding:Ship
abandonmentLifeboat, life raft
All vessels are equipped with lifeboats ( rafts). When a disaster 
is out of control, seafarers can abandon the ship to escape.Ship
collisionRadar, communication equipment,siren, flashing light
Detect nearby ships with radar. Warn approaching ships with 
the communication equipment, siren, and flashing lights to 
prevent a collision.
Grounding, 
stranding,Sonar Depth Sounder System
Detect water depth along the sailing route with the sonar 
system to prevent grounding or stranding.
Fire hazardHeat detector, smoke detector, fire extinguishing equipment
The cabins and cargo holds are equipped with detectors and 
fire extinguishing equipment to prevent the spread of fire hazards.Prevention and rescue equipment Disaster
Security meeting before arrival at port
Announce security arrangements to seafarers, including risk identification,
checking personal security equipment, appropriate actions to be taken 
by seafarers when under attack, planning patrol groups, and strengthening
seafarers’ security awareness.
Learning the port to be dockedReceive voyage
instructions
Operators send the PSC checklist of the country or region to the CaptainSelf
inspection list
The Captain instructs the seafarers to conduct self inspection according to
the checklistInspection
For deficiencies failing to pass the self inspection, the Company will implement
improvement measuresImprovementThe Captain reports the self inspection results to the Company Report
38 39
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3Shipping Planning Management2. Stowaway prevention:
 Wisdom has formulated a standard procedure in the Ship Security Plan to prevent stowaways. We
 provide a “ stowaway prevention bonu s” to encourage seafarers to conduct strict boarding control and
 thorough search and inspection before sailing to reduce stowaway incidents. In the event of  stowaways,
 Wisdom will issue a circular explaining the incident and preventive measures. We also urge seafarers
 to strictly implement security measures to enhance the fleets' awareness of preventing stowaways.3. Related incidents and countermeasures:
 Wisdom avoids thefts and stowaways with security drills, training, and preventive measures. However,
 there were still two thefts and one stowaway in 2019. After investigation, two thefts occurred in the
 port of Bangladesh at night. After the incident, the Captain arranged additional manpower for regular
 patrols or duty at night. The stowaway incident occurred in the Port of Cape Town, South Africa.
 When a ship heading to Malaysia left the port, a stowaway was found hiding in the bulkhead near
 cargo hold No. 1. We requested the Captain to fully search the ship again before sailing.Protection of material cabins
Cabin doors of all storage rooms, paint rooms, and material rooms on the 
ship must be locked. Valuable belongings must be placed in locked cabins. 
Equipment in lifeboats and life-saving equipment on the deck may also be 
stored in cabins if required, which shall be returned to their original positions
immediately after departure.
Patrol
Patrols shall be fully equipped with security equipment, work in pairs, 
and communicate with the Chief Officer on duty. Any suspicious activity 
identified must be reported immediately.
Illumination
The bow, sides, and deck lights must be turned on. The daylight signal on 
the ship must be used as an additional illuminating tool. At the same time, 
the deputy captain on duty must illuminate the surroundings from time to 
time with searchlights to prevent suspicious boats from getting close.
Communication
When under attack by pirates or armed robbers, immediately report to the 
local search and rescue center. When sailing in a high-risk area, maintain 
radio communication with the shore security and listen to the maritime safety 
broadcast in the area to stay updated with the latest security information.
Additional security measures
Having considered the risks in the area, the Captain may report to the 
Company and request for security guards on the ship.
Improvement measures after the incident 2019 2018
CaseYear
2017
Stowaway 0 1 2 Fully search the ship before sailing.Theft 3 2 3Assign additional manpower for regular patrol or duty
and reinforce the warehouse.
A6 A6 C6C6
40 41
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3Shipping Planning Management 3.2 Cargo Shipping Quality
Management Approach
AThe purpose of our transportation quality management is to ensure the 
quality, quantity, and delivery time of shipped cargoes.Purpose
BThe Company strictly complies with shipping regulations when loading 
cargo to ensure that the vessel is suitable for loading. We formulate cargo 
allocation and lashing plans and confirm the quality of the cargo before 
loading. When loading, the quantity and loading status shall be monitored
and recorded. During voyages, we conduct cargo hold monitoring, 
recording, or ventilation according to the cargo properties. We also record
the weather en route, sea conditions, vessel’s speed and fuel consumption,
etc. in detail. The unloading process is monitored to avoid cargo 
deficiencies (shortage and deficienc y).Policy
CManagement
Approach1. Comply with the International Maritime Solid Bulk 
Cargoes Code ( IMSBC Cod e) and the International 
Maritime Dangerous Goods Code ( IMDG Cod e). 
Conduct seafarer training and implement operating 
procedures.
2. Regular ship maintenance to ensure that the cargo 
hold is watertight and clean.
3. Maintain close communication with vessels on loading
 and unloading preparations and provide support.Commitment
1. Continue to increase the initial passing rate of hold 
inspection per voyage.
2. Continue to reduce the cargo deficiency rate per voyage.
3. Monitor delivery time.Goals and 
Targets
DCargo deficiency and hold inspection passing rate are two KPI items of 
the monitoring mechanism. In 2019, the cargo deficiency rate per voyage 
was 1.39%. Despite a slight increase from 2018, it was still lower than the 
average over the years. In 2019, the initial passing rate of cargo inspection
per voyage was 96.15%, which was similar to that of 2018 ( please refer to 
3.2.1 Shippin g). Real-time vessel position, speed, and weather are also 
monitored with the StormGeo fleet daily report system to optimize sailing 
routes and time.
Given above mentioned, Wisdom’s cargo shipping quality management 
shows a long-term trend of stable improvement. Adjustment of the
management approach is not needed for the time being.Evaluation
and
Adjustment of
Management
Policy
CManagement
ApproachResponsibility
& Resources
Specific 
actionsSafety Management Committee:
review major shipping issues.
Business & Operation Dept.:
monitor daily shipping. The Loss Prevention Team is 
responsible for collecting cases of fleets and strengthening
training.
Seaman Affairs Dept.:
strengthen seafarers’ cargo knowledge and training.
Technical Dept.:
supervise and maintain good ship conditions.
In December 2019, the Port Captain held a workshop on 
“Ship Cargo Operation s” for shore operators.
42 43
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3Shipping Planning Management3.2.1 Cargo Shipping
Aiming at high-quality management of ship services, the Wisdom fleet strictly complies with the IMSBC 
Code and IMDG Code. Under the premise of safe voyage, loading and unloading are conducted according
to ship type and cargo type. We also make flexible adjustments according to the specific needs of 
charterers and the market.
In 2019, Wisdom’s total loading voyages were 1,221, of which 17 voyages were identified cargo deficiency,
with a cargo deficiency rate of 1.39%. Despite a slight increase from the previous year, it was still lower 
than the average over the years. Since 2016, our deficiency rate is still showing a steady improvement 
trend in the long-term. As the fleet grows, Wisdom is still putting continuous effort in safe shipping and 
loss prevention. We continue to strive for high-quality shipping management and gain recognition from 
clients with our international and professional fleet.
Year Cargo voyage Deficiency ratio Cargo deficiency voyage 
2016 966 26 2.69%
2017 1120 22 1.96%
2018 1228 12 0.98%
2019 1221 17 1.39%The initial inspection passing rate for 1,221 cargo hold inspections was approximately 96.15%, only 47 
of which failed the initial inspection, similar to the previous year. Maintaining a high passing rate is 
attributed to Wisdom’s assiduity to the preparation for hold inspections, which is also a demonstration 
of high-quality shipping management.
Year Cargo voyage Deficiency ratio Cargo deficiency voyage 
2018 1228 25 97.96%
2019 1221 47 96.15%
Total 17Reason for deficiency Description Voyage
Improper cargo stowagee.g. Steel or mechanical equipment ( project carg o) is not 
properly secured and lashed when loading.0
Weather factorse.g. Cargo shifting and damage to cargo due to vessel 
pitching and rolling in bad weather.0
OtherSuch as the overflow of ballast water into the cargo hold, 
stevedore rough handling, and breaking of ship’s crane wire.8Cargo properties e.g. Grain with high moisture content will mold and deteriorate. 0
Weighing /tally/
draft survey differenceCargo difference from the discrepancy between shore scale
and ship’s draft survey figure at loading an d/or discharging
port.9For continuous improvement of shipping quality, Wisdom has established procedures for handling 
cargo damage and assigned a loss prevention team under the Business & Operation Dept. to collect 
relevant information. We have also assigned employees to participate in seminars to strengthen their 
knowledge and ability in cargo loading safety. In addition, following the cargo circular issued by the P&I 
Clubs, the Business & Operation Dept. reminds seafarers to oversee the loading and unloading operation
of local stevedores assigned by charterers and shippers to achieve the goal of zero cargo deficiency 
rate and keep enhancing service quality.
To reduce cargo deficiency, through email, telephone, the Business & Operation Dept. provides a list 
of precautionary matters related to the cargo and the loading and unloading port to each ship. The 
information includes loading precautions, cargo moisture content test, cargo temperature monitoring, etc.
Also, the Loss Prevention Archive has been established in the Company’s internal Enterprise Information
Portal (EIP) system to collect international information on the prevention of cargo loss. Such information
is used by the Business & Operation Dept. for training. The department can also share the information 
with our vessels to strengthen the effectiveness of preventing cargo damage.
With the assistance of the P&I Clubs, Wisdom handles cargo damage according to the following 
procedures :
The Master notified the 
shipowners and P&I of a 
cargo deficiency
If a settlement cannot be 
reached, the P&I will 
assist in the subsequent 
legal proceedingThe shipowner instructs 
the Master to issue a 
Letter of Protest to the 
shipper
The shipowner reviews the
investigation report issued
by the P&I inspectorThe shipowner and P&I 
assign an surveyor to the 
site to to determine of 
extent of the deficiency
With the assistance of P&I,
the shipowner discusses 
the solution with the 
cargo owne r/claimant
44 45
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3Shipping Planning Management3.2.2 Monitoring Vessel Conditions
As from October 2017, to improve fleet management, Wisdom introduced a daily report and weather 
system developed by StormGeo, a weather routing company. It provides a user-friendly reporting 
system with debugging functions for our vessels. The system provides ship navigation efficiency 
reports to improve management quality.
Features of StormGeo daily report and weather system include:
■ Noon report system: Daily shipping data is recorded in a standard format, which is uploaded and
   stored in StormGeo’s cloud server.
■ Vessel tracking system: The Company keeps track of vessel position in real-time with the satellite
    and shore Automatic Identification System ( AIS).
■ Weather system: Provide real-time weather information according to each vessel’s location.
■ Vessel energy efficiency analysis: The system can identify the shipping routes included in the MRV
     regulations, further analyze navigation data, record greenhouse
     gas emissions, and automatically generate European Union
     Monitoring, Reporting, Verification ( MRV) reports to save manpower.
 3.3 Vessel Operation
  and Supply Chain Management
Wisdom Group usually orders newbuildings with Japanese shipyards and assigns consultants to oversee
the process. Classification societies will examine and confirm that the vessel specifications comply 
with international conventions and issue certificates during the construction stage. Vessels must 
obtain certificates issued by flag states before sailing.
After the launching of vessels, flag states and the classification societies will renew certificates regularly
to ensure seaworthiness. During operation, we need to cooperate with suppliers, crew manning agencies,
insurance companies, and dock yards to ensure vessel safety and efficiency for shipping.
To maintain operational efficiency of the Wisdom fleet, vessels of age over 15 years are listed as assets 
to be disposed of. We seek buyers in the second-hand market or sell them to shipbreakers for scrapping.Bank:
Facilities
Shipyard
Consulting company:
Appointed by shipowners to 
oversee the construction of 
new ships
Classification society:
Issue certification to vessels 
that comply with international 
conventions
Flag state:
Issue certificates
Vessel
operationSupplier:
Supply materials and spare parts
 Crew manning agency:
Recommend qualified seafarers
Dock yard:
Regular ship maintenance
Classification society:
Renew certificates regularly to 
ensure vessel seaworthiness
Insurance company:
Assist in handling operational 
disputes and claims
Flag state:
Renew certificates regularly
Second-hand
vessel market
Ship scrapping
46 47
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3Shipping Planning Management3.3.1 Shipbuilding Yard
The initial design of vessels would affect the sailing conditions of its life cycle. Therefore, Wisdom 
prioritizes to use Eco ships designed by Japanese shipyards. They are equipped with anti-fouling 
system, which not only improves operational efficiency but also reduces environment pollution. Due to 
long term partnership between Wisdom and Japanese shipyards, vessel prices and specifications are 
competitive. And shipyards are willing to fully communicate with Wisdom for new vessel designs and 
new regulations. Our cooperated shipbuilding yards also provide satisfactory service in newbuilding 
warranty, subsequent spare part delivery, and technician inspection.
As of the end of 2019, out of 13 shipbuilding companies that we collaborated with, 12 are from Japan 
and one is a Japanese-owned Chinese shipyard.
3.3.2 Classification Society
To ensure vessels registered in countries of IMO member states comply with international conventions, 
vessels must be inspected regularly by the classification societies authorized by a member state to 
ensure vessel safety and seaworthiness.
Sizable international classification societies jointly established the International Association of Classification
Societies (IACS) to sort out and formulate vessel construction regulations and inspection standards. 
Classification societies in cooperation with Wisdom are all members of IACS, information of which 
is as follows:3.3.3 Repair Dock Yard
The shipping routes of Wisdom span around the world. The dry-docking repair must discuss the time 
and location of vessel delivery and return with charterers in advance, and make appropriate arrangements
depending on whether the ship repair yard has certified technical quality. After selecting ship repair 
yards, Technical Dept. will continue to discuss repair schedules and methods through telephone and 
e-mail. After the completion of dry-docking, Technical Dept. will record and evaluate shipyard’s repairing
quality, progress control ability, engineering technology, communication, and cooperation of the shipyard.
If the shipyard and the engineering staff obtained relevant certificates and the repair quality meets the 
inspection standards of the classification society, they will be included in the prioritized list for future 
dry-docking partnerships.
In 2019, the Company cooperated with 9 dock yards, 6 yards in China, 2 in Turkey, and 1 in Singapore.
3.3.4 Supplier
The procurement of the Wisdom fleet will consider vessel’s requirement and on board material condition
reported by seafarers, as well as the shipping route designated by charterers. The Supply Dept. 
arranges supplies at ports around the world as needed.Overview and  business Name
DNV GLDNV GL was established in 2013 by the merger
of the two major classification societies, Det 
Norske Veritas ( DNV) and Germanischer Lloyd
(GL). It is currently the largest classification 
society with offices in over 100 countries.American Bureau
of Shipping ( ABS )ABS was established in New York, USA in 
1862, with over 200 offices in 70 countries 
around the world.
Lloyd’s Register ( LR) Founded in 1760, LR is the oldest classification
society, with offices in 75 countries around 
the world.
Nippon Kaiji
Kyokai (NK) Founded in 1899, NK currently accounts for 
20% of the tonnage of ships in the world, with 
over 130 offices in major ports around the world.BV was established in 1828, with offices in 140
countries around the world. It is a Euronext 
listed company and a constituent company of 
the  Euronext 100 ind.Bureau Veritas ( BV) Evaluation standards for dock yard
● IACS certification and International
 Management Certificate
● Proof of competency of shipyard
 engineers, such as welder certificateInternational certification
● Locations that facilitate the delivery and 
return for charterers
● The duration where the ship is emptyLocation
● Well-controlled dry-docking progress, 
 consistent with the schedule
● Timely return of vessels without affecting
 the next voyageDuration
● The quotation of the repair project is in line
 with our budgetPrice
48 49
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3Shipping Planning ManagementTo ensure supplier quality, price, credit, and capacity meets vessel’s requirement, the Company 
controls the quality, price, service, and delivery time of vessel purchases according to vessel requisition
material types. We require all suppliers to comply with the Company’s ethical management principles, 
conduct open and transparent transactions, and shall not directly or indirectly provide, promise, 
request, or accept any form of improper benefits to encourage suppliers to realize the Company’s 
corporate social responsibility philosophy. To fulfill our environmental protection philosophy, the Company
purchases vessel equipment locally as much as possible to reduce carbon emissions during transportation.
For vessel paints, chemicals, and lubricants, the Company cooperates with fixed suppliers to maintain 
stable prices and service quality. All suppliers are required to issue CSR reports to fulfill their corporate 
social responsibilities.
Evaluation standards for dock yard
The majority of the Wisdom fleets are dry bulk vessels, with shipping routes around the 
world. Most ports have established long–term partnerships with suppliers, while some of 
them are less convenient. In case of an urgent requirement to purchase vessel equipment, 
long-term partnership suppliers will be taken as priority. In ports without partner suppliers, 
qualified suppliers approved by the International Shipsuppliers & Services Association 
(ISSA ) will be selected to ensure supply quality. Suppliers registered on the ISSA website 
must comply with ISO standards ( e.g. ISO 9001 quality management system, ISO 14001 
environmental management system, ISO 45001 occupational safety and health management
syste m) and ethical standards ( e.g. prohibited sales below cost or at unreasonably low 
prices, prohibition of exaggerating false product information, prohibited forms of trade 
restraints–unlawful price fixing, defamation of competitors or false disparagement of their 
products, enticing away employees of competitor s).
In addition to the above evaluations, the Company’s “ New Vendor Evaluation For m” evaluates
external suppliers in the following order. Those qualified will be included in the supplier list.
Legality● Whether the Company is legally registere d/its reputation
 and market evaluation.
Supply 
capacity● Supply capacity of the por t/region, cargo inventory condition
 and scale of warehouse.
● Whether the products provided meet the Company’s quality
 requirement s/the degree of conformity.
● Whether they have sufficient supply experience.
Other● Supplier reputation in the industry.
● Whether the supplier or its production and service processes
 have obtained environmental certificates.Evaluation of Existing Suppliers
Suppliers are classified into five groups according to vessel requisition material types and 
the supplier contact list will be established. The Company inquiries supplier base on the 
supplier contact list and process procurement procedure. Subsequent evaluation will be 
carried out from time to time to keep track of the suppliers’ obligation performance, which 
serves as a reference for continuous cooperation. At present, we evaluate the suppliers’ 
obligation performance mainly through seafarers’ reports on their supply condition. The 
Company also distributes material evaluation forms from time to time to be filled in by 
seafarers to keep track of supply quality.
In 2019, there were 22 new suppliers approved by the Company. Wisdom will also take into 
account CSR factors when partnering with new suppliers. As of the end of 2019, eight of 
the top 20 suppliers in cooperation with Wisdom have published CSR Reports to disclose 
their contribution to the society and environment.
Professional 
competence● Able to accurately and quickly deliver clients’ problems 
with professional knowledge.
● Provide technical support and solutions.
● Whether the products or services provided meet the contract
 requirements.
Cooperation● Flexibility in facing changes in the order or delivery time.
● The flexibility to cooperate with the Company in providing
 solutions in the event of disputes.
● Accurate bills to reduce the correction rate.Performance● Whether the delivery, quantity, and time meet the order 
requirements.
● Delivery quality in line with the agreement between both 
parties reduces the return and refund rate.
● Whether improvement measures are taken when defected
 products are found.
Operating 
efficiency● Availability and accuracy of daily business transactions.
● Ability to adapt to emergency demands.
● Quotation competitiveness.
50 51
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3Shipping Planning Management4Sustainable Marine
 Management
4.1 Energy Management
4.2 Emissions Management
4.3 Purchase of Eco ships
4.4 Environmental Impact of the Transport Process
4.5 Environmental Regulation Compliance
Environmental impact of the transport process,
environmental regulation compliance
Corresponding Sustainable Development Goals ( SDG s)/
SDG 3 Good Health and Well-being
SDG 14 Life Below Water
Contribution of SDGs and Performance Highligh t/
● In accordance with Annex I of the International Convention for the Prevention
 of Pollution from Ships ( MARPO L)-Regulations for the Prevention of Pollution
 by Oil, procedures for the prevention of oil leakage are strictly implemented.
 No major oil pollution leakage incident occurred in 2019.
Purchase of Eco ships
Corresponding Sustainable Development Goals ( SDG s)/
SDG 12 Responsible Consumption and Production
Contribution of SDGs and Performance Highligh t/
● As of 2019, the Wisdom fleet purchased 52 Eco ships using ME engines, 
accounting for 40% of the entire fleet. By 2020, the number of ships with 
ME engines is expected to reach 59, accounting for 43% of the entire fleet.
Energy, emission, purchase of Eco ships
Corresponding Sustainable Development Goals ( SDG s)/
SDG 13 Climate Action
Contribution of SDGs and Performance Highligh t/
● Analyze shipping efficiency and record greenhouse gas emission through 
Fleet DSS system developed by StormGeo to improve management quality.52 53
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4Sustainable Marine Environment
 4.1 Energy Management
Management Approach
AIn terms of energy management, the Company improves energy efficiency
to strengthen the competitiveness of the fleet. We also reduce greenhouse
gas and other pollution emissions to reduce the impact on the environment.Purpose
BThe priority of the Company’s energy management policy is to comply with
international regulations, followed by eliminating old vessels with poor 
energy efficiency by continuous monitoring of energy consumption and 
emissions of the fleet. We will also invest in new energy-saving and
environment-friendly ships. During daily operations, the Company coordinates
with charterers to adjust shipping speed for energy-saving purposes, 
provided that the schedule and safety of the ship are not affected.Policy
CManagement
Approach1. Comply with MARPOL ANNEX VI.
2. Implement the ship energy efficiency management plan.
3. Continue to invest in Eco ships and eliminate old ships.Commitment
1. Continue to improve the Energy Efficiency Operational
 Indicator (EEOI).
2. Continue to increase the proportion of Eco ships in 
the fleet.Goals and 
Targets
ISM Dept.:
assign about 10 employees to oversee compliance with 
environmental regulations.
Technical Dept.:
assign four supervisors and about 30 employees to oversee
daily ship maintenance and repair.
Business & Operation Dept.:
assign four supervisors and about 30 employees to oversee
daily ship operation and fuel usage.Responsibility
& Resources
DIn 2019, the Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator ( EEOI) of the Wisdom
fleet was 19.51, an increase of approximately 10% compared to 2018. The 
proportion of Eco ships has also increased to 40%. Adjustment of the 
management approach is not needed for the time being.Evaluation
and
Adjustment of
Management
Policy4.1.1 Energy Consumption
The Wisdom fleet complies with the Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan ( SEEM P) issued by the 
IMO. We sail at optimized speeds for different voyages to reduce environmental pollution and energy 
costs for clients. The energy management plan implemented by the Wisdom fleet in accordance 
with SEEMP is as follows:
Real-time
communicationMaster
Shipping
agents● Close communication with shipping agents.
● Ensure real-time communication in case of abnormality and 
delay (bad weather or malfunctio n).
● Adjust vessel speed appropriately according to different 
weather and sea conditions.
● The Captain adjusts the most suitable vessel speed according
 to the docking schedule provided by shipping agents.
Vessel speed
optimizationMaster
Chief
Engineer● Seafarers are familiar with the “ vessel speed-engine 
speed-fuel consumption ” comparison table and the most 
suitable vessel speed.
● The-Master contacts the charterer to determine the speed 
requirements for the voyage.
● The Master communicates with the charterer and the owner 
on the feasibility of sailing at the most suitable vessel speed 
to improve energy efficiency.
Energy-saving 
actionMaster● Review the energy usage of the vessels to formulate energy-
 saving policies and raise energy-saving awareness of seafarers.
● Determine the list of equipment that can be turned off at berth.
● All seafarers review the results of energy-saving actions 
monthly.Measures DescriptionResponsible
person
Due to Wisdom’s business nature, energy usage is disclosed separately by the headquarters and fleet 
(divided into self-operated and time chartered voyage s). In particular, self-operated voyages are classified
as energy usage within the organization. In 2019, energy consumption was 265,275 GJ, and the intensity
was 2.39 G J/NM. As the time charter voyage is a charter business, so it is summarized as energy use 
outside the organization. In 2019, the energy consumption was 18,825,687 GJ, and the intensity is 2.99 
GJ/NM. Wisdom did not use renewable fuels in 2019.
54 55
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4Sustainable Marine Environment■Wisdom headquarters
Wisdom headquarters is a rented office building. In 2019, the electricity consumption was 226,145 kWh 
and fuel consumption of business vehicles was approximately 4,400 L. Electricity consumption from 
2017 to 2019 is as follows:●Time charter voyage
In 2019, the Wisdom fleet had 1,187 time charter voyages, traveling over 630 million nm. The statistics 
by type of energy are as follows:
■The Wisdom fleet
In 2019, 135 vessels of the Wisdom fleet were included in the statistics ( Note), with a total of 1,221 
voyages and approximately 6.4 million nm, which is equivalent to orbiting around the earth 296 times. 
Statistics were categorized into self-operated ( voyage charte r) voyages and time charter voyages 
by fuel type.
According to the IMO regulations on sulphur emissions from ships, with the exception of ships 
equipped with certified scrubber, starting from January 1, 2020, the sulphur content of ship fuels shall 
not exceed 0.5%. To implement such a regulation and ensure smooth transition to very-low sulphur fuel 
oil (VLSF O), the fleet cleaned the tanks in the second half of 2019. Some vessels have begun to use 
VLSFO in advance. Since January 1, 2020, the fleet will fully adopt VLSFO with sulphur content below 
0.5%. As of the end of 2019, the fleet has a ship equipped with scrubber, which can be operated lawfully
using fuels with sulphur content of over 0.5%.
Note:  Including Beagle VI, Mino, Pacific Venus, Daiwan Brave, Daiwan Ace, Mimasaka, which were the 
 6 vessels sold in that year, and Genius Star I, which is one of the vessels in the Bare Boat Hiring
 and Purchase ( BBH P). The passenger ship Pescadores is excluded.
●Self-operated (voyage charte r)
In 2019, the Wisdom fleet had 34 self-operated voyages, traveling over 111,000 nm. The statistics by 
fuel type are as follows:Year Electricity consumption Energy intensity ( GJ/m2) Electric joules Floor area
2017 222,339 800.4 GJ 2644 m20.303
2018 219,908 791.7 GJ 2644 m20.299
2019 226,145 814.1 GJ 2644 m20.308
Note:  The Kaohsiung office is not included in the statistics because we had difficulty separating the 
 electricity consumption.
Fuel oil HFO 6,142 6,386 Heavy Fuel Oil
VLSFO 0 0 Very Low Sulphur Fuel Oil ( 0.5%) Very Low Sulphur Fuel Oil
HSMDO 7 0 High Sulphur Marine Diesel Oil High Sulphur Marine Diesel Oil
High Sulphur Marine Gas Oil HSMGO 0 1 High Sulphur Marine Gas OilFuel type Full name Abbreviation
Low Sulphur Marine Diesel Oil LSMDO 366 0 Low Sulphur Marine Diesel Oil
Low Sulphur Marine Gas Oil LSMGO 8 239 Low Sulphur Marine Gas Oil
Total consumption ( ton) 6,523 6,626
Total sailing distance ( nm) 115,243 111,1802018Consumption (ton)
2019Fuel oil HFO 484,152 445,760 Heavy Fuel Oil
VLSFO 0 1,184 Very Low Sulphur Fuel Oil ( 0.5%) Very Low Sulphur Fuel Oil
HSMDO 2,711 521 High Sulphur Marine Diesel Oil High Sulphur Marine Diesel Oil
High Sulphur Marine Gas Oil HSMGO 1 1,024 High Sulphur Marine Gas OilFuel type Full name Abbreviation
Low Sulphur Marine Diesel Oil LSMDO 13,296 1,657 Low Sulphur Marine Diesel Oil
Low Sulphur Marine Gas Oil LSMGO 1,324 21,270 Low Sulphur Marine Gas Oil
Total consumption ( ton) 501,484 471,416
Total sailing distance ( nm) 6,673,213 6,294,3512018Consumption (ton)
2019
 4.2 Emissions Management
4.2.1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Wisdom’s greenhouse gases are mainly emissions from fuel combustion during navigation. Operational
boundaries are established by the concept of operational control. Scopes 1, 2, and 3 represent 
self-operated voyages, electricity consumption at the headquarters, and emissions by the chartered 
Wisdom fleet, respectively. 2019 greenhouse gas emissions are as following:
Item12018 2019 Unit Source of emission coefficient
Scope 12IMO MEPC.245 ( 66) 20,348 20,655
Sum of Scope 1 and 2 — 20,470 20,776
Scope 32MO MEPC.245 ( 66) 1,563,216 1,470,285Scope 2GHG coefficient for electricity 
published by Bureau of Energy3 122 121Tons of 
CO 2e
Note 1:  Scope 1 and Scope 3 emissions are estimated by the amount of fuel combustion, only carbon 
 dioxide is included. Scope 2 is calculated based on the electricity emission coefficient. Greenhouse
 gases include: carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide.
Note 2:  The emission coefficient of high sulphur fuel oil ( HSFO), low sulphur fuel oil ( LSFO), and other
 oils are 3.114, 3.151, and 3.206, respectively.
Note 3:  The electricity emission coefficient was 0.554kg CO 2/degree in 2018 and 0.533kg CO 2/degree
 in 2019.
56 57
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4Sustainable Marine Environment■EEOI
The calculation method of EEOI proposed by IMO is as follows:
EEOI = (tons of carbon dioxide emission by fuel combustio n)/
 (tons of cargo x nautical mile s)
Unit: tons of carbon dioxid e/tons-nautical miles
Year by year improvement — 10% -3.4% 10.9% 2.2%Fleet EEOI 24.06 19.51 21.68 20.96 23.54Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019The lower the EEOI, the better the operating performance. A fully loaded ship sailing at an economical 
speed is the best possible scenario. However, the speed still needs to be adjusted according to client 
needs. Wisdom reviews the EEOI of the fleet every half year. The EEOI of the fleet was 19.51 in 2019, 
showing an improvement of 10% compared with 21.68 in 2018.
4.2.2 Emission of Air Pollutants
Wisdom’s vessels have obtained Engine International Air Pollution Prevention ( EIAP P) and Technical 
File to manage nitrogen oxide. We also manage sulphur oxides and ozone-depleting substances in 
accordance with the SMS.
■Nitrogen oxide and sulphur oxide emissions
In 2019, the emission of sulphur oxides and nitrogen oxides of the Wisdom fleet ( including self-operated
voyages and time charter voyage s) was 289 tons and 50,778 tons, respectively. The emissions are 
estimated using the formula of BIMCO SHIPPING KPI.
■Ozone destroyer 
In response to regulatory requirements and to reduce the damage caused by shipping to the ozone 
layer, Wisdom’s newbuildings have been using environmentally friendly refrigerants in recent years. 
During the transition period of regulations, 12 ships using non-environmental refrigerants were built. In 
2019, 0.023 metric tons of ODS was generated from refrigerant charging.In the procurement of new vessels, Wisdom actively adopts new designs and equipment to achieve the 
goal of reducing GHG emissions and improving energy efficiency. We also comply with the increasingly 
stringent environmental regulations to create an industry-leading green fleet.50,7782019
50,8012018
49,612 2017
43,164NOx2016
2892019
3142018
2992017
259SOx2016Unit: Tons Unit: Tons
Note:  The calculation of sulphur oxide emissions
 is based on the oil sulphur content ( %) X
 coefficient 20 ( kg/ton) X oil consumption ( ton)Note:  The calculation formula for nitrogen oxide
 emissions is based on fuel consumption
 (ton) X coefficient 100 ( kg/ton)The bow is specially designed to reduce wave-making resistance
 Windlass, mooring winch, and hatch cover are driven by electric
 motors to reduce fuel consumption and pollution
Smooth coating is used on the outside shell paint to reduce sailing
resistance
Electronically-controlled timing of fuel injection system which is
more fuel efficient than traditional diesel engines is used to reduce
fuel consumption
Ballast water treatment system has been installed to reduce impact
on the marine environment
The propeller uses a DUET+Fin & MT-FAST & NCF system used on
propeller to improve propulsion efficiency
Exhaust gas boiler and ecomonizer are used to increase waste heat
recycling of the engine
The design of wind-receiving area on the superstructure in front of 
vessel accommodation is reduced to reduce wind resistance and
fuel consumption
12
34
578
691
23
4
5
7
86
9 4.3 Purchase of Eco ships
58 59
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4Sustainable Marine Environment■Energy Efficiency Design Index
The Energy Efficiency Design Index ( EED I) refers to the carbon emissions per ton mile of cargo 
carried by vessels. The index is closely related to engines, machinery energy efficiency and technologies,
and hull equipment. In addition, larger vessels generally have higher energy efficiency because of their 
large cargo capacity. The EEDI value is calculated according to the differences in vessel types and 
equipment. Each vessel is required to meet specific standards. The calculated standards are set out in 
the International Energy Efficiency Certificate ( IEEC).
Wisdom Marine has laid keels since 2013, while EEDI calculation and examination for newbuildings 
have begun since 2015. In recent years, the average EEDI of Wisdom Marine’s Panamax and Supramax 
fleets is approximately 10% to 20% better than the calculation standards. Handy has a lower cargo 
capacity because of its smaller size. Therefore, even with similar engines and equipment, its energy 
efficiency is lower than large vessels.By engine type, as of 2019, the Wisdom fleet has 52 new Eco ships equipped with ME engines, 
accounting for 40% of the fleet. Wisdom’s new vessels are built with the latest energy-saving designs 
and old vessels are replaced as appropriate. Vessels with ME engines are expected to reach 59 by 
2020, accounting for 43% of the fleet.
Vessels with ME engine Vessels with traditional engine
8826 37
8746
8452
7759
77
201604080120160
2017 2019 2018 202023%30%35% 40%43%Proportion of vessels with ME engines in the Wisdom fleet
Panamax 17 3.48 4.22 17.5%
Supramax 11 3.95 4.96 20.4%
Handy 21 6.00 6.68 10.2%Vessel type Number of vesselsActual average EEDI Standard average EEDI% above the standard
(Note) (Note)
Note:  Unit: CO 2(g)/ton nautical mile 4.4 Environmental Impact of the
  Transport Process
Management Approach
AThe purpose of the Company’s management of the environmental impact 
of the transportation process is to reduce emissions from fuel combustion
and other possible environmental impacts during the transportation process.Purpose
BTo reduce the impact on the environment during transportation, the
Company’s management policy aims to avoid oil spills and establish 
standard procedures in handling waste generated during transportation, 
such as sewage, ballast water, and domestic garbage. The Company also 
complies with international regulations to reduce the environmental 
impact of such waste. The Company has also purchased insurances to 
cover cleaning and compensation costs incurred in the event of an accident.Policy
CManagement
Approach1. Comply with the by-laws of the International Convention
 for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships ( MARPO L), 
the Ballast Water Management Convention, Bunker 
Convention (International Convention on Civil Liability 
for Bunker Oil Pollution Damag e). Conduct seafarer 
training and arrange regular reviews of international 
regulations by the Classification Society.
2. Purchase shipowner liability insurances and pollution 
cleaning insurances. Hire emergency teams in specific
 waters in accordance with regulations.
3. Arrange regular ship inspections and audits to ensure 
compliance with regulations.Commitment
1. Ensure compliance with regulations.
2. Zero violations.Goals and 
Targets
60 61
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4Sustainable Marine EnvironmentCManagement
ApproachISM Dept.:
assign about 10 employees Ensure compliance with 
environmental regulations.
Technical Dept.:
assign four supervisors and about 30 employees to oversee
daily ship maintenance and repair.
Business & Operation Dept.:
assign four supervisors and about 30 employees to oversee
daily ship operation and fuel usage.Responsibility
& Resources
DIn 2019, the Wisdom fleet did not have any ship pollution accidents and 
fulfilled the goal of zero violations. There is no need to adjust the current 
management policy.Evaluation
and
Adjustment of
Management
Policy4.4.1 Ballast Water Management
When ships are not loaded or the cargo amount is low, ballast water is discharged into the ballast tanks 
to adjust the trim and stabilize the vessel, evenly distribute the hull loading, and make sure the propeller
blade is sufficient to maintain propulsion efficiency. This is to ensure the stability and safety of the 
voyage. Ballast water is discharged when the cargo arrives at the loading port.
According to the estimation of IMO, the total amount of ballast water discharged by ships worldwide is 
approximately 3 to 5 billion tons per year. When ballast water from one water is discharged to another, 
marine organisms and pathogens in the original water are carried over, which may affect the ecology.
Illustration of the ballast water system
Local water is drawn during unloading, which is discharged into the 
water tank as ballast water. During the process, plankton and other tiny 
organisms are drawn into the tank.1Unloading
Local water is drawn at the departure port as ballast water
Ship water tanks without cargo will be fully filled to improve the sailing 
stability during navigation.2Empty cargo hold
Fill the water tank while sailing to stabilize the ship
Upon arrival at the port of destination, where cargo is loaded, ballast 
water and marine organisms from the place of departure are discharged 
to the port of destination, resulting in long-distance migration, which 
may destroy the local ecology.3Loading
Ballast water from the departure port is discharged at the destination port
The weight of a fully-loaded cargo hold is enough to increase its draft, 
during which the ballast tank does not need to be loaded with ballast 
water.4Fully-loaded cargo
The water tank is empty while sailing
62 63
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4Sustainable Marine EnvironmentInstall at the beginning of the period 93 50 74 
+installed on existing ships 15 14 15
+newbuildings 7 10 6
-sold 0 0 2Year 2020 2018 2019
Total installed 115 74 93
Fleet size 136 130 129
Installed proportion 85%  57%  72%Status Installed Under planningThe potential hazards brought by ballast water cannot be underestimated. Therefore, IMO proposed 
the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and Sediments 
(BWM) in 2004. After the Convention entered into force, vessels must install a Ballast Water Treatment 
System following the schedule specified in the Convention to remove microorganisms in ballast water 
and prevent microorganisms from migrating along with vessels. Vessels without a Ballast Water Treatment
System are required to exchange ballast water over 200 nautical miles from the shore and at a depth 
of over 200 meters. This is due to the fact that oceanic seawater has fewer sediments and pathogenic 
microorganisms compared with coastal seawater, which can reduce the damage caused by the migration
of microorganisms.
At present, the Ballast Water Treatment System can be divided into three types ( 1) Ultraviolet ( UV), 
(2) Electrolysis, and ( 3) Chemical.
As of 2019, excluding the two vessels sold out in 2019 which were fitted with Ballast Water Treatment 
System, Wisdom has a total of 93 vessels equipped with ballast water management systems, accounting
for 72% of the fleet. In the future, Wisdom will successively install Ballast Water Treatment System for 
the Wisdom fleet based on the docking schedules. The selection of Ballast Water Treatment System 
will depend on the technical performance, cost, power consumption, and space. Currently, the
aforementioned 3 types have all been adopted.
The installation plan of ballast water equipment is shown in the table below. It will be arranged according
to the docking schedule. 85% vessels of the Wisdom fleet are expected to be installed with Ballast 
Water Treatment System by the end of 2020.4.4.2 Wastewater and Waste Management
Shipping waste and wastewater management mainly comply with the MARPOL ANNEX V -Prevention of
Pollution by Garbage from Ships. The regulation seeks to reduce the amount of garbage and cargo 
residues being discharged into the sea from ships. It also prohibits the discharge of wash water and 
deck water containing substances that may damage the marine environment. The regulations are as 
follows:
IMO has implemented garbage disposal regulations for sailing in polar regions (latitude 66.5° or abov e) 
since January 1, 2017. Wisdom has incorporated new measures into the garbage management plan in 
accordance with the regulations. However, our current business does not pass through polar regions.Ballast water discharge 2018 2019
Total 18,946,444 19,160,171Charterer vessels 17,955,982 18,724,165Wisdom self-operated vessels 990,462 436,006Unit: tonsType Measures
Discharge regulations 
in non-special areasGeneral rules
Discharge regulations
in special areas*Unless otherwise specified, discharge of any garbage into the sea
is prohibited ( including plastic and cooking oi l)
● Detergents or additives that are not harmful to the marine
 environment
● The following garbage can be discharged as far away as possible
 from the nearest shore:
 1. Food waste processed by a crusher or grinder: more than three
  nautical miles away from the shore
 2. Unprocessed food waste: more than 12 nautical miles from
  the shore
 3. Cargo residues that cannot be recovered by common unloading
  methods: more than 12 nautical miles from the shore
Garbage unable to meet the following conditions shall not be 
discharged:
● Food waste: more than 12 nautical miles from the shore or the
 nearest ice shelf
● Washing water containing cargo residues or detergents: more
 than 12 nautical miles away from the shore
 1. Not harmful to the marine environment
 2. Port of departure and destination, and voyage are all located
  in special areas
 3. Insufficient receiving equipment at the port
* Special areas for garbage discharge: the Mediterranean area, the Baltic Sea, the Black Sea, the Red 
Sea, the Gulf area, the North Sea, the Antarctic Sea ( south of 60 degrees south latitud e), and the 
broad Caribbean Sea area ( including the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Se a)
64 65
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4Sustainable Marine EnvironmentYear 2018 2019
Water consumption 2,476 2,582
Note:  The Kaohsiung office is not included in
 the statistics because we had difficulty
 separating the water consumption.MARPOL has established management standards for wastewater such as oily wastewater, sewage, 
and grey water as follows:
Type of wastewater Measures
Sewage 
(drainage from toilets, medical
rooms, and cargo containing
living organisms, and 
domestic wastewate r) 
Grey water
(kitchen water, general 
domestic water such as used
in bathing, hand washing, 
laundry, etc .)Oily wastewaterAfter being treated by an Oily Water Separator, the oil content can
be reduced to below 15ppm before being discharged into the sea
● Crushed and disinfected wastewater: more than three nautical
 miles from the shore
● Wastewater that has not been crushed and disinfected: more than
 12 nautical miles from the shore
● Wastewater stored in storage tanks: shall not be discharged
 instantaneously and the speed shall not be lower than 4 knots
Not restrictedType Measures
Oily wastewaterThe oil content alarm ( 15ppm alar m) controls treated oily wastewater. If 
the treatment efficiency is not up to the standard, the pipeline will be 
immediately cut off. To ensure smooth operation of the oil content alarm, 
inspection is conducted every 5 years.
Grey waterAt present, MARPOL does not impose any restrictions on grey water 
discharge. In recent years, the Wisdom’s newbuildings are equipped with 
dedicated grey water storage tanks to store the grey water produced in 
the port. The stored grey water is then discharged into the sea at a 
proper distance from the shore after departure to avoid port pollution.SewageShips are equipped with Sewage Treatment Plants or dedicated sewage 
storage tanks.
■Waste disposal
The Wisdom fleet categorizes garbage into food waste, garbage to be recycled, plastic products, oily 
rags or other oily materials, and incineration ashes. Garbage bins are designed with different colors 
and standard logos to distinguish the type of garbage. Wisdom has also set up an area on the rear deck 
to collect garbage. Garbage is properly classified and disposed of in each cabin.
According to the regulations, garbage that must be disposed of onshore includes plastic garbage and 
other garbage that is not allowed to be discharged into the sea. Therefore, waste generated by the 
Wisdom fleet during the voyage is generally disposed of by a contractor. The total amount of waste 
collected onshore is shown in the table below. In 2019, the total amount of waste disposed of onshore 
was slightly lower than that in 2018, but remained at a similar level.
Unit: Cubic meter
Total 1,252 1,265 1,144Waste 2017 2018 2019
Cargo residue 6 29 No StatisticsPlastic garbage 616 521 507
Food waste 108 136 109
Domestic and office garbage 496 582 498
Incineration ashes 26 27 30■Wastewater treatment
●Wisdom headquarters
Wisdom headquarters is a rented office building. In 2019,
the water consumption was 2,582 degrees. The water 
consumption from 2018 to 2019 is as follows:
●The Wisdom fleet
Wisdom’s vessels are designed with a special drainage system, so that wastewater on the deck can be 
stored in the tank and disposed of as appropriate. Measures taken by the Wisdom fleet for the 
disposal of ship wastewater on other ships are as follows:
An oil spill is a major environmental issue in the shipping industry. Wisdom complies with the MARPOL 
ANNEX I-Regulations for the Prevention of Pollution by Oil and strictly implements the handling
procedures for the prevention of pollution by oil. In 2019, there were no major oil spills. The procedures 
for handling oil spills of the Wisdom fleet are as follows:
66 67
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4Sustainable Marine EnvironmentThe procedures for handling oil spills of the Wisdom fleet are as follows:
Report
● The Captain was informed of an oil spill from seafarers
● The Captain sounds the alarm for all seafarers to be prepared for an oil spill 
emergency
● The Captain informs maritime authorities, companies, and nearest port agencies
 of the coastal countries that may be affected
Summon a team
● The Company summons an emergency team to discuss measures to be
 implemented on board
● The Captain summons all seafarers and implements oil spill handling measures
 in accordance with the emergency arrangement form and the Company’s 
recommendations
Investigation
● As the situation stabilizes, the Captain and Chief Engineer investigate the cause
 of the accident. The investigation results, related improvements, and preventive
 measures are reported in accordance with the Company’s safety management
 regulations
Action
● Reduce oil spill:  adjust ballast water to transfer residual oil to other oil tanks.
  Clean oil spills on the deck with oil-absorbing cotton, wood
  chips, and rags
● Controlling the area of the oil spill:  Determine whether a second or third layer
    of oil boom is required, taking into account
    on-site weather factors, such as win waves,
    currents, and tides
● Recovery of oil spills: Dispose of used oil and recover oil spills in cooperation
   with oil pollution recovery organizations in coastal
   countries
Record
● The Captain records the time of occurrence, actions taken and the end time of
 the entire accident in the deck logbook
● Reports are prepared in accordance with the safety management regulations 
for review by relevant authorities 4.5 Environmental Regulation Compliance
Wisdom is committed to protecting the marine environment. The operation of the Wisdom fleet complies
with international conventions and regulations.
In 2018, a ship owned by Wisdom, the Daiwan Dolphin, inadvertently trespassed the New Zealand 
restricted area on October 25, 2018. Despite leaving the area immediately after receiving the warning 
from the local port, we were fined NZD14,000. After the incident, Wisdom reminded the fleet once 
again of the regulations of the restricted area. The Seaman Affairs Dept. also request our associated 
crew manning agency to strengthen their seafarer training to avoid similar incidents.
In 2019, the Wisdom fleet did not violate and strictly complied with international environmental regulations.
68 69
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4Sustainable Marine Environment5Talent Cultivation and
 Social Integration
5.1 Staff Composition and Benefit Care
5.2 Training and Occupational Safety
5.3 Social Participatio n──
 Examples of Maritime Rescue
Labor-employer relations
Corresponding Sustainable Development Goals ( SDG s)/
SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
Contribution of SDGs and Performance Highligh t/
● The total number of shore employees and seafarers has been growing year
 by year, with an increase of 4.6% and 1.2% in 2019 compared with 2018.
● In 2019, the reinstatement and retention rate of parental leave were 100%.
Corresponding Sustainable Development Goals ( SDG s)/
SDG 10 Reduce Inequalities
Contribution of SDGs and Performance Highligh t/
● Wisdom's talent selection and employee policies are equal and fair, regardless
 of race, gender, age, and social background.70 71
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5Talent Cultivation and Social Integration
Employee and seafarer performance table
Chapter
5.1.2Female 102
Total 160Male 58
Item Note 2019
99
153542018
90
143532017
Total number 
of employees
Chapter
5.1.4Insurance expense 118,089
Total $2,137,724Salary expense $1,899,199
Item Note 2019
110,223
$2,005,518$1,784,0162018
100,941
$1,699,472$1,498,116
Other employee 
benefit expenses52,745Pension expense 67,691
57,76453,515
52,83447,5812017
Employee 
benefit 
expenses 
(USD)
Chapter
5.2.3Female 2.30%
Total 1.58%Male 0.30%
Item Note 2019
2.08%
1.48%0.37%2018
3.48%
2.30%0.28%2017
Employee 
absence rate
Chapter
5.1.3Female 6.88%
Total 13.13%Male 6.25%
Item Note 2019
11.11%
16.34%5.23%2018
11.19%
17.48%6.29%2017
New
employee rateChapter
5.1.2Female 26
Total 53Male 27
Item Note 2019
25
51262018
23
48252017
Number of 
supervisors
Chapter
5.2.1Average hours 5.6Total hours 893
Item Note 2019
6.81,041 2018
3.85412017
Employee 
training
Chapter 5.2.4 9
Note 2019
92018
32017Number of seafarer complaints
Chapter
5.1.3Female 7.50%
Total 12.50%Male 5.00%
Item Note 2019
7.19%
13.73%6.54%2018
9.79%
18.18%8.39%2017
Employee 
turnover rate
Chapter
5.1.4Reinstatement rate 100%
Retention rate 100%Number of employees 5
Item Note 2019
100%
100%42018
100%
NA12017
Employee 
parental leaveChapter
5.1.2Vietnam 235
Total 2,574China 2,137
Item Note 2019
321
2,5431,9002018
231
2,4612,180
Taiwan 23Myanmar 164
27240
306
Bangladesh 15 55 142017
Number of 
seafarers Chapter
5.2.3Working days lost 13,328Number of deficiencies 21
Item Note 2019
1,744202018
1,55913
Injury severity rate 2,263.08Injury frequency 3.57
298.703.43
271.652.272017
Seafarer 
disabling 
injury
Wisdom consists of “ shore employee s” (Taipei headquarter and Kaohsiung branc h) and “ seafarers ,” 
both of which are valuable assets to us. Therefore, Wisdom has established sound policies for talent 
recruitment, benefit and care, cultivation and performance appraisal, occupational health and safety, 
and a smooth labor-management communication channel. The effectiveness of our employee and 
seafarer policies have been recognized by the new employee rate and turnover rate, the reinstatement 
and retention rate of parental leave, and disabling injuries and absence rate. With such policies, we aim 
to cultivate outstanding shipping talents for the sustainable development of Wisdom.72 73
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5Talent Cultivation and Social Integration
Management Approach
AThe Company’s labor-employment relationship policies seek to create a 
harmonious working environment. With our support, employees are able 
to work with peace of mind.Purpose
BThe Company’s labor-employment relationship policies primarily comply 
with the Labor Standards Act and related labor regulations to formulate 
the internal management system. We are also committed to building a 
smooth labor-management communication channel, under which we 
adjust corporate regulations. In addition, we increase employees’ sense of
belonging through the benefit system, including an annual salary guarantee,
three Chinese festival grants, maternity allowance, etc.Policy
CManagement
Approach1. Comply with labor laws, including the Labor Standards
 Act, Act of Gender Equality in Employment, Occupational
 Safety and Health Act, Sexual Harassment Prevention
 Act, Regulations of Leave-Taking of Workers. Formulate
 employee code of conduct, code of conduct for 
occupational safety and health, regulations for the 
prevention, complaint, and punishment of sexual 
harassment at the workplace.
2. Regular labor-management meetings are held every
 three months to discuss labor-management issues.
3. The employee management system is transparent and
 announced in the internal bulletin board.Commitment
Goals and 
TargetsShort-term goals:
1. Fully comply with labor acts and fulfill the goal of zero
 punishment throughout the year.
2. Establish a training system promoted by internal 
regulations and conduct training on labor rights, gender
 equality, and occupational safety and health.
Medium and long-term goals:
1. Reduce labor disputes.
2. Accumulate employees’ practical experience, develop 
their professions for sustainable corporate development.
CManagement
ApproachResponsibility
& Resources
Grievance
MechanismBoard of Directors:
approval of the management system, regulations, and 
employee compensation.
President:
review of the management system, regulations, and 
employee compensation.
Administration Dept.:
review and amendment of the management systems and 
regulations.
Department heads:
implementation of the management systems
and regulations.
1. The Human Resources Section under the Administration
 Dept. is the primary reporting channel for labor rights
 issues, which can also be discussed in the management
 meeting through department heads to seek appropriate
 solutions.
2. Labor conditions and labor benefits are matters 
discussed in the labor-management meeting. Labor 
representatives can put forward issues to be discussed
 in the meeting.
3. For infringement of personal rights, violation of labor 
contract, or damage to personal rights caused by other
 illegal reasons, employees shall file a complaint to the
 Human Resources Section by phone or email.
4. For sexual harassment at the workplace, employees 
should file a complaint to the sexual harassment 
prevention hotline or mailbox or the Human Resources
 Section.
Specific 
actions1. The employee grievance and handling procedures have
 been established this year to strengthen the employee
 grievance mechanism.
2. Conduct internal employee training to enhance their 
knowledge of the shipping industry.
DThe Company has been complying with the Labor Standards Act and related
regulations. Amendments were made to the internal regulations in response
to the regulations to reduce labor disputes and enhance employee rights. 
The current management policy of labor-employment relations is effective,
thus, adjustment is not needed for the time being.Evaluation
and
Adjustment of
Management
Policy74 75
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5Talent Cultivation and Social Integration
5.1.2 Diversified Employees and Seafarers
■Shore employees■Seafarers
143 153 160
2017 2018 2019200
150
100
50
0Total number of employees 5.1 Staff Composition and Benefit Care
5.1.1 Talent Recruitment
Shore
employeesWisdom’s recruitment is made mainly through advertisements on recruitment
websites. After preliminary screening, candidates will be notified of the first 
interview. Those who meet the recruitment criteria in the first stage will be 
invited to the second round of interview. If we decide to hire the candidate 
after the interview, we will arrange a registration date and send an employment
notice to the interviewee to complete the selection process.
SeafarersWisdom currently cooperates with 12 crew manning agencies to recruit seafarers.
The process is as follows:
● Class A seafarers: The Seaman Affairs Dept. selects resumes provided by
  the crew manning agency, which are submitted to each
  department to arrange interviews on their experience
  and operational capabilities. The Business & Operation
  Dept. will interview the Captain and Chief Officer while
  the Technical Dept. will interview the Chief Engineer.
  Only those who pass the interview will be hired.
● Class B seafarers: The Seaman Affairs Dept. screens resumes of all seafarer
  ranks required for ships of different sizes and selects
  seafarers who have licenses and meet the Company’s
  needs. Meetings will be arranged for successful
  candidates.
To increase the diversity of employees and avoid 
discrimination at the workplace, Wisdom adopts equal 
and fair treatment in talent selection and employee 
policies, regardless of race, gender, age, and social 
background. In terms of types of employment, there 
was one female part-time employee in the Taipei 
headquarters and Kaohsiung branch in 2017. There 
were no part-time employees in 2018 and 2019, the 
rest were full-time employees. The total number of 
employees has been growing year by year in response 
to the Company’s growth and business needs.37% Percentage 63% 35% 65% 36% 64%53 Total 90 143 54 99 153 58 102 160Employee composition statistics 2018 2017 2019
Distribution
of positionEducationAge 
distributionOver 60 7 0 7 9 0 9 8 1 9
50-59 3 2 5 3 2 5 3 1 4
40-49 7 8 15 9 10 19 9 11 20
30-39 27 55 82 24 55 79 26 54 80
20-29 9 25 34 9 32 41 12 35 47
Master 18 25 43 16 27 43 16 29 45
Bachelor’s degree 29 62 91 32 70 102 37 71 108
High school 6 3 9 6 2 8 5 2 7
Senior manager111 2 13 12 2 14 11 7 18
Intermediate manage r214 21 35 14 23 37 16 19 35
General employees 28 67 95 28 74 102 31 76 107
Total Total Total Femal Femal Femal Male Male Male Type Item
Note 1:  Senior manager: manager or above.
Note 2:  Intermediate manager: deputy section chief to deputy manager.
Class A seafarer 948 93 0 16 0 1057
Total 2180 231 6 30 14 2461Class B seafarer 1232 138 6 14 14 1404
Class A seafarer 924 83 0 17 0 1024
Total 1900 321 240 27 55 2543Class B seafarer 976 238 240 10 55 1519
Class A seafarer 1055 74 0 19 0 1148
Total 2137 235 164 23 15 2574Class B seafarer 1082 161 164 4 15 1426Seafarers nationality 
and position statisticsTotal China Vietnam Myanmar Taiwan Bangladesh
Year Position
2017
2018
201976 77
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5Talent Cultivation and Social Integration
5.1.3 New Employee and Turnover Rate
The new employee and turnover rate is an important indicator for evaluating employee policies. 
Through the establishment of the talent recruitment system, Wisdom provides a complete talent
cultivation mechanism and employee benefits, along with a healthy and safe workplace, to attract and 
retain outstanding talents in the shipping industry, so that our new employees and turnover rate can 
remain at a reasonable and healthy level.5.1.4 Benefit System
The benefit system is essential to maintain the quality of work and life. Wisdom provides diversified and 
comprehensive benefit policies and programs, so that employees and seafarers can work without 
worries, fully realized their professionalism, and live a better life.
■Shore employees
Item TypeNumber of
employeesNumber of
employeesNumber of
employeesPercentage Percentage Percentage Number and ratio
of new employees2018 2017 2019
Total new employees ( A) 27 31 31
Total number of employees ( C) 160 153 143
New employee rate ( A-B/C) 13.13% 16.34% 17.48%New employee turnover number ( B) 6 6 6Female
Gender56% 15 68% 21 65% 20
Male 44% 12 32% 10 35% 11
20-29
Age70% 19 61% 19 61% 19
30-39 15% 4 29% 9 23% 7
40-49 0% 0 3% 1 6% 2
50-59 4% 1 6% 2 6% 2
Over 60 11% 3 0% 0 3% 1
Item TypeNumber of
employeesNumber of
employeesNumber of
employeesPercentage Percentage PercentageNumber and ratio of
employee turnover2018 2017 2019
Total turnover of employees ( A) 20 21 26
Turnover rate ( A/B) 12.50% 13.73% 18.18%Total number employees ( B) 160 153 143Female
Gender60% 12 52% 11 54% 14
Male 40% 8 48% 10 46% 12
20-29
Age45% 9 38% 8 35% 9
30-39 25% 5 52% 11 42% 11
40-49 5% 1 10% 2 8% 2
50-59 5% 1 0% 0 8% 2
Over 60 20% 4 0% 0 8% 2Benefits Shore employees
1. Three days of paid personal leave and sick leave.
2. Employee stock option non-periodically.
3. New employees are guaranteed 15 months of annual salary. Another 
five-months bonus will be paid after three years of service.Our benefit
system surpasses 
regulations stipulated
in the Labor
Standards Act
Labor insurance, health insurance, life insurance ( employee group insurance,
accident insuranc e), medical insurance ( hospital medical insurance ), 
disability insurance ( occupational accident insuranc e).Insurance
Please refer to the parental leave chapter for details. Parental leave
We comply with the retirement system of the Labor Standards Act in 
principle. However, the Company may extend the employment of employees
that have reached their retirement age or hire them as consultants after 
evaluating our demand for manpower.Retirement system
Employee stock options non-periodically.Employee
stock options
Three days of paid personal leave and sick leave, along with annual leave,
pregnancy checkup, maternity leave, and paternity leave.Leave system
Three Chinese festival gift box, birthday gift, birthday cake, year-end lucky
draw.Bonu s/gifts
Sports allowance, maternity allowance, hospital allowance, marriage 
allowance, funeral allowance.Allowance
Year-end bonus, Dragon Boat Festival bonus, Mid-Autumn Festival bonus,
performance bonus, annual salary adjustment, new recruits’ guarantee 
15 months of annual salary, five months bonus after reaching three years 
of employment, and employee uniforms.Policy
Staff restaurant, library, breastfeeding room. Facilities
Employee medical check, 99 ( times) inter-bank withdrawal or remittance 
of the salary account free of charge each month.OtherAn annual entertainment allowance is issued to each department for 
entertainment activities.Entertainment78 79
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5Talent Cultivation and Social Integration
■Seafarer benefits
1. Recruitment of seafarers is conducted regularly. If the seafarers wish to
 disembark due to personal reasons, emergencies, and illnesses of a
 family member, the Company shows understanding and allows seafarers
 to disembark and return home as soon as possible.
2. Maintain a smooth reporting channel and listen to seafarers’ opinions. 
Upon receiving a complaint, the Company will immediately begin an 
investigation to solve their problems.
3. The health and safety of seafarers is always our first priority. Should there
 be a need for medical treatment, the Company will immediately request
 port agencies to make arrangements. In case the ship has already 
departed, we will sail to the nearest port or arrange a helicopter to 
provide medical treatment for seafarers as soon as possible.Humanized
management
Provide retention bonus, contract bonus, and year-of-service allowance to
encourage outstanding seafarers to continue their service at the Wisdom 
fleet and improve operational stability.BonusTo award seafarers for their hard work and increase their sense of belonging,
the Company provides food allowance during the New Year, Dragon Boat 
Festival, and Mid-Autumn Festival, so that seafarers can enjoy plentiful 
meals during festive seasons.Food allowance
for three Chinese 
festivalsBenefits Shore employees
■Parental leave
To allow employees to raise their children without any worries, and while striking a balance between the
responsibilities of work and family, Wisdom provides employees with diverse guarantee and protection 
measures for pregnancy, birth, and parenting, such as pregnancy checkup, maternity leave, paternity 
leave, parental leave, and birth allowances. Among these, the implementation of parental leave, as well
as the reinstatement and retention rate are important indicators of Wisdom’s employee maternity policy,
which are shown in the following table.■Employee Welfare Committee
The Employee Welfare Committee consists of eight representatives appointed by each department and 
chaired by the President. A secretary appointed by the President is responsible for meeting arrangements
and other related matters. The committee is primarily responsible for three Chinese festival gifts, 
monthly employee birthday bonus and gifts, maternity allowance, funeral allowance, hospitalization 
allowance, etc. The welfare expense in 2019 was NT$863,911. Due to the adjustment of the budget for 
the employee three Chinese festival gifts this year, the total amount decreased by 8.7% from 2018.
Femal Male Item Femal Male Femal MaleMaternity retention rate 2018 2017 2019
Number of employees taken parental leave in the year 5 0 4 0 1 0
Reinstatement rate ( B/A) 100% NA 100% NA 100% NA
Retention rate ( D/C ) 100% NA 100% NA NA NANumber of employees to be reinstated after parental 
leave in the year ( A)2 0 2 0 2 0
Number of employees reinstated after parental leave 
in the year ( B)2 0 2 0 2 0
Number of employees reinstated after parental leave 
in the previous year ( C)2 0 2 0 0 0
The number of employees reinstated after parental leave
in the previous year and were still working 12 months
after the reinstatement ( D)2 0 2 0 0 0Insurance expense 100,941 110,223 118,089
Pension expense 50,350 53,515 67,691(Note)
Other employee benefit expenses 52,834 57,764 52,745
Total $1,699,472 $2,005,518 $2,137,724Salary expense $1,498,116 $1,784,016 $1,899,199Employee benefit expenses 2018 2017 2019■Pension scheme
In accordance with the Labor Pension Act, the Company contributes no less than 6% of employees’ 
monthly salary to the labor pension scheme every month, which is deposited into the personal pension 
account set up by the Bureau of Labor Insurance. Other related matters are handled according to the 
regulations.
Given recognition of past services, the Company follows the Labor Standards Act and allocates 2% of 
total employee salary to employees’ pension reserve every month except for those who opt for the old 
labor pension scheme. The contributions are deposited in the name of the supervisory committee of 
workers’ retirement reserve fund into the Bank of Taiwan, which handles collection, custody, and
management of the fund.
The 2017, 2018, and 2019 employee benefit expenses are summarized in the table above. For details of 
the net defined benefit liabilities, pension expense, and pension provision, please refer to the 2019 
consolidated financial report.
Unit: USD
Note:  As the 2018 consolidated financial report updated the figures of 2017 pension expense, adjustments
 and amendments were made to be consistent with the report.80 81
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5Talent Cultivation and Social Integration
Proportion of trainee position and type of training in 2019:
■Seafarers
Seafarer training focuses on professional training at least 6 hours before boarding. They are categorized
into the general seafarers training and Captai n/Chief Enginee r/Chief Officer training based on new 
seafarer registration and training records, which are overseen by the management.
Matters for all seafarers are required to receive training and lectures:
■ Goals of the safety management system.
■ Safety and environmental policies.
■ Safety management system. ( including safety system regulations for thermal, high altitude, and outboard
 operations )
■ Seafarer responsibilities and procedures.
■ Security policies and security precautions. ( including staircase access control, security awareness,
 restricted areas, ship search, types and control of visitor identificatio n)
■ Medicine, drug, and alcohol control mechanism.
■ Garbage and sewage treatment procedures.
■ Procedures for the prevention of oil pollution.
Matters for which the Captain, Chief Engineer, and Chief Officer must receive special training courses:
■ Matters handled by Port State Control inspectors.
■ Ship maintenance plan and safety equipment inspection procedures.
■ Emergency drill plan and procedures.
■ Deficiency report procedures. 5.2 Training and Occupational Safety
5.2.1 Career Development and Training
■Shore employees
Wisdom attaches great importance to the development of employees’ professional and general skills. 
In addition to conducting internal training for new employees irregularly, where department heads are 
invited as lecturers to explain the operation and professional knowledge of each department, we also 
encourage employees to acquire professional knowledge from external institutions or invite external 
parties to give lectures for the development of professional knowledge and skills.
This year, to strengthen employee training, 14 professional maritime courses were held for new 
employees in December 2019. However, as the courses spanned to 2020, the total training hours were 
slightly reduced from 1,041 hours in 2018 to 893 hours in 2019. The number of trainees this year also 
increased, from 74 to 85. The average training hours was 5.6 hours. Despite a slight decrease compared
with 2018, the number of trainees increased by 9.
541.0 302.5 238.5 2017
1041.0 642.5 398.5 2018 Total training hours ( A)
893.0 530.0 363.0 2019
58 35 23 2017
74 47 27 2018 Total number of employees participated in the training ( B)
85 54 31 2019
143 90 53 2017
153 99 54 2018 Total number of employees ( C)
160 102 58 2019
41% 39% 43% 2017
48% 47% 50% 2018 Percentage of employees participated in the training ( B/C)
53% 53% 53% 2019
3.8 3.4 4.5 2017
6.8 6.5 7.4 2018 Average number of training hours per employee ( A/C)
5.6 5.2 6.3 2019Employee by gender Male Year Total FemalRegulatory updates 24 73.0 3.0Management skills 5 16.5 3.3
Senior manager Professional knowledge 13 67.5 5.2
Total 357 893.0 2.5Regulatory updates 3 9.0 3.0
Management skills 9 59.0 6.6Intermediate 
manager
Junior managerProfessional knowledge 26 70.0 2.7
Regulatory updates 52 127.0 2.4Management skills 10 36.0 3.6
General 
employeesProfessional knowledge 215 435.0 2.0PositionAverage 
training oursTotal training 
hoursNumber of 
participantsType of training
82 83
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5Talent Cultivation and Social Integration
Employee 
self-evaluation 
formInterview with 
department 
supervisorsReview by the 
Remuneration 
CommitteePromotion and 
personnel
transfers
The Chief
Officer and 
Chief Engineer
assess the 
performance
of seafarersReview
by the 
CaptainThe Captai n/
Chief Engineer
provide
recommendation
for the promotion
of seafarersReview
by the 
Seaman 
Affairs Dept. 
and related 
departmentsPromotion 
and
personnel 
transfers5.2.2 Performance appraisal and promotion
■Shore employees
The Administration Dept., Business & Operation Dept., Finance Dept., Technical Dept., Supply Dept., 
Seaman Affairs Dept., and ISM Dept. conduct employee self-assessment in December each year, 
which is submitted to department supervisors for review. Department supervisors will then conduct a 
face-to-face meeting with employees to fully understanding performances in the past year and listen 
to their suggestions for work, for which an assessment report will be filled out by supervisors.
The assessment includes appearance and etiquette, work attitude, language ability, professionalism, 
and comprehensive evaluation, which are graded A, B, C, and D. A is outstanding, B is good, C is bad, 
and D is poor, plus and minus signs shall be added as necessary. During the Remuneration Committee 
meeting held in January of the following year, promotion and salary adjustments will be made with 
reference to the performance appraisal and the recommendations of department supervisors, which 
will be effective as of the end of February or early March.
The staff performance appraisal procedures in the Taipei office is as follows:5.2.3 Occupational Health and Safety
■Employee health checkup
For employees to keep track of their health conditions, workloads are allocated according to the health 
condition of each employee. The Company provides NT$3,000 for general employees and NT$1,300 for 
new employees to conduct health checkups. From the beginning of 2018 to the end of 2019, a total of 
82 employees have conducted health checkups.
■Security measures for the Taipei headquarters and Kaohsiung branch
■ Establishment of safety measures, such as fire protection equipment, emergency evacuation routes,
 and alert systems.
■ Regular maintenance of elevators and fire-fighting facilities at office buildings, and strengthening of
 access control.
■ Safety equipment is in line with regulations. It is prohibited to pile things in hallways to keep them
 unobstructed.
■ In addition to labor insurance, employment insurance, and national health insurance required by the
 regulations, group life insurance, and accident insurance are purchased to protect our employees.
■Seafarer safety regulations and measures
The Company provides personal safety equipment to all seafarers, such as uniforms, safety shoes, and 
safety helmets. Gloves, safety ropes, goggles, earplugs, non-slip shoes, masks, etc. are also provided 
to protect seafarers against different working conditions.
Summary of the work safety regulations are as follows:■Seafarers
The Chief Officer or Chief Engineer will conduct performance appraisal on the deck and engine room 
teams when seafarers have reached three months of service and before they take leave for vacation, 
which will then be reviewed by the Captain. When seafarers request for promotion, in addition to the 
qualifications and practical experience required by regulations, a recommendation letter is also required.
Deck seafarers are recommended by the Captain and engine room seafarers are recommended by the 
Chief Engineer, subject to the approval by the Company.
Seafarer performance appraisal procedures are as follows:
● The Chief Officer and 1st Engineer shall conduct risk assessment according
 to work arrangements and risk control based on the identification results.
● Hold work meetings and inform seafarers of work arrangements and potential
 dangers in work.
● For high-risk operations ( confined spaces, high-altitude, and thermal 
operatio n), the Chief Officer and the 1st Engineer are responsible for 
inspections before work to control risks.
● Ensure seafarers are equipped with personal safety equipment and provide
 additional safety equipment according to work arrangements.Before
work
84 85
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5Talent Cultivation and Social Integration
■Employees and seafarer disabling injury rate
The disabling injury and absent rate are indicators for evaluating Wisdom’s occupational health and safety
policies and the implementation results. In 2017, 2018, and 2019, no disabling injuries occurred in the 
Taipei headquarters and Kaohsiung branch.
In 2019, there were 21 seafarer disabling injuries, which were handled appropriately as quickly as 
possible. The disabling injuries involved the death of two seafarers. According to the investigation, one 
of the death was a suicide case, where no other external force was involved. The death of the other 
seafarer was due to inappropriate positioning during operation of the derrick, he was fatally hit by the 
cargo hook as a result. The Company has reported the fleet of the case and given instructions to 
strengthen its operation risk assessment. In 2019, the total working hours increased compared with 
the previous year, mainly due to the increase in the number of seafarers hired by Wisdom. In addition, 
the increase in the number of lost days was because “ deat h” and “ permanent disabilit y” cases are 
recorded as 6,000 lost days. Please refer to the categorized statistics in the table below for the causes 
of disabling injuries. In response to the incidents of disabling injuries, the Company has strengthened 
the promotion of safety awareness. The Captain is instructed to strengthen supervision and pay more 
attention to the seafarers’ emotions and behaviors. Any abnormality identified shall be reported to the 
Company immediately.
Seafarer disabling injury statistics:
Wisdom formulates drills and training plans in accordance with the international convention SOLAS. 
There are 18 types of ship safety drills, including helicopter rescue, underwater rescue, confined space 
rescue, abandon-ship drills, power, engine, and equipment failures, ship collisions, cabin flooding, and 
others. With such safety drills, seafarers can familiarize themselves with emergency procedures in the 
event of accidents to minimize injuries and losses.
● The Boatswain and engineer on duty should always pay attention to the 
working conditions of seafarers.
● If any work deficiency is identified, the Boatswain and engineer on duty 
should immediately rectify seafarers and report to the Chief Officer and 
1st Engineer. The situation shall be reviewed subsequently in accordance 
with our management procedures.During 
work
● Recycling, inspection, and cleaning of safety equipment.
● Opened cabin hatches, manhole covers, and used mechanical equipment 
should be returned to their original positions.After 
work
Total working hours 5,889,312 5,838,728 5,739,052
Total accidents ( A) 19 20 13
Number of deaths ( B) 2 0 0
Number of disabling injuries ( A+B) 21 20 13
Lost days due to disabling injuries 13,328 1,744 1559
Disabling injury frequency13.57 3.43 2.27
Disabling injury severity22,263.08 298.70 271.65Employee benefit expenses 2018 2017 2019
Falls 9 9 2
2019 2018 2017
Trauma (slicin g/cuttin g/scratchin g/clampin g/pressin g/collisio n) 3 7 0
Burn 3 3 0
Exposure to hazardous substances 2 0 0
Other 2 1 11
Death 2 0 0
Total 21 20 13Type of injuryNumber of injuriesNote 1:  Disabling injury frequency = number of disabling injuries*1,000,00 0/total working hours.
Note 2:  Disabling injury frequency = lost days*1,000,00 0/total working hours.
Type of injury statistics:
Lifeboat drillLifeboat drill
Lifeboat drillLifeboat drill
Water hose spray test in a fire drillWater hose spray test in a fire drill
Fire drillFire drill
Lifeboat drillLifeboat drill
 Lifeboat drillLifeboat drill86 87
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5Talent Cultivation and Social Integration
Sick leave 1,806.0 301.0 1,603.0 315.0 1,137.5 234.5
Maternity leave 1,960.0 — 1,554.0 — 3,528.0 —
Menstrual leave 73.5 — 63.0 — 38.5 —
Leave for antenatal appointment 199.5 — 98.0 — 297.5 —
Total hours 4,039.0 310.0 3,318.0 315.0 5,001.5 234.5
Absence day1577.0 43.0 474.0 45.0 714.5 33.5
Total working day224820 14207 22,769 12,263 20,545 11,925
Absence rate32.30% 0.30% 2.08% 0.37% 3.48% 0.28%
1.58%  1.48% 2.30%2018 2017 2019
Femal Femal Femal Male Male Male■Employee absence rate
In 2019, Wisdom’s overall absence rate was 1.58%, an increase of 0.1% from 2018. The absence rate 
of female employees in the past three years was 1.71% to 3.20% higher than that of male employees. 
The main reason for the difference was that female employees have much higher maternity leave than men.
Note 1:  Absence days = total absent days of all employee s/7 (calculated at 7 working hours per da y).
Note 2:  Total working days should include absence days.
Note 3:  Absence rate = absent day s/total working days.
5.2.4 Communication Channels for
  Employees and Seafarers and Company Response
To safeguard the interests of employees and seafarers, and the efficiency and quality of ship operations,
the Company has established a smooth complaint channel.
■Shore employees
■ The Human Resources Division of the Administration Dept. is the primary complaint channel for issues
 regarding labor interests, and is responsible for formulating responding measures.
■ Find appropriate solutions through discussion between department supervisors in management meetings.
■ For workplace sexual harassment, a complaint hotline and mailbox are provided in accordance with
 the complaint and punishment mechanism of the Company's workplace sexual harassment prevention
 measures. Reported incidents will be handed over to the sexual harassment committee, where meetings
 will be held to deem punishment.
■ The Company regularly holds labor-management meetings. Labor representatives can also file
 complaints.
■Seafarers
According to Wisdom’s regulations for filing complaints, Seafarers intending to file a complaint during 
a voyage can first file a complaint with the department head, who shall then report to the supervisor. 
The supervisor should resolve the issue within five days. Detailed specifications of each department 
are as follows:●Deck department
 ■ Carpente r/Able Seama n/2nd seama n/Deck Cadet: Complaints are filed to the Boatswain and then
  to the Chief Officer.
 ■ Chief Cook:  Complaints are filed to the Chief Officer and then to the Captain.
 ■ Senior deck seafarers ( Chief Office r/2nd Office r/3rd Office r): Complaints are filed directly to
  the Captain.
●Engine department
 ■ Oil/Engine Cadet:  Complaints are filed to the No.1 Oiler and then to the Chief Engineer.
 ■ Senior engine seafarers ( 1st Enginee r/2nd Enginee r/3rd Enginee r/Electrical Enginee r):
  Complaints are filed directly to the Chief Engineer.
After filing a complaint according to the above procedures, if seafarers are not satisfied with the 
results, they can request an interview with the Captain, who will handle the complaint personally. All 
complaints must be recorded in detail and a copy of which should be submitted to the related seafarer. 
If a complaint cannot be resolved on the ship, it should be handed over to the Company. The Company 
must negotiate with the seafarer or its designated representative and respond within eight days.
In 2019, there were nine complaints, including hygiene issues of the Chief Cook, bonus distribution, 
ship meals, and improper management of the crew manning agency. After thorough investigation, the 
Company has taken appropriate measures. Derelict employees have been kicked off the ship, blacklisted,
and will never be hired again. The results of the complaints have been reported to the complainant.
 5.3 Social Participation ──
  Examples of Maritime Rescue
On February 25, 2018, when Wisdom's cargo ship Sakizaya Miracle completed bunkering and was 
waiting for departure from the Port Of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, the Ordinary Seaman on duty found someone
calling for help in the sea. The situation was immediately reported to the Master in accordance with the
International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) and rescue was undertaken. The seafarer 
threw a lifebuoy to the man, who was unfortunately unconscious and unable to be rescued. According 
to the daily safety drill training, the seafarer quickly put on safety equipment and went into the sea, 
rescuing the man and successfully saving a precious life. The rescued man was placed in the cabin and 
was given blankets and hot food until marine patrols took him to the shore safely.88 89
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 5Talent Cultivation and Social Integration
102-9 Supply chain 463.3 Vessel Operation and 
 Supply Chain
 Management102-3 Location of
 headquartersAbout this Report 2
102-4 Location of
 operations1.1 Company Profile 6102-1 Name of
 the organization1.1 Company Profile 6
102-2 Activities, brands,
 products,
 and ervices1.1 Company Profile 6
102-8 Information on
 employees and
 other workers1.1 Company Profile
5.1.2 Diversified
 Employees and 
 Seafarers6
76
102-10 Significant changes
 to the organization
 and its supply chainN/ANo material 
changes
102-14 Statement from
 senior
 decision-makerMessage from
the Chairman3102-11 Precautionary
 Principle or
 approach1.4 Risk Evaluation and
 Management16102-5 Ownership and
 legal form1.1 Company Profile 6
102-12 External initiatives N/ANo involvement in 
external initiatives
102-13 Membership of
 associations2.3 Participation in
 External Organizations30102-7 Scale of
 the organization 1.1 Company Profile 6102-6 Markets served 1.1 Company Profile 6
General DisclosureDisclosure GRI Standards Page Corresponding Chapter Omission
GRI 102:
General
Disclosures
2016GRI
Content Index
102-18 Governance
 structure1.3 Governance Structure 12
102-40 List of stakeholder
 groups2.1 Stakeholder
 Engagement23
102-44 Key topics and
 concerns raised2.2 Material Issues 24102-16 Values, principles,
 standards, and
 norms of behavior1.3.3 Code of Practice
 and Norms15
102-41 Collective
 bargaining
 agreementsN/ANo collective 
bargaining 
agreements
102-45 Entities included
 in the consolidated
 financial statements1.1 Company Profile 62.1 Stakeholder
 Engagement102-42 Identifying and
 selecting
 stakeholders23
2.2.4 Summary table of
 Concerned Issues
 and Communication102-43 Approach to
 stakeholder
 engagement28
2.2.3 Disclosure
 Boundaries of
 Material Topics102-46 Defining report
 content and
 topic Boundaries26
General DisclosureDisclosure GRI Standards Page Corresponding Chapter Omission
GRI 102:
General
Disclosures
2016
102-47 List of
 material topics2.2 Material Issues 24
102-48 Restatements of
 informationN/A
102-49 Changes
 in reportingN/A
102-51 Date of most
 recent reportAbout this Report 2
102-56 External assuranceNo external 
assurance102-53 Contact point for
 questions regarding
 the reportAbout this Report 2
102-54 Claims of 
 reporting in
  accordance with
  the GRI StandardsAbout this Report 2102-50 Reporting period About this Report 2
102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report 2
102-55 GRI content index 90 GRI Content Index90 91
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report GRI Content Index
103-1 Explanation of
 the material topic
 and its Boundary2.2.3 Disclosure
  Boundaries of
  Material Topics
5 Talent Cultivation and
 Social Integration26
74
103-2 The management
 approach and
 its components5 Talent Cultivation and
 Social Integration74
103-3 Evaluation of the
 management
 approach5 Talent Cultivation and
 Social Integration74
401-1 New employee 
 hires and employee
 turnover5.1.3 New Employee
 and Turnover Rate78
401-2 Benefits provided to
 full-time employees
 that are not provided
 to temporary or
 part-time employees5.1.4 Benefit System 79
401-3 Parental Leave 79 5.1.4 Benefit System305-4 GHG
 emissions intensity4.2.1 Greenhouse Gas 
 Emissions57302-3 Energy intensity 55 4.1.1 Use of Energy
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 
 GHG emissions4.2.1 Greenhouse Gas 
 Emissions57
305-2 Energy indirect
 (Scope 2) 
 GHG emissions4.2.1 Greenhouse Gas 
 Emissions57305-6 Emissions of
 ozone-depleting
 substances (ODS)4.2.2 Air Pollution
 Emissions58
305-7 Nitrogen oxide ( NOx) ,
 sulfur oxides ( SOx) ,
 and othe significant
 air emissions4.2.2 Air Pollution
 Emissions58
305-3 Other indirect
 (Scope 3) 
 GHG emissions4.2.1 Greenhouse Gas 
 Emissions57103-1 Explanation of
 the material topic
 and its Boundary2.2.3 Disclosure
 Boundaries of
 Material Topics
4.1 Energy Management26
54
103-2 The management
 approach and
 its components4.1 Energy Management 54
103-3 Evaluation of the
 management
 approach4.1 Energy Management 54
302-1 Energy Consumption
 within the
 Organization4.1.1 Use of Energy 55
302-2 Energy consumption
 outside of the
 organization4.1.1 Use of Energy 55103-1 Explanation of
 the material topic
 and its Boundary1.5 Economic Performance
2.2.3 Disclosure
  Boundaries of
  Material Topics18
26
103-2 The management
 approach and
 its components1.5 Economic Performance 18
103-3 Evaluation of the
 management
 approach1.5 Economic Performance 18
201-1 Direct economic
 value generated
 and distributed1.5 Economic Performance 18GRI 201:
Economic
Performance
2016
Material Issues
Economic Performance
Energy, Emissions103-1 Explanation of
 the material topic
 and its Boundary2.2.3 Disclosure
  Boundaries of
  Material Topics
4.4 Environmental Impact
 of the Transport Process26
26
103-2 The management
 approach and
 its components4.4 Environmental Impact
 of the Transport Process61
103-3 Evaluation of the
 management
 approach4.4 Environmental Impact
 of the Transport Process61
307-1 Non-compliance
 with environmental
 laws and regulations4.5 Environmental
 Regulation Complianc69Environmental Regulation ComplianceEnergy, EmissionsDisclosure GRI Standards Page Corresponding Chapter Omission
GRI 103:
Management
Approach
2016
GRI 103:
Management
Approach
2016
GRI 302:
Energy
2016
GRI 305:
Emissions
2016GRI 305:
Emissions
2016Disclosure GRI Standards Page Corresponding Chapter Omission
GRI 103:
Management
Approach
2016
GRI 307:
Environmental
Compliance
2016
Labor-employer Relations
GRI 103:
Management
Approach
2016
GRI 401:
Employment
201692 93
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report GRI Content Index
103-1 Explanation of
 the material topic
 and its Boundary2.2.3 Disclosure
 Boundaries of
 Material Topics
3.2 Cargo Shipping Quality26
42
103-2 The management
 approach and
 its components3.2 Cargo Shipping Quality 42
103-3 Evaluation of the
 management
 approach3.2 Cargo Shipping Quality 42
3.2 Cargo Shipping Quality 42Non-GRI
Topics103-1 Explanation of
 the material topic
 and its Boundary2.2.3 Disclosure
 Boundaries of
 Material Topics
4.1 Energy Management26
54
103-2 The management
 approach and
 its components4.1 Energy Management 54
103-3 Evaluation of the
 management
 approach4.1 Energy Management 54
4.3 Purchase of Eco Ships 59Non-GRI
Topics 4.4 Environmental Impact
 of the Transport Process61Non-GRI
TopicsGRI 103:
Management
Approach
2016
GRI 103:
Management
Approach
2016
GRI 103:
Management
Approach
2016Purchase of Eco ships
103-1 Explanation of
 the material topic
 and its Boundary2.2.3 Disclosure
 Boundaries of
 Material Topics
3.1 Maritime Safety26
34
103-2 The management
 approach and
 its components3.1 Maritime Safety 34
103-3 Evaluation of the
 management
 approach3.1 Maritime Safety 34
3.1 Maritime Safety 34Non-GRI
TopicsMaritime Safety
Cargo Shipping QualityDisclosure GRI Standards Page Corresponding Chapter Omission
Environmental Impact of the Transport ProcessDisclosure GRI Standards Page Corresponding Chapter Omission
103-1 Explanation of
 the material topic
 and its Boundary2.2.3 Disclosure
  Boundaries of
  Material Topics
4.4 Environmental Impact
 of the Transport Process26
61
103-2 The management
 approach and
 its components4.4 Environmental Impact
 of the Transport Process61
103-3 Evaluation of the
 management
 approach4.4 Environmental Impact
 of the Transport Process61
94 95
2019 Wisdom Marine Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report GRI Content Index
2019
Wisdom Marine Group
Corporate Social Responsibility Report