Listening and 
responding
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC  
Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19This is Morrisons 13th Corporate 
Responsibility Report. It reports on our corporate responsibility programme progress and activity from the previous financial year.
This Report should be read together with our  
2018/19 Annual Report and Financial Statements,  
which can be found at: 
www.morrisons-corporate.com/investor-centre
Selected KPIs within this year’s Report have 
been independently assured by our auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP using ISAE 3000 (revised). The assurance statement can be found  
on page 41 of this Report.
Why corporate responsibility matters  
to Morrisons 
It’s about doing the right thing for our customers, 
colleagues, suppliers, shareholders, society and the environment. Doing so ensures we remain an efficient and competitive business.
Creating a meaningful corporate responsibility 
programme ensures transparency amongst our stakeholders and adds value to our business. 
If you would like to comment on our corporate 
responsibility programme, the report itself or any of the issues we highlight, please drop us a line at cr@morrisonsplc.co.ukOur focus areasAbout this report
Strategy and approach
About this report 2
We are food makers and shopkeepers 3
Farm to fork sustainability 4
Chief Executive introduction 5
2018/19 customer insight survey 6
What we’ve achieved in 2018/19 8
Understanding our changing world 9
Our corporate responsibility strategy 10
Working towards a global agenda 11
Our focus areas
Supporting British farmers 12
Ensuring food safety, quality and provenance 14
Reducing, reusing and recycling the plastic we use 16
Reducing operational general waste and carbon emissions 18
Reducing food waste 20
Looking after our colleagues 22
Sourcing responsibly 24
Ensuring fair working conditions for workers in our  
supply chain26
Making it easier for our customers to live healthier lives 28
Making a positive difference to the communities we serve 30
Why it matters to Morrisons
Ongoing engagement with our stakeholders 32
Embedding sustainability into our business 33
Performance summary
Our focus areas in detail 34
Assurance 
Assurance statement 41
KPIs assured and basis of preparation 43Supporting  
British farmers
p12Authenticity,  
provenance and safety
p14Reducing waste  
and emissions
p18
Reducing  
food waste
p20Our  
colleagues
p22Sourcing  
responsibly
p24Supply chain working  
conditions
p26
Healthy  
eating
p28 
Communities
p30Reducing, reusing and 
recycling plastic
p16
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
2
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary AssuranceWe are a British born and bred,  
value-led grocer. We have grown 
from a market stall to the UK’s fourth 
largest supermarket group with 
494 stores. We’re both food makers 
and shopkeepers, which makes us 
different from our competitors.
Our focus on fresh food is supported by our  
‘farm to fork’ business model. We buy many of our 
fresh products directly from farmers and fishermen, 
process through our own manufacturing sites and 
abattoirs and distribute through our own network, 
the only British supermarket to do so. This gives us 
more control over the provenance and quality of 
the food we sell in our stores. We have more skilled 
specialists on hand to prepare fresh food in store 
than any other retailer, with over 9,000 fully trained 
craftspeople including butchers, bakers, fishmongers 
and cheesemongers.
Every week, 12 million customers pass through  
our doors and shop online, and more than 100,000 
colleagues across the business work hard each day 
to deliver a great service. Our aim is to give our 
customers more of what matters to them, offering 
great quality food at low prices.494
stores
100,000+
colleagues9
distribution  
centres4.8%
LFL  
sales increase18
manufacturing 
sites
1899Established in
9,000
trained butchers, bakers  
and fishmongersunderlying profit  
before tax£406 mWe are foodmakers and shopkeepers
12m
customers in store  
and online each week
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
3
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary AssuranceFarm to fork sustainability
How we create value
Our skilled butchers, bakers, cheesemongers 
and fishmongers provide a unique Market Street experience for our customers, selling fresh British produce on our counters. 
The specialists are on hand to advise customers 
on how best to store, prepare and cook the food we sell  and will prepare only the amount that customers need, which helps to reduce food waste in the home. 
Our store colleagues reflect the local 
community we serve, with 75% of colleagues from the local area. We support and train our colleagues to ensure they provide the best customer service and can build fulfilling careers within the organisation. Our colleagues work hard to minimise waste every day. It makes commercial sense and  
we know that our customers really care  
about this too. 
At the outset of any product design, detailed 
consideration is given to the lifecycle of a product and its packaging so that it is fit for purpose but also minimises materials, uses recycled content where possible and can be easily recycled. 
We provide recycling facilities for our 
customers at the front of our stores and car parks and provide information on packaging  
to customers on how to reduce food waste  
in the home. 
Any edible unsold food within our stores 
and sites is effectively redistributed to our partner organisations.Products are moved through our national distribution network of 1,450 trailers from manufacturing sites to our stores. 
Our stores are serviced by seven regional and 
one national distribution centres. 
Through the use of state-of-the-art technology 
in our lorries, route optimisation, increasing trailer size and planning we are able to reduce miles and the environmental impact of our products and services, as well as getting fresh products into our stores faster. We own 18 fresh food manufacturing sites across the UK, including our own abattoirs, where 8,000 skilled colleagues process and create the fresh products our customers  
see on our shelves. 
Owning our own manufacturing sites gives 
us greater control of waste, makes the supply chain shorter and creates efficiencies, minimising our environmental impact and ensuring authenticity, provenance and safety of our products.We work with thousands of suppliers both in the UK and internationally to source food commodities as well as finished products. 
We set high standards for the products we 
buy to ensure they are sourced and produced responsibly, to a high quality with safety always in mind. 
We’re committed to buying fresh British 
produce where possible and directly from  
UK farmers and suppliers, contributing to the UK economy. We work with our suppliers to keep them sustainable. 
Through our Wonky Veg range, we’ve relaxed 
cosmetic specifications on fresh fruit and vegetables helping suppliers to reduce  
on-farm waste. Our value chain
Buy Make Move Sell ConsumeWhat we rely on
NATURAL RESOURCES   FINANC IAL RESOURCES   PHYSIC AL RESOURCES   OUR EXPER TS  OUR PEOP LE  OUR SUPP LIERS   OUR COMM UNITIES
of store colleagues  
are from the  
local area75%
We own 18 fresh food 
manufacturing sites 
across the UK18
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
4
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Customer insight survey Chief Executive introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGsOur value chainThe Morrisons turnaround is well on track with 
growth in sales, profit and customer satisfaction. This is underpinned by our core purpose: to make  
and provide food we’re all proud of, where everyone’s effort is worthwhile, so more and more people can afford to enjoy eating well. 
This core purpose guides everything we do. It is 
integral to our Corporate Responsibility programme, which is responding to the issues that matter most  
to our customers. 
Our annual customer insight survey provides  
valuable feedback on corporate responsibility issues 
and helps us to shape our approach. The top three issues are unchanged from last year and demonstrate the fundamental and enduring importance to our customers of food safety, supporting British farmers, and reducing plastic waste. The full results of this survey can be found on page 6 of this Report. 
Food safety is our paramount concern. Being both 
a fresh food manufacturer and a retailer means we have more control and traceability of our supply chain than our competitors. We’re driving continuous improvements in food safety across our manufacturing operations through our Culture of Excellence audit programme, which has now completed its third year.We remain committed to providing clear and  
accurate labelling to our customers so they can make informed choices that are right for them. We know just how important this is for customers who wish to avoid certain ingredients, which is why we have gone beyond current legislative requirements to ensure that all of our in-store produced products that  
are pre-packed contain allergy advice on the label. We’ve also developed new eLearning allergen modules for all colleagues in store. 
‘Reducing, recycling and reusing plastic’ now forms 
one of our ten key focus areas for the Corporate Responsibility programme. Our ambition is to be  
a leading corporate in the fight to keep plastic in the economy and out of the environment, to be a beacon of good practice for other companies, and to help more and more customers live their lives with less reliance on plastic. 
Over the last year, 9,000 tonnes of Morrisons  
branded plastic packaging has been eliminated  
or made widely recyclable. We removed 174m plastic 
produce bags for loose produce, replacing them with paper bags. We also introduced a paper carrier bag option to stores. This bag is sustainably sourced, made in the UK and has a lower carbon footprint than our reusable plastic bags. We estimate this move will avoid an estimated 1,300 tonnes of plastic a year. 
We continue to be British farming’s biggest direct 
supermarket customer. We sell 100% Morrisons branded fresh meat, milk and eggs in our stores. Our commitment to British farming was recognised at the 2018 Food and Farming Awards where we were awarded Retailer of the Year. Our innovative For Farmers range, where part of the retail price goes directly back to farmers, has generated an additional £12m income for farmers since it launched in 2015.
In our stores, we continue to develop ‘Morrisons 
Makes it’ as a standalone brand, which is authentically British fresh food, made by our skilled team of food makers. We have ‘Morrisons Makes it’ fresh items across all of Market Street and have expanded our range of locally sourced products with another 140 local foodmakers selling their products in our stores. 
Listening and responding doesn’t stop at our survey. 
It’s what we do everyday as we continue to offer great value and quality products to our customers. As a result, we have developed new and popular ranges over the last year such as our Too Good to Waste boxes, V Taste vegan range and Little Kitchen, our healthy and balanced children’s ready meals. 
Thank you once again to all colleagues for making 
this happen. 
David Potts
Chief Executive
Listening and learning from our customers 
David Potts 
Chief Executive“Listening and responding  
is what we do everyday as  
we continue to offer great 
value and quality products  
to our customers.”
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
5
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Our value chain Customer insight survey Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGsChief Executive introductionListening to our customers 
Listening and responding is central in helping to determine where we focus  
our responsible business work. For the fourth year running we asked our customers for feedback.
ENSURING FOOD SAFETY
SUPPORTING BRITISH FARMERS
REDUCING PLASTIC PACKAGING
ENSURING ANIMAL WELFARE
SELLING BRITISH PRODUCTS
TRADING FAIRLY WITH SUPPLIERS
SELLING LOCALLY SOURCED PRODUCTSREDUCING PACKAGING WASTE
REDUCING FOOD WASTE
LOOKING AFTER EMPLOYEESWe ask for feedback from our customers 
on various responsible business issues. In early 2019, 4,000 customers were asked to complete our online survey.
In the exercise, customers were shown several  
sets of statements and with each set they are asked 
to select the options they consider to be the most and least important. This provides each statement with a score out of 100 based on its importance.
This year, we reviewed the list of issues in our  
survey to ensure that we are using customer friendly 
language. We also included three new issues: Helping farmers to reduce their emissions; selling vegan and plant-based products; and providing accessible environments for customers with additional needs.
The top 10 issues most important to our customers 
have remained relatively consistent with our 2017/18 survey results. Ensuring animal welfare and selling British products have moved up two places and trading fairly with suppliers moving up three places.The top 10 issues that matter most to our customers
1
=2
5
7
9=2
4
6
8
10“ The paper bags have been 
a great in
troduction, keep it up 
and continue decreasing the amount of unnecessary plastic particularly for fruit and veg.”“
 Maintain a
nd improve where 
possible all present standards, keeping to honest labelling and environmental health standards.”
Morrisons customer Morrisons customer
0  105  2101
2
4,000
regular customers  
were surveyed  
(7,001 2017/18)
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
6
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary AssuranceOur value chain Customer insight survey Chief Executive introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGsListening to our customers 
The top issues
104
8=2
6 9=2 5
71
Happy, engaged colleagues provide great 
customer service 
Customer service is driven by our 
colleagues. Providing them with the right training and support, treating them fairly and with respect has a positive impact on their engagement and their interaction with customers and ultimately the service they give our customers. Ensuring good food is never wasted
Customers want us to reduce food waste 
and where possible redistribute edible surplus to those that need it. They want us to work with our suppliers to help them reduce farm waste, through process improvement or by selling new products such as ‘Wonky Veg’ . They are increasingly interested in ‘nose-to-tail’ eating. They also want us to help them reduce food waste  
in their homes.Using only what is necessary and recycling
Customers want it to be fit for purpose, 
recyclable and made from recycled material wherever possible. They want us to reduce the amount of packaging waste in our operations and in their homes. Supporting the local communities  
and businesses surrounding our stores
Our customers want us to stock their 
favourite local products and brands. They want us to source as locally as possible and give them the option to purchase products which support small suppliers and the local economy. Helping customers to live with less plastic
Customers want to see less plastic in our 
stores and on our products. They continue to be concerned with the environmental and health impacts  
of plastics and  
want us to do more. 
A good working relationship
Customers want to know we are acting  
as a responsible retailer, treating suppliers 
fairly and with respect. They expect us to pay a fair price for the products we buy and ensure a good working relationship. Robust processes and clear labelling
Trust is really important to our customers. 
They expect us to be transparent  
with the products we sell, producing them to the highest standards. Following the recent Pret a Manger  
case on allergen labelling, customers rightly want clear and transparent labelling. They also want clear traceability back to source. High standards within our supply chain
There has been increased scrutiny of 
practices in the meat and dairy sector in recent years. Our customers want to know that the meat and dairy products they buy have been produced to high animal welfare standards, where all farm animals are well cared for and treated with compassion throughout their lives. They are also concerned with animal testing on products. Working closely and supporting their  
businesses
Our customers are passionate about 
supporting British farming. They believe 
in the high production standards 
of British products, they want to 
support the local economy, reduce 
food miles and keep supply chains 
short and transparent. They care 
about British farming and they want 
the British farming industry to thrive. Increasing the amount of British products we offer
By buying homegrown products    
customers are reassured that it has been produced to high standards and they are supporting the British economy. 
LOOKING AFTER  
EMPLOYEESENSURING  
ANIMAL WELFARE
REDUCING  
FOOD WASTEREDUCING  
PACKAGING WASTESELLING LOCALLY  
SOURCED PRODUCTSREDUCING  
PLASTIC PACKAGINGSUPPORTING  
BRITISH FARMERSENSURING  
FOOD SAFETYSELLING  
BRITISH PRODUCTS
TRADING FAIRLY  
WITH SUPPLIERS
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
7
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary AssuranceOur value chain Customer insight survey Chief Executive introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGs
£5.5 m
donated to local causes through 
Morrisons Foundation  
(2017/18: £10m)1,300 
tonnes of plastic saved                                  
following the launch of our paper      
carrier bag
2.45 bn 
calories removed  
from Morrisons branded  
products3.4 m
meals donated to charities and 
community groups through  
surplus food redistribution
(2017/18: 1.5m meals) 45 % 
reduction in operational  
carbon emissions  
(2005 baseline)
£3.6 m
raised for charity partner  
CLIC Sargent  
(2017/18: £3m)£12 m+
given to farmers  
through For Farmers range  
since launch in 2015
81% 
recyclable  
Morrisons branded  
plastic packaging100 %
fresh British Morrisons branded  
meat, milk and eggs  
sold in our stores 176 m 
plastic produce             
bags removed               
from stores 
9,000
tonnes of plastic  
removed or made widely  
recyclable from  
Morrisons branded  
productsRetailer  
of the  
Year
Food and Farming  
AwardsCIWF  
Good Egg  
Award
for our free range  
egg commitmentV Taste 
vegan range  
launched
140 
new local food makers  
selling products  
in our storesWhat we’ve achieved in 2018/19
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
8
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Our value chain Customer insight survey Chief Executive introduction Global context Strategy The SDGsHighlightsIt’s important that we recognise  
and respond to the global challenges and trends that society faces. 
From climate change and the finite resources of our 
planet upon which we all depend on, to the human rights of workers who produce the products we sell, we understand the role we can play as a responsible business to respond to these challenges. Understanding our changing world
Regulatory requirements
The EU Non Financial Reporting Directive requires companies to disclose relevant, useful information that is necessary to understand their development, performance, position and the impact of their activity. These include environmental; social and employee matters; respect of human rights; and anti-corruption and bribery matters. The Modern Slavery Act requires commercial organisations supplying goods or services to prepare and publish an annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. 
Business impact: 
• Financi
al repercussions
• Reputat
ional impact
• Stakeholder
 scrutiny and engagementClimate change and  
resource scarcity
Climate change is a direct result of human 
activity, from population growth, demand and consumption patterns increasing emissions into the atmosphere. It is already affecting the way we live today, we see this through severe weather patterns, rising temperatures and sea levels causing food and resource scarcity and devastation to communities.  
Business impact: 
• Security
 of food supply
• Loss of foo
d quality through changing climate patterns
• Food pric
e inflation
• Loss of liv
elihoods for Morrisons suppliers
• New marke
ts
• Changing b
uying habitsPopulation growth  
and urbanisation 
The world’s population is expected to reach over 
nine billion people by 2050. It is also predicted we will see a shift in the way the world lives, moving from rural areas in favour of urban. These changes could have potential impacts environmentally, socially and economically.
Business impact: 
• Food secur
ity 
• Increas
ed agricultural production
• Industria
l adaptation
• Pressure o
n finite resources
• Price inc
reases
• Greater n
umber of customers
• Increas
e in store openings
Data security 
Customer and colleague privacy is extremely 
important. They rightly want to know exactly what kind of information we collect and how it’s used. It’s important that we are transparent about the data we keep, and the policies and procedures we have in place in order to ensure information security. 
Business impact: 
• Legal reper
cussions
• Reputat
ional impact
• Poorly man
aged management systems
• Cost imp
lications
• Robust ma
nagement systemsDemand for responsible goods 
Customer awareness and demand for responsibly 
made goods continues to grow. It’s our responsibility to ensure that the decisions we take about how we operate and where we buy from are made with care. It’s about taking responsibility for as many stages of the production and supply chain as we are able to control or influence. 
Business impact: 
• Poorly ma
naged supply chains and 
management systems
• Illegal
 activity
• Securit
y of supply
• Poor quali
ty goods
• Greater tr
ansparencyIncreasing transparency 
Our stakeholders rightly expect us to be 
transparent about how we operate. They want access to our policies on topical issues and information on how strategic decisions are made and how we are responding to business challenges.
Business impact: 
• Reputat
ional impact
• Stakeholder
 scrutiny and engagement
• Change i
n productivityHuman rights 
As a business, we are accountable for ensuring 
that the human rights of the people that make and sell our products are protected. This includes fair working conditions, health and safety in the workplace, equal treatment and respect for the diverse communities in which we operate. 
Business impact: 
• Reputat
ional impact
• Exploit
ation of vulnerable workers in our 
supply chain 
• Liabili
ty for illegal activity
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
9
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Our value chain Customer insight survey Chief Executive introduction Highlights Strategy The SDGsGlobal contextWorking towards a global agenda 
Collaboration is the key to ensuring sustainable change.
Why is it important?
The UN Sustainable Development Goals officially 
came into force in 2015. The Goals universally apply to all and aim to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities, and tackle climate change on a global scale. These Goals can’t be realised without participation from all sectors including business. We recognise the importance of these Goals and the true value of collaboration in order to create change. 
At Morrisons, we want to address these global 
challenges in a meaningful way that is relevant and aligned to our business strategy. We’ve reviewed our focus areas and ensured we are aligned to as many Goals as possible. As the use of the Goals develops we will adapt and build connections so that we stay connected to best practice where possible.Our focus areas
• Communities
• Our colle
aguesOur focus areas
• Helping British suppliers
• Sourcing
 responsibly
Our focus areas
• Reduce carbon and waste 
Our focus areas
• Supplier working conditions
• Our colle
agues
Our focus areas
• Communities
• Our colle
agues
• Supplier wo
rking conditionsOur focus areas
• Our colleaguesOur focus areas
• Authenticity, provenance 
and safe
ty
• Our colle
agues
• Healthy c
ustomersOur focus areas
• Helping British suppliers
• Sourcing
 responsibly
• Healthy c
ustomers
• Communi
ties
Our focus areas
• Reduce carbon and waste
• Reduce f
ood wasteOur focus areas
• Our colleaguesOur focus areas
• Helping British suppliers
• Sourcing
 responsibly
Our focus areas
• Healthy customers
• Reduce ca
rbon and waste
• Reduce f
ood waste
• Sourcing
 responsibly
Our focus areas
• Helping British suppliers
• Sourcing
 responsibly
• Reduce ca
rbon and waste
Our focus areas
• Helping British suppliers
• Sourcing
 responsibly
• Reduce ca
rbon and waste
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
10
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Our value chain Customer insight survey Chief Executive introduction Global context Highlights StrategyThe SDGsOur Corporate Responsibility strategy
This Report provides details on our progress against our ten key focus areas, the challenges and opportunities  
and how we are aligning to our customer insight survey results and towards a global agenda.
Supporting  
British farmers
Looking after our  
colleaguesReducing  
food waste
Supporting local 
communitiesAuthenticity, provenance  
and safety
Sourcing  
responsiblyReducing, reusing and  
recycling plastic
Supply chain working  
conditionsReducing waste  
and emissions
Helping customers to live 
healthier livesp12 p20
p30 p22 p24 p26 p28p18 p16 p14Working with our suppliers to 
keep them competitive, profitable 
and sustainable.
Train, engage and retain  
our people to provide great 
customer service.Traceability and integrity  
of the products we buy.
Working with our suppliers to  
improve how they source their products 
with sustainability in mind.Changing the way we  
use plastics on our products  
and in our operations. 
Protection of workers’ rights  
and good relationships  
with suppliers.Reducing operational impact  
and creating efficiencies.
Helping our customers to make 
healthier choices.Following the food waste  
hierarchy to reduce, reuse  
and recycle.
Supporting causes that  
matter to our customers  
and colleagues.
NEW
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
11
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary AssuranceOur value chain Customer insight survey Chief Executive introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGsWe know our customers care about 
buying affordable British products. British farming is also essential to our business as it keeps supply chains  
short and efficient. 
It’s important that we support suppliers  
to create affordable and high quality 
products for our customers. 100% fresh Morrisons branded meat, milk and eggs  
are sourced from British farms.Supporting British farmers 
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
Customer insight survey 2018/19 ranking
2SUPPORTING BRITISH FARMERS (2017/18: 2 nd)
4 ANIMAL WELFARE  (2017/18: 6 th)
5SELLING BRITISH PRODUCTS (2017/18: 7 th)
9 SELLING LOCALLY SOURCED PRODUCTS  (2017/18: 9 th)
17 REDUCING ANTIBIOTICS IN FARMING (2017/18: 12 th)
24HELPING FARMERS TO REDUCE ON-FARM  
EMISSIONS NEW£12 m
Donated to  
farmers through  
For Farmers range 
(2017/18: £9m raised)
“ We are delighted that Morrisons will 
be inves
ting in Arla UK 360 across its 
entire Arla milk supply meaning around 200 farmers will benefit from their additional support.”
Arthur Fearnall
Board of Directors, ArlaOur approach
We buy animals and whole crops direct from 
British farmers.
Owning our own abattoirs, manufacturing and 
packing facilities enables us to utilise the whole animal and all of the crop, meaning farmers get a fair price and we’re reducing waste. 
Our Farming Programme also works with 
producers to promote profitable, responsible farming through collaboration and supply chain initiatives. OUR COMMITMENTS AND PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
100 %
British  
own brand  
fresh meat, milk  
and eggsCIWF Good Egg 
Award
Retailer  
of the Year at the  
Food and Farming  
Awards
All own brand  
fresh shell eggs will be 
cage free by 2022
and ingredients by 2025
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
12
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesSupporting British2018/19 activity
Morrisons farming programme 
We buy directly from 3,500 British farmers and 
growers and we’re the only retailer with our own 
livestock buyers. This gives us unique insight into the 
issues affecting farm production. 
Our farming programme covers a broad range of 
issues to keep British products competitive and farm 
businesses sustainable. We meet supply chain farming 
groups in each sector regularly to discuss practical 
issues affecting suppliers and their concerns for 
the future. 
Local Foodmakers and regional ranges
Our Local Foodmakers campaign searches for the 
best local suppliers and their products to stock in 
our stores. This allows customers to buy more local 
food which is made within 35 miles of their local 
store. The campaign has introduced 140 new Local 
Foodmakers and 680 new products to Morrisons 
stores across the UK.
We continue to promote regional ranges from 
South West beef to Yorkshire pork and Welsh lamb 
to Scottish mackerel. We have opened business 
opportunities for breeds and farm areas as part of 
our Best ranges including Hampshire pork, Dartmoor 
lamb and ‘Bee Friendly’ Yorkshire eggs. We worked 
with Traditional Norfolk Poultry to launch a new 
Marbury Red turkey for Christmas 2018.Red Tractor standards
All Morrisons branded fresh meat and milk is assured 
to Red Tractor standards which is the largest 
food standards scheme in the UK covering animal 
welfare, food safety, traceability and environmental 
protection. We are also members of the Red Tractor 
Boards for Poultry and Produce, contributing to the 
ongoing development of standards for these species. 
360 scheme
We are the first retailer to sign 100% of our fresh 
milk supply to Arla UK’s 360 scheme, committing 
to supporting high standards in animal welfare, 
environmental management, staff development 
and business resilience. The programme includes 
veterinary support and mentoring as well as delivering 
best practice standards in grazing, recycling of farm 
waste and using artificial intelligence in animal care.
Sponsorship 
For the second year running, we supported #Farm24  
online and through our social media channels. This  
year the event received over five million impressions 
on the day in its aim to increase awareness of the 
British farming industry.Antibiotic use in farming
The UK livestock industry has reduced the amount 
of antibiotics it uses by 40%. In our own supply chain, 
as of 2019, no pigs coming to our abattoirs for our 
fresh pork range have received a ‘critically important 
antibiotic’; other species groups only use ‘critical’ 
antibiotics as a treatment of last resort. We monitor 
antibiotic use in all species groups.
We stand by the Responsible Use of Medicines in 
Agriculture Alliance’s definition of routine use of 
antibiotics and have asked our supply chain to ensure 
they are not routinely using antibiotics when they are 
not needed. 
We are members of the British Retail Consortium’s 
working group on antimicrobial resistance and 
the IGD’s Strategic Steering Group for controlling 
antibiotic use in the food supply chain.
Shorthorn beef
The British Shorthorn was once a protected rare breed. 
We found from our research that the meat eating 
quality of this breed was high. By offering to pay  
a premium for the British Shorthorn, this encouraged 
farmers to invest in it. Shorthorn beef is now well 
established in our ‘Best’ range and we continue  
to work with the society to grow breed numbers. 
We met a large group of our Shorthorn producers 
in Autumn 2018 to work through the challenge of 
antibiotic recording and measurements for the sector.
Animal welfare
Environmental enrichment
Environmental enrichment materials help animals 
and birds express their normal rooting and nesting 
behaviours. We have started research trials in the 
broiler and laying hen sector to explore which 
enrichment materials would work better for birds,  
in what quantities and why. We have upgraded our bolt-on audits for Red 
Tractor Pork to include a requirement to provide 
more enrichment materials above the current Red 
Tractor standard.
Dairy beef
Working with farmers, we process reared dairy bulls 
through our abattoirs, preventing calves being killed 
at birth or exported live for continental veal markets. 
We have placed over 20,000 cattle on farm since the 
scheme started in 2016. We are taking part in a best 
practice project for dairy beef rearing with the Royal 
Agricultural University and run a ‘best practice’ birth 
to finish working group with our milk supplier, Arla, 
calf company Buitelaar, Woodheads and Morrisons.
Recognition
Our activity to promote, support and strengthen 
British farming was recognised by our receiving 
‘Retailer of the Year’ at the Food and Farming Awards 
at the House of Commons in November 2018. 
We received a ‘Good Egg Award’ from Compassion 
in World Farming in June 2018 for our work in bringing 
forward our commitment to only use eggs from 
hens not grown in cages. We also moved into Tier 2 
in the 2018 Business Benchmark for the Farm Animal 
Welfare survey.
WHAT’S NEXTPROMOTING BRITISH FARMING 
We continue to sell 100% fresh British own brand  
meat and milk in our stores throughout the year. 
Supporting British farming contributes  
to the UK economy, it means we’re  
closer to source allowing us to secure  
the best suppliers creating brand  
integrity and trust amongst our  
stakeholders.Continued environmental  
enrichment work into 2019-20
Relaunch of regional ranges
Continued Local Foodmaker eventsSupporting British farmers 
continued
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
13
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesSupporting British
It is a priority that our products and 
services meet stringent food safety and legal standards. 
This significantly reduces risk and meets 
customer expectation for quality and value. We must source from suppliers we know and trust, providing clear transparency and traceability back to source. Ensuring food safety, quality and provenance
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
Customer insight survey 2018/19 ranking
1ENSURING FOOD SAFETY (2017/18 1 st)
15 ACCURATE PRODUCT LABELLING  (2017/18: 16 th)All labels on our  
pre-packed in-store 
produced products 
contain allergy 
advice on the label
(excluding single ingredient  
unprocessed meat)
5,000+
supplier visits  
by our ‘at source’  
produce experts
Allergens training  
rolled out to all  
colleagues in store 3rd year  
of Culture of  
Excellence programme 
in manufacturing
4th year 
below FSA’s  
retailer target on  
campylobacter levelsOUR COMMITMENTS AND PERFORMANCE SUMMARYOur approach
We set high standards for our own brand 
suppliers, manufacturing sites and stores to ensure the delivery of safe and legal products  
that meet the demands of our customers.
All manufacturing sites of Morrisons own 
brand food and drink must meet our food manufacturing standard and maintain certification against the British Retail Consortium (BRC) Global Standard for Food Safety, which is internationally recognised.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
14
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesFood safety2018/19 activity
Traceability to farm 
Every fresh Morrisons branded meat product can  
be traced back to source. Unique codes on packs 
refer to the manufacturing site where it was processed and the farms that supplied the livestock.
Campylobacter
Since 2013, we have been working hard to reduce 
campylobacter levels in fresh own brand chicken. We have worked with our suppliers to implement a detailed Campylobacter Action Plan which has successfully reduced campylobacter levels in our chickens. 
Overall for 2018 only 0.4% of our chickens had the 
higher levels of contamination from a total of 498 chickens tested. International ‘at source’ teams
We have a team of ‘at source’ produce experts 
helping us to work more effectively with farmers  
in Spain, Chile, Holland, South Africa and Peru. In 2018/19, our ‘at source’ team conducted over  
5,000 supplier visits. 
Recipe management
All Market Street recipes are being entered onto 
Morrisons’ Recipe system. As well as improving the control of recipes, the system increases the robustness of the process to ensure allergens present are correctly declared on product labels. It also provides nutritional content and full ingredients lists  
for each product. 
The Food Industry Intelligence Network (FIIN)
We are active members of the expert Technical 
Steering Group which evaluates the ‘big picture’  
of all participant’s testing activity, addresses  
the vulnerability of specific categories and issues formal recommendations for increased vigilance. In 2018, we responded to FIIN recommendations to up-weight our surveillance testing of organic products, oils, rice, wine and coffee.
Acrylamide
Acrylamide is a chemical substance formed when 
starchy foods, such as potatoes and bread, are cooked at high temperatures above 120°C. We have updated our Technical Policy for Acrylamide Control, to reflect legislation that came into force in April 2018, and have verified that affected suppliers comply with the new standards. We have worked with stakeholders in Market Street and Cafe to ensure we are meeting legal duties and can show that acrylamide levels are as low as reasonably achievable.
Horizon scanning
We maintain an active horizon scanning programme. 
Since January, this scrutiny has identified issues in the industry including fraudulent treatment of low grade tuna to upgrade its visual appearance, illegal pesticides in tea, celery leaf in parsley and undeclared sugar addition to apple juice. This has allowed us to determine our exposure to the issue and take corrective action.
Safe and legal compliance in store
We are working with the Food Standards Agency 
(FSA) on Regulating our Future, which is a strategy to improve the way food businesses are regulated. The current model of food inspections is one size fits all. The FSA wants a flexible, risk-based approach that is fit for the future and takes into account the changes in the food industry, such as online retailers and food delivery services. 
Culture of Excellence
We ran the Culture of Excellence Audit programme 
for the third year in manufacturing to access our current food safety and quality culture and drive continuous improvement. Audits were completed at all 18 manufacturing sites with a 10% increase in colleague engagement seen from 2017 to 2018 and the overall score increasing  
year on year from 71 to 72%. 
All sites are now working on their 2019 action plans 
to further improve their site’s food safety and quality culture. 
BRC Standard Version 8 which launched 1st February 
2019 now also includes a clause covering food safety culture and sites are required to be taking action to improve. Having been auditing, measuring and putting actions in place to drive improvement since 2016 our sites are in a great place to demonstrate compliance to this new clause.
Morrisons Supplier Microbiology Forum 
Our group of food safety experts, brought 
together from of our supply base and our own in-house expertise, have continued to share best practices, identify industry issues and emerging microbiological risks. 
The forum has developed several valuable guidance 
documents for our suppliers on practical food safety, including determination of safe shelf lives and on maintenance and monitoring of factory hygiene, which have been well-received by our supplier base.
2019/20 AND BEYONDALLERGEN INFORMATION
We have seen significant increased 
awareness of allergens amongst our customers and colleagues as a result of the high profile Pret a Manger case in 2018.All of our in-store produced products that are pre-packed contain allergy advice on the label (excluding single ingredient unprocessed meat). We have developed a new eLearning module for our stores on Allergens and Unauthorised ingredients.We have also developed a new simplified procedure for managing allergens which has been introduced into store staff rooms. Within our Bakery department, ‘What Good Looks Like’ modules have been introduced to help prevent  
mis-labelling incidents. 
All Morrisons Market Street products,  
made in store will be entered on to the recipe 
management system
Continued work to reduce campylobacter levelsEnsuring food safety, quality and provenance
continued
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
15
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesFood safetyPlastic has many useful properties 
across a number of industries. In food 
retail, it can play an important part in 
protecting and prolonging the shelf life of 
a product, helping to significantly reduce 
food waste. 
However, we know our industry needs  
to urgently change the way it produces, 
uses and disposes of plastic. By 2050, there 
will be more plastic in the ocean than fish. 
Stakeholder pressure to act on plastic 
continues to grow. The Government’s 
recent 25 year Environmental Plan and  
Waste and Resources strategy has a clear  
focus on plastic waste and producer  
responsibility. Reducing, reusing and recycling the plastic we use 
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
Customer insight survey 2018/19 ranking
2REDUCING PLASTIC PACKAGING (2017/18 3rd)
6 REDUCING PACKAGING WASTE  (2017/18: 4 th)
18 ENCOURAGING RECYCLING (2017/18: 15 th)PEFC certified reusable  
paper carrier bag  
launch announced176 m
plastic produce  
bags removed
600
tonnes of unrecyclable 
polystyrene removed from 
Morrisons branded products
81%
Morrisons branded  
plastic packaging is  
recyclable by weight9,000
tonnes of plastic  
removed or made widely 
recyclable
OUR COMMITMENTS AND PERFORMANCE SUMMARYOur approach
We have a responsibility to do the right 
thing for our customers. It’s important we’re 
moving towards a circular plastics economy 
model; reducing, reusing and recycling 
where possible.
Our ambition is to be a leading corporate  
in the fight to keep plastic in the economy  
and out of the environment, to be an example  
of what good looks like to other corporates  
and to help more and more customers live  
their lives with less reliance on plastic. 
“ Morrisons’ work to reduce plastic 
is a great example of how well the 
company is serving its stakeholders and 
contributing to the UK Plastics PACT.”
Marcus Gover
CEO, WRAP
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
16
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesPlastics2018/19 focus 
Over the last year, 9,000 tonnes of Morrisons brand 
primary packaging has been removed or made widely recyclable. 
UK Plastic PACT
Morrisons was a founder member of the UK Plastics PACT, a collaborative commitment which joins up all stakeholders in the plastics system – businesses, Government, local authorities, environmental organisations, and the wider public to ensure that all plastic packaging will be recyclable, reusable or compostable by 2025. Within the Plastics PACT we are active members of Single Use Plastics, Citizens Engagement and Reporting working groups.
Details of our Plastics PACT commitments can be 
found on page 35. 
Reducing the amount of plastic we use on 
our products 
25% reduction by 2025
We announced our target to reduce own brand primary plastic packaging by 25% by 2025 against a 2017 baseline. We will achieve this through a variety of methods including packaging optimisation, ‘right-weighting’ or removal of unnecessary materials and innovation as well as concentrated and compressed packaging. In 2018/19, we achieved a 5% like-for-like reduction in plastic use. 
Removing problematic plastics 
We have removed expanded polystyrene across all Morrisons branded food and drinks products. During 2019, we will continue to phase out remaining black plastic, expanded polystyrene and rigid PVC across all our products. 
We no longer sell boxed plastic straws or provide free 
plastic drinking straws to our customers in our cafes or barista bars. This has removed over 65m plastic straws from our stores. We’re working with Morrisons branded suppliers on suitable alternatives to plastic straws on cartons. 
In 2018/19 we trialled increasing the number of loose 
fruit and vegetables on Market Street in three stores. Working with WRAP and Defra, we’ve analysed the overall environmental impact of this initiative.In addition to this trial, we’ve also have removed plastic wrap from fresh swede, British summer season cucumbers, asparagus and rhubarb.Tackling marine litter 
Abandoned, lost and discarded fishing gear constitutes 
around 10% of all marine litter and continues to be a challenge for the fishing sector. We continue to be supporting members of the Global Ghost Gear Initiative which is helping to understand this issue and are engaging with stakeholders to help understand how we can introduce best practice in our supply chains.External recognition
Morrisons was ranked the best for recyclable 
packaging by the consumer group Which? following an investigation into the recyclability of plastic packaging at supermarkets. 
In July 2018, The British Growers Association  
published a survey on the packaging of fresh produce 
in UK food retail. The survey used data from British Grower’s Produce View market intelligence survey providing an independent overview of fresh fruit  
and vegetable packaging type by category and retailer. Findings from this survey revealed Morrisons over-trades in loose compared to its share of the market.
Morrisons was placed 2nd out of 10 UK supermarkets 
in a survey conducted by the Environmental Investigation Agency and Greenpeace on supermarket plastics. The survey, believed to be the largest ever conducted among UK retailers, ranks supermarkets based on the volume of single-use plastic packaging they put into the market, their targets to reduce plastic packaging, and their approach to tackling plastic pollution across their supply chains.
Reducing, reusing and recycling the plastic we use 
continued
WHAT’S NEXT?
Continued removal of problematic plastic  
 to complete target
Reduction of unnecessary plastic
To increase visibility of OPRL on our products
Increase recyclability and recycled  
content in our productsHELPING OUR CUSTOMERS TO REDUCE AND RECYCLE
Recycling information
Currently, 81% of Morrisons branded products are recyclable by weight. ‘Widely Recycled’ Morrisons branded products have increased by 3%. We have also seen a reduction in ‘Recycle with carrier bags at larger stores’ by 3% following our decision to remove single use carrier bags from our stores. For a full breakdown of our plastic use, please refer to page 35 of this Report. 
It is a requirement that all own brand 
packaging must now carry On Pack Recycling Label (OPRL) labelling to help our customers to easily identify what can and can’t be recycled. We’ve also introduced new front-of-pack recycling logos for plastic packaging suitable for products that can either be recycled at kerbside or at recycling points in store. Carrier bags Alongside the removal of the 5p plastic carrier bag, which has removed 192m plastic bags per year, in early 2019 we also announced the launch of our paper carrier bag option. These bags are 100% PEFC accredited, suitable for reuse and can ultimately be recycled at kerbside.
Loose produce paper bags
We have removed plastic bags for loose fruit and vegetables and replaced them with paper bags in all stores. This removes 174m plastic bags, which is the equivalent of 269 tonnes of plastic.
Reverse vending machines
We are trialling reverse vending machines for plastic bottles and drinks cans in three of our stores. Customers receive Morrisons More card points or can choose to donate the cash alternative to our charity partner, CLIC Sargent for each container brought back. Reuse and refill To help our customers reduce single use plastic on Market Street, customers are able to bring their own reusable containers to our Butchery and Fishmonger counters. 
We are trialling an initiative where 
customers can use refillable/reusable containers at our Nuts, Seeds and Dried Fruit in two stores. 
We offer customers the option to 
refill their water bottles in our stores and have installed drinking fountains into our new stores to make this even easier. We promote this service in our stores and on the mobile app, Refill. 
#LeedsByExample
We were part of a behaviour change initiative called #LeedsByExample, which aimed to increase recycling of on-the-go food and drink packaging in the city of Leeds. Findings from this initiative will be shared with Government to see how the most successful elements can replicated into other UK cities and towns. 
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
17
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesPlasticsClimate change significantly affects  
our business through its impacts on 
agricultural yields, food prices and supply. 
It’s important that we minimise 
environmental risks to our business,  
protect natural capital and create 
efficiencies. As a food maker it is also 
important that we show respect and  
value for the food we serve to our 
customers, whilst operating efficient 
supply chains. Reducing operational general waste and carbon emissions
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
Customer insight survey 2018/19 ranking
5REDUCING PACKAGING WASTE  (2017/18: 4 th)
15 ENCOURAGING RECYCLING (2017/18: 15 th)
21 REDUCING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT (2017/18: 18 th)Voltage optimisation  
and LED lighting rolloutContinued rollout  
of CO 2 refrigerationEnergy efficient fridge  
doors fitted in new and  
refurbished stores 99.5 %
store waste diverted  
from landfillOUR COMMITMENTS AND PERFORMANCE SUMMARYOur approach
We were the first major supermarket to be 
awarded the Carbon Trust standard in 2008  
based on a range of activity at the time which  
we continue to this day.
Reducing our impact is part of good 
shopkeeping. It makes sense not only from 
an environmental perspective, it also ensures 
efficiency throughout our operations. 
“ Corporates have a significant role to 
play on climate change. It’s good to see 
that Morrisons have taken a long term 
view and are now looking to align their 
carbon emissions to climate change by 
following a science based pathway.”
Mark Reynolds
Carbon Trust45 %
reduction in operational 
carbon emissions 
(2005 baseline) 
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
18
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesCarbon and waste2018/19 activity 
Voltage optimisation and LED
We are rolling out voltage optimisation units 
and LED lighting upgrades across retail, logistics and manufacturing. We have installed voltage optimisation units at 46 stores where we are achieving approximately 4% savings in electricity consumption. We have also upgraded lighting from fluorescent to LED or improved lighting control in 46 stores. Additionally, LED lighting is upgraded through our store fresh look programme.
Refrigeration 
34 stores across the estate now have fridges fitted 
with doors to reduce energy consumption, with estimated energy savings of around 30-40%. We will continue to rollout fridges with doors in new and refurbished stores where possible. Alongside fridge doors, we replaced full refrigeration with more efficient equipment in 21 stores as part of our store refurbishment programme. We also have 26 stores  
with full CO
2 refrigeration.
Shelf edge technology
We have installed shelf edge technology in five 
of our stores. Devices are fitted to open fronted fridges, one of the largest energy using appliances in store. The device is an aerodynamically-profiled blade drawing the cold air curtain back into the fridge, reducing cold-air spill, energy consumption and improving aisle temperatures. We are expecting energy savings of between 10 – 15% through the use of this technology. Trials are in place to monitor the success of this technology with the view to installing across our estate. Trim control 
We have installed trim heat control boxes to our 
frozen cases in six stores, with a plan to rollout to a further 200 stores in 2019/20. Trim heaters have been fitted to frozen food cabinets of both full and half glass door cabinets. The heaters reduce power consumption when installed, reducing the demand for heat around the frozen glass doors.
Remote monitoring 
We have set up two remote functions to control 
energy usage across our refrigeration and heating ventilation and air conditioning systems in retail. The teams use real-time data and asset alarms to solve issues quickly, have close control of performance and usage and trial new ways to save energy. This allow us to move towards predictive maintenance and remove wasted effort for our colleagues. Logistics 
Within logistics, we are undertaking a number 
of activities designed to reduce the distance we travel and the fuel we burn while delivering food to our stores. 
These initiatives include:
•
 Trip reduc
tion:  By increasing the use of Double 
Deck trailers and maximising the vehicle fill on our 
Extended Length trailers we have been able to reduce the number of trips we make to stores to deliver the same volume. We continue to be the largest operator of extended trailers in the UK and are actively seeking partners who operate similar assets to support our operations.
•
 Driving s
tyles:  By using our vehicle telematics 
system we have improved the average miles to the gallon of our drivers by reducing harsh braking, acceleration and engine idling time.•
 New flee
t investment:  This year we have replaced  
50 units with the latest Euro 6 technology, these 
new units have shown a much-improved miles to the gallon. Over two thirds of the fleet is now equipped with this latest technology.
•
 Network
 efficiency:  Between sites, we have 
awarded the transport operations for our National 
Distribution centre to Eddie Stobart Ltd. Working in partnership we have been able to increase the efficiency of inter-depot transport leading to better use of trucks and trailers on the roads.
Waste in stores
We aim for zero waste direct to landfill in our 
stores. We operate a strong reduction and recycling programme treating waste as a resource and work with our waste contractors to maximise reprocessing.
2018/19 store waste and recycling breakdown
Material Tonnes
Card 102,921
Confidential paper  535
Mixed plastics 6,797
Animal by-product (ABP) 4,357
Light tubes 1
Oil 4,002
Other recyclables 3
Diverted trade waste 55,725
Total recycled/reprocessed waste (99.5%)    174,341
Landfill (0.5%)        1,003
Total waste produced 175,344
NEXT STEPS SCIENCE-BASED TARGET
We need to take urgent action  
on climate change. 
According to the UN, without 
significant action the increase in the world’s average surface temperature is likely to surpass 3 degrees centigrade this century. 
We are already seeing the effects 
of climate change in every country, Oceans are warming, snow and ice have diminished and sea levels have risen. As a result, we continue to see extreme weather conditions, loss of biodiversity and wildlife and increases in food insecurity typically affecting the world’s poorest regions. Our stakeholders want us to continue to reduce our impact and align to science-based metrics. Following the success of our reduction target to reduce operational carbon emissions by 30% by 2020 (2005 baseline), which has seen a reduction of 45%, we have been working with the Carbon Trust to set a science-based target.
A carbon emissions target is defined 
as science-based if it is in line with the scale of reductions required to keep global temperature increase well below 2°C compared to pre-industrial temperatures. We believe that setting a science-based target to reduce our direct emissions creates a meaningful way to reduce operational impact and demonstrates our commitment to contribute to the global goals set out in the Paris Agreement in 2015 to keep a global temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase even further to 1.5 degrees. From a business case perspective it also makes sense, as it builds resilience for our business, creates efficiencies and drives innovation. 
We will announce further details of 
our new target on our website later in the year. 
Science based target launch
Continued CO 2 refrigeration installation 
Improved supplier relationships: control over usage 
and trialling new ways to reduce consumption Reducing operational general waste and carbon emissions
continued
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
19
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesCarbon and wasteAround a third of all the world’s food 
produced is either lost or wasted from farm to fork. This creates economic loss, food insecurity and subsequent impacts on climate. 
By building smarter supply chains we 
reduce avoidable food waste. As a food retailer, our stakeholders expect us to act on food waste by following the food waste hierarchy of prevention, optimisation, recycling, recovery and, as a last resort, responsible disposal. 
Total unsold food  
products donated through 
stores since 2016/17
5.1 m
(2018/19: 3.4m)Reducing food waste
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
Customer insight survey 2018/19 ranking
8 REDUCING FOOD WASTE (2017/18: 5th)Too Good to Waste  
boxes launched£330,000
Donated to food  
redistribution charities
(2017/18: £250,000)
We will reduce  
operational  
food waste by 
50 % by 2030
(2016 baseline)
250+
Farmers  
supported  
through 
Naturally  
Wonky rangeOUR COMMITMENTS AND PERFORMANCE SUMMARYOur approach
We are committed to providing food we are 
proud of with the minimum wasted so that our customers enjoy eating quality fresh food at great value.
We have to take an active approach to use 
more of what we buy and consequently the management and reduction of associated waste is our responsibility. 
By having a greater degree of control over more 
of our fresh UK food chain through our vertical integration model, we believe we are also able to drive efficiency from farm gate through our more direct supply chain to our customers. 
“ Two million meals donated to FareShare  
since 20
17 is a testament to Morrisons 
commitment to tackling food waste and fighting food poverty. The food from Morrisons, particularly their fresh  fruit and vegetables, makes a world of difference to charities on the frontline,  supporting some of the most vulnerable people in our community.”
Lindsay Boswell
Chief Executive, FareShare7,710 
tonnes surplus food  
redistributed since 2016/17
(2018/19: 3,553 tonnes)
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
20
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary AssuranceSupporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles Communities2018/19 activity
Helping farmers to reduce on-farm waste
We support over 250 farmers through our Naturally 
Wonky range, helping them to reduce on-farm waste. 
Wonky fruit and veg occurs for a number of reasons 
such as poor weather conditions. Products will have 
been selected from farmers’ crops because they are 
mis-shapen, have skin blemishes or growth cracks,  
or are much smaller or larger than average.
We sell 33 varieties of Naturally Wonky fresh fruit  
and vegetables to over 700,000 customers per week. 
In 2018, we sold over 40m packs of Naturally Wonky, 
which is the equivalent of 1,200 tonnes per week. 
Supporting UN Sustainable Development Goal 12.3 
We have set a target to reduce operational food 
waste by 50% by 2030. This target supports the 
UN Sustainable Development Goal 12.3 target of 
halving global food waste by 2030 as well as WRAP’s 
Courtauld 2025 Commitment to reduce food and 
drink waste arising in the UK by 20%. Measuring store food waste
Working with third party data analysts, Valpak 
Limited, we have developed a methodology to 
accurately record food wasted in our stores by 
weight. 14,023 tonnes of food was recorded as waste 
in 2018/19. 
Since 2016/17, we have seen a 13% reduction in 
food wasted in stores. We have improved our 
methodology for calculation of our store operational 
food waste by weight, through greater visibility of 
accurate product line and packaging information. 
Further information can be found on page 36 of 
this Report.
Food as sales (tonnes) 3,911,799
Food wasted excluding donations (tonnes) 14,023
Percentage of food wasted compared to sales 0.36%
Unsold food donated (units) 1.7mCafe food waste measurement 
We are working with Winnow to trial their state-
of-the-art technology in 30 of our customer cafes. 
This allows us to accurately capture food wasted, 
providing real-time data, allowing colleagues to 
forecast and recognise food waste trends, ultimately 
helping us to drive down waste. We are also trialling 
this technology on our Market Street counters in  
one of our stores.
Free fruit for kids 
In 2018 we launched our Free Fruit for Kids initiative in 
our stores, to prevent unsold fruit being thrown away. 
The scheme means that fruit, which is still ripe and of 
good eating quality does not go to waste. 
Every week we give away 40,000 pieces of fruit that is 
within its ‘Display Until’ date window but is at risk of 
not being sold, this equates to two million pieces of 
fruit a year across all stores. 
Company Shop
We work with Company Shop to redistribute surplus 
products from our supply chain, manufacturing 
sites, online spokes and distribution centres to be 
sold in their discount stores. Since 2016/17, we’ve 
redistributed 4,800 tonnes to Company Shop. 
Donating surplus food to charities 
FareShare is the UK’s leading food redistribution 
charity, supplying to their network of over 9,000 
charities. Since 2017, we’ve redistributed over 
2m meals, the equivalent of over 800 tonnes, 
to FareShare through our manufacturing and 
wholesale operations. 
The Bread and Butter Thing are a food redistribution 
charity based in Manchester helping to provide 
low-income families with a provision of fresh food. We work with The Bread and Butter Thing through 
our online, wholesale and manufacturing operation. 
Through our unsold food programme, we continue to 
work with 450 local community groups to redistribute 
edible surplus that can’t be sold in our stores. 
Since the programme began in 2016, we’ve donated 
5.1m unsold food products, the equivalent of over 
2,000 tonnes.
The Morrisons Foundation support
The Morrisons Foundation donated over £330,000 
to food redistribution organisations, helping them to 
purchase fridges, vans and equipment to help them 
utilise more surplus food.
Helping customers to reduce waste
Last year we launched Eat Fresh boxes online, these 
boxes provide pre-portioned ingredients to create 
a range of recipes for two to four people, reducing 
unnecessary waste at meal times. The Eat Fresh 
boxes are available across the UK selling 2,500 meals 
per week. 
We continue to support WRAP’s Love Food Hate 
Waste campaign throughout our social media 
channels, which focuses on the most wasted 
products in the home.
2019 AND BEYONDTOO GOOD TO WASTE BOXES 
We launched a ‘Too Good to Waste’ box in stores, 
selling fresh fruit and vegetables just past ‘Display 
Until’ date but still perfectly edible. 
Each one kilogramme box is filled with a mix of fresh 
fruit and vegetables and sells at a discounted price of 
just £1. 
Food waste reduction roadmaps
Measurement of food waste across  
manufacturing and distribution centres
Continue to increase the  
amount of surplus food redistributedReducing food waste
continued
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
21
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary AssuranceSupporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles Communities
The success of Morrisons is dependent  
on recruiting, developing and retaining 
the right people. 
It’s important that our colleagues reflect 
the communities in which we operate, and feel safe, supported and engaged to enable great customer service. Looking after our colleagues
76%
colleague  
engagement  
score
Google communities  
colleague platforms  
launchedMy Performance  
plans 
launched to support  
colleague development 
Colleague wellbeing  
toolkits launchedOUR COMMITMENTS AND PERFORMANCE SUMMARYOur approach
Our people are at the forefront of 
everything we do. Recruiting and retaining the right people means we deliver our strategic objectives and provide excellent customer service.
At Morrisons we aim to create long term 
partnerships by giving colleagues the time, qualifications and support needed to grow  
and develop their skills. 
“ I’d definitely recommend Morrisons Apprent
iceship scheme. It has given  
me the knowledge and skills for my job, which I’m fortunate enough to pass  on to my customers.”
Charlie Woodward
Fishmonger ApprenticeUN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
Customer insight survey 2018/19 ranking
10 LOOKING AFTER OUR COLLEAGUES (2017/18: 8 th)
23DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY IN THE  
WORKPLACE (2017/18: 17 th)
31 EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING  (2017/18: 28 th)500
fresh food  
apprenticeships  
launched
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
22
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesOur colleaguesLooking after our colleagues
continued
2019/20 FOCUS YOUR SAY
Listening and responding to our 
colleagues remains a priority. 
This year we continued to work 
with colleagues through our ‘Your 
Say’ forums in every store and site, 
with local representatives getting 
directly involved in improving their 
place of work. At our national ‘Your 
Say’ forum, colleagues from across 
the business came together with 
members of the Board including 
Non-Executive Directors and some 
of the Leadership Team to discuss 
some of the opportunities to 
improve Morrisons. In our annual ‘Your Say’ survey we 
heard from more than three-quarters 
of all our colleagues, achieving 
a strong overall engagement 
score of 76%. There were some 
particularly strong scores: on 
colleagues understanding how their 
role contributes to the success of 
Morrisons (89%); and feeling trusted 
to do their job in a way that puts 
customers first (89%).
2018/19 activity
Fair day’s pay
During 2018, we listened hard to our colleagues’  
views on a fair day’s work. In our ‘Your Say’ survey, 
71% of colleagues told us they receive a fair day’s pay 
for a fair day’s work, 22% ahead of the retail industry 
benchmark provided by a third party survey.
During the year we again improved our market 
competitive rate of pay for our front-line store 
colleagues, increasing from £8.50 per hour to £8.70 per 
hour. We also took the opportunity to invest further 
in the 6,000 team managers who run our in-store 
departments, introducing a performance driven pay 
award to replace the previous flat rate, and increasing 
their maximum bonus opportunity. 
New operational structures
We introduced our new store management  
structure early in the year. The structure is simpler, 
with broader team manager roles which are designed 
to provide better support and guidance to our front 
line colleagues. By changing the structure we removed 
around 1,500 management roles and reinvested in 
front-line colleague hours.
Of those affected by the structure change,  
we retained the skills and experience of over  
800 colleagues in other roles. Towards the end of 
the year we invested in technical and behavioural 
training, to further raise the capability of our store 
management teams.
‘Customers First’ training 
Customers First colleague training was launched  
to improve customer experience across our stores. 
The success of the first cohort of 15 Customers 
First stores completing their My Job programme in 
2018 and early results showing an uplift in customer 
satisfaction scores and decrease in complaints. Apprenticeship training
In early 2019, we announced our intention to create 
an additional 500 apprenticeships in butchery, bakery 
and fishmongery in our stores throughout the year. 
This is in addition to the 10,000 craft skilled colleagues 
already in our stores. 
Google Communities
We launched Google Communities to help colleagues 
access information and updates specific to their 
roles, sharing ideas and celebrating success. We now 
have over 60 Google Community platforms on a 
broad range topics from produce, butchery and 
fish to plastics, women in Morrisons and business 
improvement training. 
My Performance 
We launched an online system to track performance 
objectives, colleague feedback and reviews for all 
salaried colleagues. Progress is formally reported on, 
reviewed and tracked twice a year through the regular 
performance management cycle.Wellbeing tools
Our wellbeing toolkit is now available on MyMorri,  
our online colleague platform. It features information 
and practical advice on four key areas of wellbeing; 
mind, body, social and life events, and financials. 
There is also a section on line manager guidance 
to help and support team members who are 
experiencing difficulties in this area. 
Women in the workplace
During the year we launched our ‘Leading with 
Respect’ training, to better equip line managers with 
the skills to create the right environment.
In addition, we have continued to work on improving 
our talent and gender balance. 
During the year, we employed 57,611 females and 
46,019 males, increased the overall proportion of 
female store managers to c.20% and maintained the 
proportion of female regional managers at over 26%.We are particularly proud of the work we have done to 
increase female representation at senior levels. This has 
been recognised in the November 2018 Hampton 
Alexander report with Morrisons shown as the fifth best 
performer in the FTSE 100. At the end of the 2018/19 
financial year, our Leadership Team included 16 female 
members, representing 28% of its total composition.
Gender pay gap
In our latest gender pay gap reporting, we declared 
women’s mean hourly rate is 14.5% lower than men’s, 
with the median hourly rate 12.2% lower. Our ambition 
is for all our colleagues to have the opportunity to 
develop, progress and grow. As we continue to build 
a broader stronger Morrisons, we will better balance 
the number of men and women across our business 
and throughout our work levels.
The full gender pay report can be found here . 
Supporting our diverse colleagues
We continue to celebrate and promote the diversity 
of our colleagues. 
Our LGBT+ colleague network continues to grow. 
In 2018/19, the community represented Morrisons at 
various Pride events across the country. 
We have also established a Black, Asian and Minority 
Ethnic listening programme to understand how we 
can better support and create opportunities for 
these colleagues.
Work life and wellbeing plan in development
BAME listening programme to be continued 
Shift management system to be rolled out to all stores
Pulse survey insights
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
23
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesOur colleaguesIncreasing global demand and pressure 
for key commodities can lead to poorly managed supply chains, degradation of land, illegal logging and the destruction of natural habitats and ecosystems. 
We must improve supply chain 
transparency and conserve the natural capital we’re dependent on. Sourcing responsibly
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
Customer insight survey 2018/19 ranking
11RESPONSIBLY CAUGHT FISH  
AND SEAFOOD  (2017/18: 11 th)
12FAIR WAGES FOR FARMERS AND GROWERS  
IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (2017/18: 23 rd)
13PROTECTING FORESTS AND  
NATURAL HABITATS (2017/18: 14 th)Continued participation  
in Sustainable Fisheries 
Partnership’s Ocean  
Disclosure ProjectAll Morrisons branded 
bananas are Fairtrade  
or Rainforest Alliance 
certified
3 out of 3 trees in WWF’s  
Timber Scorecard
3/3
OUR COMMITMENTS AND PERFORMANCE SUMMARYOur approach
We are committed to responsible sourcing 
and use supply chains which minimise environmental impacts associated with  
the production of raw materials.
We work with our suppliers to improve 
the transparency, social and environmental performance of our supply chain and ensure they are meeting our high sourcing standards. We encourage and promote responsible practices and a longer term view. 
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
24
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesSource responsibly2019 AND BEYONDSourcing responsibly
continued
2018/19 focus 
Seafood 
Sourcing responsibly caught fish and seafood 
continues to be an important consideration for our customers and a priority for our business. 
Our commitment to the Sustainable Seafood 
Coalition codes of conduct underpins our approach which, at its heart, prioritises care for the environment, fish and workers in our supply chains. 
Before sourcing any fish or seafood for use in our 
products, we assess the supply chains we want to work with to ensure they meet the standards that underpin our commitment to responsibly sourced production working with sustainable, well managed fisheries that are certified to a standard recognised by the Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative (GSSI) or with supply chains committed to supporting necessary improvements where challenges are identified. Supporting improvement in seafood sourcing
While many wild caught sources are certified to 
standards recognised by the GSSI, many still require further improvement. This can be further support required for collection of data to help better understand the stock status of a fishery, or improving the management controls of the boats catching the fish. 
Formal fishery improvement programmes provide  
a platform for collaboration of the fishing sector,  
the supply chain and relevant scientific experts  
to help identify and work through these challenges. We continue to support Project UK Fisheries 
Improvement, coordinated by the Marine Stewardship Council, which has been working with six major UK fisheries over the past three years and are proud to have supported the expansion of this work to two more vital UK fisheries including: •
  North Sea p
laice and lemon sole, demersal trawl, 
beam trawl and seine; 
• Channel scallops, dredge; 
•  Western a
nd Channel monkfish, demersal trawl, 
beam trawl and gill net;
• Southwe
st crab and lobster pots
•  Nephrop
s, North Sea, West of Scotland and Irish 
Sea, demersal trawl and creel; and 
• King scal
lops, North Sea, West of Scotland and Irish 
Sea mechanical dredge.
As part of our support for the Ocean Disclosure Programme we continue to publish a transparent map and list of all our wild capture sources which breaks down the status of each fishery - https://oceandisclosureproject.org/companies/morrisons
Farmed seafood 
The growth in production of farmed seafood, most 
notably prawns and salmon, continues to play an increasingly important role in global production and makes up around half of the supply of all the fish and seafood we sell. Independent oversight of the production systems, the farms, hatcheries, feedmills and processing sites plays a valuable role in the management of our supply chains with over 99% of our own suppliers certified to schemes like GlobalG.A.P, Aquaculture Stewardship Council or Global Aquaculture Alliance Best Aquaculture Practice.Soy 
We are members of the Roundtable on Responsible 
Soy (RTRS), which is a certification scheme to help prevent the environmental impact of unsustainable soy production. We are also signatories to Cerrado Manifesto Statement of Support (SoS), a group  
which aims to work with key stakeholders to achieve better protection of forests in the Cerrado. 
We are also working alongside other retailers and 
are also developing our own policy to support the sustainable use of soya in animal feed, as well as product formulation.
Palm oil 
All own brand products containing palm oil and 
derivatives must be sourced through a RSPO certified supply chain system of either segregated or mass balance systems. Palm kernel oil and derivatives used in own brand products must be covered through a RSPO certified supply chain system with RSPO Credits as a minimum.
Timber 
During 2018/19, 78% of wood and wood derived 
products were Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified, approved alternatives or recycled in own brand household and beauty products, and 72% FSC, approved alternatives or recycled in own brand home and leisure products.
Revision of seafood sourcing policy
Development of soy sourcing policy for  
Morrisons branded products
Continue to monitor compliance  
to palm oil policyBANANAS
We’ve redesigned our banana 
supply chain and are now directly sourcing 50% of our conventional bananas from growers in Costa Rica, Colombia and Ecuador. 
Working with NGO, BananaLink, 
on this project we have ensured that each of our growers have enhanced levels of social responsibility and environmental sustainability in accordance with BananaLink’s recommendations and are independent and family owned businesses. We aim to source 80% of our bananas through this supply chain model by 2021. 
We have increased sales of Fairtrade 
bananas across our organic range  
by offering customers with a smaller value sized pack, providing customers with a direct comparison to our standard banana range. This has resulted in +15% transactions year to date. 
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
25
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesSource responsiblyOur customers expect us to take 
responsibility for fair working conditions in our supply chain, protecting workers’ rights and maintaining good relationships with our suppliers. 
We work collaboratively with our suppliers, 
competitors and external stakeholders to drive positive change throughout our operations. Ensuring fair working conditions for workers in our supply chain
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
Customer insight survey 2018/19 ranking
7TRADING FAIRLY WITH SUPPLIERS (2017/18: 10th)
13RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS IN  
THE SUPPLY CHAIN NEW
15TACKLING MODERN SLAVERY AND  
HUMAN TRAFFICKING (2017/18: 13 th)
Supported the  
launch of the  
Responsible Car Wash 
Scheme 
Publication of  
Nutmeg tier one  
factory list870
Colleagues trained  
on Modern Slavery 
(2017/18: 537  
colleagues trained)Achieved full membership  
of the Ethical Trading  
InitiativeOUR COMMITMENTS AND PERFORMANCE SUMMARYOur approach
At Morrisons we recognise the responsibility that 
we share with our suppliers to buy, produce and sell our products in an ethical manner.
We strongly believe that when human rights are 
respected and ethical standards are consistently delivered, this can improve worker wellbeing, productivity and quality, which benefits both our suppliers and our customers. We seek to develop long-term, mutually beneficial trading relationships with suppliers based on the principle of fair, open  
and honest dealings at all times.
Our Ethical Trading Code sets out key rights for 
workers, including guidance on wages, working hours, safe and hygienic conditions and discrimination. Compliance with the Code is part of our standard terms of supply and applies to all providers of goods and services. 
We use our reach and influence to engage our 
supplier base with research and data gathering projects to improve working conditions globally.
“ Over the course of its Foundation  
Stage Me
mbership, Morrisons has 
shown commitment to the ETI Base Code and its implementation, improving conditions within its supply chains, and active involvement with  the ETI Secretariat. This is a testament to their hard work and commitment  to ensuring workers’ rights around  the globe.”
Peter McAllister
Executive Director, ETI
Member
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
26
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesSupplier working conditions2018/19 focus
Supply chain transparency 
In 2018 we published our tier one Nutmeg factory  
list on our corporate website. Increasing transparency 
will enable us to build a better picture of key risks  
in our supply chains. Going forward we will continue 
to work with Nutmeg suppliers to map out second 
tier production sites. 
Modern slavery and forced labour
Modern slavery and forced labour are issues of 
increasing global concern and continued to be a key 
priority for our business. Please see here  for  
our updated Modern Slavery Act Statement 2018/19.
A further 333 colleagues in our People, Corporate 
Services, Manufacturing and Logistics teams 
completed a modern slavery awareness eLearning 
module, taking the total number of colleagues  
trained to 870. We also trained an additional  
142 Commercial colleagues on Ethical Trading and  
Modern Slavery Awareness.
Morrisons has committed to support the Apparel 
and General Merchandise Public and Private Protocol, working together with other retailers and Labour 
Market Enforcement Bodies to protect vulnerable  
and exploited workers in apparel and general 
merchandise supply chains.
Hand car washes were identified by the Department 
of Labour Market Enforcement as a priority risk for 
forced labour and exploitation. Morrisons operates 
twelve franchised hand car wash operations 
in store car parks, with plans to expand in 2019. 
We collaborated with other UK retailers and regulatory 
bodies including the GLAA and Environment Agency 
to develop and launch the Responsible Car Wash 
Scheme open to all hand car wash operations. 
Accredited status will ensure sites operate legally and 
responsibly, allowing customers to make an informed 
choice about which provider they wish to use.
We also formalised our membership of the  
Mekong Club, a Hong Kong based anti-slavery 
partnership and signed their Business Pledge Against 
Modern Slavery. Our Global Sourcing team in  
Hong Kong meet regularly to discuss improvements 
to our regional strategy and are developing a training 
programme for our colleagues and suppliers for 
implementation in 2019/20.Collaborative working
Our Ethical Trading team travelled to Puglia, Italy with 
LDH (La Doria), a key supplier of our tomato products. 
We witnessed the tomato harvest and canning 
process and reviewed La Doria’s sourcing structure 
and social responsibility programme. We also spoke 
with farmers and representatives from La Doria to 
discuss how best practice can be promoted in the 
Italian tomato supply chain. We plan to visit our 
suppliers again in 2019 to understand the challenges 
faced by Italian growers, focusing on responsible 
recruitment practices.
Through our sponsorship of Stronger Together,  
we continue to work in collaboration with other  
UK supermarkets to build awareness of modern 
slavery and improve outcomes for victims. In 2018  
we supported the expansion of their programme into 
South Africa and are active members of the project 
Steering Group. 62 workshops were held across 
major fruit and wine growing regions and over 150 
employees from Morrisons suppliers benefited from 
attending these sessions.
In January 2019 we increased support for suppliers 
in the lower tiers of our supply chain by joining the 
Food Network for Ethical Trade (FNET). FNET is a 
collaborative initiative which brings together major UK 
supermarkets and over 30 large UK food suppliers to 
improve human rights in global supply chains through 
a common approach to managing ethical trade. 
The initiative provides tools, support and guidance 
for our tier one suppliers to assess risk in their global 
ingredient supply chains and take ownership for 
driving improvement.We collaborated with other UK supermarkets, ETI, 
the Fresh Produce Consortium and suppliers to 
fund and develop an online training programme for 
UK farmers and processors to improve standards 
and safety of accommodation for temporary and 
seasonal workers. The programme will be launched 
in early 2019 and supported by colleagues in our 
Produce Technical Team. This initiative was nominated 
in the Best Collaborative Effort category at the 2019 
Sedex awards.
We are one of ten core member organisations of 
the Indirect Procurement Human Rights Forum. As a 
group we aim to protect and respect the human 
rights of workers in our indirect procurement supply 
chains including labour provision, security, waste 
management, cleaning and catering services. In 2018 
we focused on increasing transparency of these 
supply chains by improving the capability of the 
Sedex platform. We contributed to revisions of the 
current self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) to make 
it more relevant to service providers, ahead of its 
launch in late 2019.
2019/20 FOCUS
Build internal capacity to manage incidents of modern 
slavery and provide positive outcomes for victims
Increase visibility and oversight in the lower tiers  
 of key supply chains
Review and update our Ethical Trading Policy  
and Supplier HandbookEnsuring fair working conditions for workers in our supply chain
continued
ETHICAL TRADING INITIATIVE MEMBERSHIP
We are now full members of the 
Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI), a 
leading UK alliance of companies, 
trade unions and NGOs that 
promotes respect for workers’ 
rights around the globe. This follows two years of work  
to demonstrate our commitment 
to successfully implementing an 
effective ethical trading programme 
in our business and supply chain. 
This is a significant milestone for 
Morrisons and brings us more closely 
in line with our direct competitors. We are active members of several key 
working groups including: Vulnerable 
workers in Italian Agriculture; UK 
Caravan Accommodation Standards; 
Modern Slavery; and Thailand. 
We also support projects in Peru and 
South Africa through representation 
by our colleagues from our At Source 
Technical team.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
27
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Healthier lifestyles CommunitiesSupplier working conditionsThe UK consumes more sugar, saturated 
fat and salt and less fruit, vegetables, fibre and oily fish than is recommended. 
As a food retailer, we must provide 
healthier choices to our customers. We continue to be challenged by the Government, media and consumer groups to improve the nutritional profile of our products. Providing our customers with healthier options and reformulating our products reflects the social need of our customers. Making it easier for our customers to live healthier lives
V Taste 
vegan range  
launched613  
tonnes sugar removed  
from Morrisons  
branded products
2.45 bn
calories removed from 
Morrisons branded products
Little Kitchen  
range launched
OUR COMMITMENTS AND PERFORMANCE SUMMARYOur approach
We are taking a range of measures to help our 
customers make healthier choices, including product reformulation, clear nutritional information, healthier ranges and strong promotions on fruit and vegetables.
To help customers make quick and informed 
decisions about the food they buy we have rolled out colour coded nutrition labels to our own brand pre-packed food and drink. In addition, we display calorie information  
on our customer café menus. 
“ Children aged four to six years old have differen
t nutritional requirements to 
toddlers and may not be quite ready  to eat the same meals as mum and dad. It can be tricky for parents to know what to feed their children during this transitionary stage so we’ve launched the Little Kitchen range to give them  a hand.”
Joanne Watson
Morrisons Little Kitchen BuyerUN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
Customer insight survey 2018/19 ranking
15 ACCURATE PRODUCT LABELLING  (2017/18: 16th)
22 SELLING HEALTHY PRODUCTS (2017/18:  19th )
29 SELLING VEGAN AND PLANT BASED PRODUCTS NEW
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
28
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions CommunitiesHealthier  lifestyles2018/19 focus
Morrisons brand nutrition reformulation
Following the publication of the Government’s 
Childhood Obesity Plan in 2018 we updated our Morrisons branded nutrition policy to support the Government’s ambitions to promote healthier choices for children.
We continued to improve the nutrition profile of all 
Morrisons branded products, which was underpinned by a comprehensive programme of reformulation  
to ensure delivery of salt and sugar targets and planning for calorie initiatives. 
In 2018/19, 2.45bn calories, 613.6 tonnes of sugar and 
13.8 tonnes of salt were removed from Morrisons branded products.Little Kitchen range
We launched our new ‘Little Kitchen’ range  
replacing our previous ‘Just for Kids’ range. The range 
is developed for children aged four to six years  
old and supports responsible nutrition credentials placing strict limits on salt, saturated fat and sugar  
and encouraging the use of five-a-day within the product formulation. All products have been taste approved by children. Purchases of Little Kitchen support our charity partner CLIC Sargent through  
an annual donation.
Fresh Ideas
We launched our new ‘Fresh Ideas’ brand in fresh  
meal solutions. Every product in the range supports  
a positive nutritional claim of either high in protein  
or fibre and supports a five-a-day claims wherever  
possible. 
We also launched four new ‘Fresh Ideas’ breakfast 
pots to help our customers enjoy a nutritious breakfast on-the-go. The range also includes vegan and vegetarian options.
Eat Smart new endorsed policy 
We updated our Eat Smart criteria to ensure only 
products that fit within the UK Government Eatwell Guide  will carry the Eat Smart endorsed logo on pack. Labelling 
We remain committed to our clear front-of-pack 
multiple traffic light labelling on Morrisons branded products. We updated our front-of-pack multiple traffic light colours inline with industry best practice to ensure clear and consistent labelling. 
We also continued to provide calorie labelling in  
our customer café’s.
Demand for vegan and plant-based foods
At Morrisons, we want to offer our customers a 
choice of products that suits their lifestyle choices.There is an increasing trend for people to reduce  
or remove animal products from their daily diets.  
As a result, we’ve seen a greater demand for vegan and plant-based alternatives in our stores. 
‘V Taste’ vegan range
In 2018, we launched ‘V Taste’ vegan range. The range 
initially launched with 18 products covering fresh  
and frozen meal solutions. We are looking to grow  
‘V Taste’ further throughout 2019/20. 
Promoting plant-based eating 
We continued to run our ‘V Taste’ vegan range  
on multisave promotions. 
We have dedicated bays in stores as well as  
a dedicated vegan section on Morrisons.com  
where customers can easily locate products and 
current offers.
We continue to run various promotions on thousands 
of fresh fruit and vegetables throughout the year through our Price Crunch campaign, reducing prices by an average of 18%.Dairy alternatives
We launched a range of ten dairy alternative milk 
and cheese products in late 2018. The range covers non-dairy milks such as almond non-dairy milk as well as flavoured soya drinks. We aim to introduce more flavoured non-dairy milk, yoghurt and cheese alternatives in 2019/20. 
On-pack labelling on vegan products 
We updated the labelling of more than 300 Morrisons 
branded products to help customers easily identify which products are vegan at shelf-edge. This work will be continuing throughout 2019 and any new products that meet our vegan guidelines will carry a vegan logo on pack.
Free fruit for kids 
All Morrisons stores now offer free fruit to customers 
with children whilst shopping in our stores helping them to get one of their five-a-day.
Eat Fresh boxes
We launched our Eat Fresh online delivery boxes  
for two to four people, which include pre-portioned 
ingredients and meal kits. The Eat Fresh boxes can be tailored to include healthier choices, recipes under 550 calories as well as vegan and vegetarian options. 
2019 FOCUS
V Taste range to be expanded
Continued own brand reformulationMaking it easier for our customers to live healthier lives
continued
RELAUNCH OF COUNTED RANGE
In January 2019 we launched our new Counted  
to replace our Eat Smart healthier ready meal range. 
We changed our nutritional policy to be more  
reflective of current nutrition advice regarding the 
composition of a healthier diet. We improved the  
design so customers can clearly see the calorie contents of each product. Each meal in the Fresh or Frozen  
range has fewer than 450 calories and products are low in fat with limited additional sugar and salt. So far the  
range is performing well with sales +18% year on year. 
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
29
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions CommunitiesHealthier  lifestylesOur stores play an active and positive 
role in their local community. 
Doing so helps us support causes 
close to the hearts of our colleagues and customers. Making a positive difference to the communities we serve
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
Customer insight survey 2018/19 ranking
25 GOOD CAUSES IN THE COMMUNITY (2017/18: 22nd)
28 RAISING MILLIONS FOR CHARITY (2017/18:  26th)£3.6 m
Raised for charity partner 
CLIC Sargent 
(2017/18: £3.4m)Quieter 
Hour
launched
£5.5 m
Grants donated to charities 
through Morrisons 
Foundation
Defibrillator 
rollout 
in stores and sites  
now completeOUR COMMITMENTS AND PERFORMANCE SUMMARYOur approach
We use our position at the heart of local 
communities to raise millions of pounds for charity every year. 
“ The support from Morrisons colleagues and custo
mers has been amazing.  
The money raised has helped us provide a range of services to young cancer patients and their families including vital grants to help with  the additional costs of cancer, and  a new team of nurse educators to train healthcare professionals in caring for children with cancer.”
Joanna Hancock
Head of Corporate Partnerships  
CLIC Sargent
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
30
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestylesCommunities2018/19 focus
CLIC Sargent and charities
In 2018/19 we raised £3.6m for our national charity 
CLIC Sargent, the UK’s leading charity for children  
and young people with cancer, taking the total  
to over £7m raised in two years. In 2018 collections  
in our stores raised £2m for the British Legion Poppy Appeal, £600,000 for the Marie Curie Daffodil Appeal, £167,000 for the DEC’s Indonesian Tsunami Appeal and £90,000 for Children In Need. Community Champions in all our stores and sites provided product donations and helped raise money for thousands of local charities and good causes.Morrisons Foundation
The Morrisons Foundation continues to support 
charities making a positive difference in local communities. In the last year the Foundation  
donated over £5.5m in grants to more than  
440 charity projects across England, Scotland and Wales. The majority of the Morrisons Foundation’s donations were awarded to charities close to  
a Morrisons store, supporting our aim to make  
a positive contribution to the communities we  
serve. In addition to grant awards, the Foundation  
also provided match funding of more than £325,000 to boost the funds that Morrisons colleagues raise  
for their chosen charities. 
Dementia research programme
Over the last three years we’ve donated  
£750,000 to University College London to help 
fund a new Dementia Research Centre. The centre will lead national and international efforts to find effective treatments and improve the lives of those with dementia.
Foodmaker & Shopkeeper Tours
Last year we introduced new store tours to inspire 
the next generation of foodmakers and shopkeepers. The sessions are hosted by our Community Champions and are designed to educate and engage primary school children about how supermarkets work and where food comes from. Children meet our trained Market Street experts, taste some of products and take part in a quiz to test their new found knowledge.Beach cleans 
In response to customer concerns about plastic 
pollution, teams of our colleagues volunteered  
to take part in litter picks in their area. The largest activity took place at Blackpool and Filey beaches where teams of around 60 colleagues were led by the SeaLife Centre and Yorkshire Wildlife Trust respectively. 
Disaster Emergency Committee
In late 2018, a tsunami struck the Indonesian island  
of Sulawesi. As well as destroying tens of thousands 
of homes, at least 2,100 people were killed and  
4,400 were seriously injured. We supported the Disaster Emergency Committee’s appeal and  
together Morrisons colleagues and customers raised £167,319 to help donate food, shelter and sanitation  
to provide relief to the affected communities.
Buy One Donate One sanitary protection initiative
We launched an initiative to donate 250,000 
sanitary products to women in period poverty in partnership with food redistribution charity FareShare. We donated a pad for every pack of own brand sanitary protection bought in store and online. The products were delivered to FareShare to distribute to charities and community groups supporting women and girls, through its network  
of 21 regional centres.Community rooms 
As well as providing support through fundraising 
and donations, we also want to play an active role in our communities by introducing free Community Rooms in some of our stores. In 2018 we introduced six Community Rooms, with more scheduled for 2019. The rooms are popular with charities and community groups and have been used to host health classes,  
local residents’ meetings and MP’s surgeries.
Defibrillators
In 2018/19 we completed the installation of  
defibrillators in all of our stores and sites. This was  
done in partnership with St John Ambulance following  
a donation from the Morrisons Foundation. Over  
the past year our colleagues and customers have  
saved 21 lives using the defibrillators and the initiative  
has won the Workplace Heroes category at  
St John Ambulance’s national Everyday Heroes 
awards. The lifesaving units also help people in our communities too as the defibrillators are registered with local ambulance services. This means that the ambulance call handler can direct the public to our store if that’s where the nearest defibrillator is located.
BEYOND 2020
Extended partnership with CLIC Sargent
Continued donations through  
Morrisons Foundation Making a positive difference to the communities we serve
continued
QUIETER HOUR
We’ve worked with the National Autistic Society 
(NAS) and local community groups to create ‘Quieter Hour’ on Saturday mornings in our stores. Quieter Hour aims to make the store environment quieter and calmer for customers with autism.
This includes dimming the lights, turning off any music 
and removing tannoy announcements. 
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
31
Contents Strategy and approach Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summary Assurance
Supporting British Food safety Plastics Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthier lifestylesCommunitiesOngoing engagement with our stakeholders
Engaging with our stakeholders enables us to identify issues  
and opportunities and respond to changing needs.
STAKEHOLDERS HOW WE LISTENED WHAT OUR STAKEHOLDERS CARE ABOUT EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT
CommunitiesCouncil correspondence, letters and 
surveys, local news, social media.Our communities want us to be an active neighbour, to support the  
causes that matter to them and make a positive difference through  
acting responsibly and thoughtfully.• £5.5m donated to local community groups through Morrisons Foundation
• Quieter Hour introduced in stores for customers with autism
• Community rooms established for local community group use in stores
• Colleague beach cleans organised near to coastal stores
CustomersCustomer listening groups, sales of 
products, customer insight survey, 
social media, correspondence.We know that customers recognise that sustainability issues are important.  
They want us to make it easier for them to be supportive through healthier  
and more responsible buying habits, without additional cost.• Helping customers to reduce their plastic by removing plastic bags for produce, 
offering more loose fresh fruit and veg to customers, paper carrier bag introduced
• V Taste vegan range launched
• Free fruit for kids rolled out across all stores 
• Eat Fresh boxes launched to help customers manage food in the home
ColleaguesColleague Your Say forums, internal 
communications, Your Say surveys, 
colleague social media platforms, 
CR initiatives.Our colleagues care about how we look after them, from their progression  
within the business to their engagement. They want to be treated equally  
and be rewarded by their commitment.• Store programme for women in leadership launched
• My Performance online tool for every colleague
• Your Say forums established 
•  Over 500 Craft Apprenticeships launched
Government  
and regulatorsFormal enquiries, meetings, trade 
associations,  social media, visits.Government policy implemented through legislation, regulation and,  
increasingly, sector specific voluntary agreements which forms the back drop  
to our operational activity.• Working with DEFRA and WRAP to provide insight for Government’s 
Environmental Plan to increase loose fresh fruit and vegetables 
• Providing written evidence to Government on progress against UN Sustainable 
Development Goals 
InvestorsEnquiries, surveys, Annual General 
Meeting, meetings.Investors scrutinise our activity on a range of environmental and social measures 
as well as financial performance, to ensure investment risks are limited.• Completion of Carbon Disclosure Project for carbon 
• Responding to investor enquiries on sustainable supply chains and science 
based targets
Non-Governmental  
Organisations 
(NGOs)Enquiries, surveys, collaborative 
projects, visits, meetings, blogs, 
social media.NGOs care about the impact we have on the environment and society.  
They ask us to make changes to the way we operate to help address  
a particular topical issue.• Responding to Greenpeace’s survey on plastics activity
• Working with environmental communications charity, Hubbub, on their initiative 
to increase recycling in the city of Leeds 
• Working with food redistribution charity, FareShare, to increase surplus 
redistribution in our manufacturing sites
SuppliersGSCOP, conferences, meetings, 
visits, audits and surveys.We trade with companies all around the world and our challenge is to ensure 
that their operation is aligned with our values, policy and responsible business 
practices. Through our terms of trade, monitoring processes, technology, supply 
chain management, certification and auditing we work hard to ensure compliance.• Searching for the best local suppliers as part of Local Foodmakers initiative
• Supporting #Farm24 event to promote British farming 
• Working with 250+ farmers to reduce on-farm waste through Naturally 
Wonky range 
IndustryBritish Retail Consortium (BRC) 
working groups, IGD working 
groups, industry conferences, 
collaborative projects. We know the positive impact working collaboratively as an industry can have to 
help tackle the issues that affect our society and environment. In some cases, 
joining forces is the only way to create meaningful change. • Working with industry to reform the way we use plastics through UK Plastics PACT
• IGD Food Waste Task and Finishing Group to establish a food waste reduction 
road map for the food industry
• Working with industry to improve sustainability of soy supply chains
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
32
Contents Strategy and approach Why it matters Performance summary Assurance Our focus areas
GovernanceStakeholder engagementEmbedding sustainability into our business
Corporate governance facilitates effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that delivers long term success. It is driven by the  
leaders of a Company who come together regularly. They operate within established values to determine strategy as distinguished from  
the day-to-day operational management. Our corporate responsibility programme is formally incorporated into our governance structures.
Executive Committee
Implementation measures and performance are reported to  
the Executive Committee which is chaired by our Chief Executive. 
The Executive Committee is responsible, amongst other matters, 
for the development and implementation of our strategy (subject to the overall supervision by the Main Board), financial performance, reporting and control, risk management and the development of corporate policies and procedures for the Group. The central commitments and KPIs for the corporate responsibility programme are managed on an ongoing basis under the stewardship of relevant Executive Committee Directors who are assessed alongside their wider performance as part of their Professional Development Review (PDR).Corporate Responsibility 
commitments and KPI owners 
Across the business we have a key contact for 
each commitment and KPI. 
These contacts are responsible for day-to-day 
management and progress. They work alongside our stakeholders to ensure we are effectively managing the issues that matter to our business. Each contact is required to provide updates to the Corporate Responsibility team and their relevant Executive Committee Director.
Corporate Compliance and  
Responsibility Committee
Development and progress in our sustainability agenda are reported at the highest level to the Corporate Compliance  
and Responsibility Committee (CCR).
The CCR meets at least three times a year and performs an 
oversight, monitoring and advisory role for key areas of corporate governance and development, including health and safety, environment, competition, regulatory ethical compliance and corporate responsibility.Store Managers
Morrisons CR agenda is embedded in  
a Store Manager’s operational activity in  
a variety of ways.
For example, stores are measured on their 
waste and markdowns as a percentage of sales, and water and energy use as profit and loss. Responsible business strategy is communicated to Store Managers via training, Internal Communications and retail operations. 
Store Managers provide feedback on their 
performance centrally via reports, surveys and data management systems. Shop floor colleagues
Shop floor colleagues are asked to take part and drive Morrisons CR agenda through various internal initiatives and campaigns. For example, Energywise, unsold food to charity, community champion activity. 
Site colleagues 
Site colleagues drive Morrisons CR agenda through various on-site initiatives. For example, there are waste champions in every site that are responsible for removing unnecessary waste from their operations. Your Say forums are also in place to improve engagement and generate ideas  
for business efficiencies. Site Managers
Site Managers are aware of the CR issues that  
are most prevalent for their site operations. 
For example, health and safety, animal welfare, 
energy and waste are high on their agenda. Sites are required to report environmental data to the Environment Agency as part of their legal requirements. Health and Safety reporting is through line management and reported/collated  
by HR on site.
Responsible business strategy is communicated  
to Site Managers via training and Internal  
Communications. “ At our store we take corporate 
respon
sibility very seriously. It’s part of 
business as usual, whether it’s reducing our energy, removing unnecessary food waste, keeping our colleagues happy  and motivated or working with local charities and food banks through our Community Champion activity.”
Morrisons Store Manager
“ We are encouraged to put forward  ideas to m
ake our workplace better,  
it can be anything from colleague engagement to reducing waste or energy.”
 Morrisons Manufacturing colleague
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
33
Contents Strategy and approach Why it matters Performance summary Assurance Our focus areas
Stakeholder engagementGovernanceOur focus areas in detail
FOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2017/18 2018/19 UPDATE
Help British farmers  
to be sustainable, 
profitable and competitiveFood safety and 
animal welfare.To roll out Red Tractor Plus standard across our fresh British pork by 2018. Complete. Red Tractor Pork Plus completed.
Approach being considered for other livestock sectors.
High quality, competitive 
British beef.Establish Beef Shorthorn as the breed for our 'Best' range of beef in all stores by 2019. Complete. Now established as business as usual.
Animal welfare. All Morrisons branded fresh shell eggs will be from non-caged hens by 2025. We have been awarded the Compassion in World Farming Good Egg award having announced that we will be cage-free for shell eggs by 2022 and ingredient eggs by 2025.
Integrated dairy beef supply chains.To secure 10,000 dairy cattle per year through alliances with our milk processors and  
their farmers by 2018.Integrated dairy beef chain well established within Woodheads. Working group set up between Arla, Buitelaar and Woodheads-Morrisons to establish best practice principles for raising dairy beef cattle.
Improving quality. To establish a programme to improve eating quality of British fresh pork in stores by 2018. Complete. Now established as business as usual.
Animal welfare. Create a reference guide for all our pig farmers on environmental enrichment  
to improve animal welfare by 2017.Complete. Now established as business as usual.
Create a reference guide for all our pig farmers on free farrowing to improve animal  
welfare by 2018.Complete. Will be published on Morrisons Farming website in Summer 2019.
NEW:  Refresh and communicate welfare policies and introduce measures/indicators  
for welfare issues.All livestock species going into our fresh food supply now have key welfare indicators set against them for monthly reporting. Transparency introduced by publication of first Morrisons ‘Farm Animal Health and Welfare’ report.
Overuse/misuse of antibiotics in farming.To establish monitoring of antibiotic use and continuous improvements in chicken,  
eggs and pork by 2017.Antibiotic use monitoring in these sectors now business as usual.
NEW:  Implement reduction policies across all species. Introduce measures and metrics  
for restricted Critically Important Antibiotics (CIAs), and the elimination of colistin  
and routine use.As of 2019, no pigs coming to Woodheads for our fresh pork range have received  
a treatment of a critically important antibiotic (as defined by the EMA) or colistin. 
We stand by the RUMA definition of routine use of antibiotics and have asked our supply 
chain to ensure they are not routinely using antibiotics.
NEW:  Commit to publishing annual report on key health and welfare livestock outcomes 
on website.
NEW:  Introduce and report on independently audited bespoke Morrisons standards for 
chicken and pork sectors.NEW:  Commit to regularly updated progress on removal of routine use of antibiotics and 
removal/reduction of critically important antibiotics for human health in livestock sectors.NEW:  Working with leading academics, commit to delivering practical research projects 
for broiler, laying hen and pork sectors. Focus: environmental enrichment to benefit 
livestock welfare.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
34
Contents Strategy and approach Performance summary Assurance Our focus areas Why it mattersOur focus areas in detail
continuedFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2017/18 2018/19 UPDATE
Ensuring food 
safety, quality and provenance of our productsFoodborne bacteria. We will meet FSA targets on campylobacter levels year-on-year. 0.4% of Morrisons branded chickens tested contained higher levels of campylobacter. Met FSA 
targets for the fourth consecutive year. 
Provenance of international foods. We will build closer working relationships with our growers through engagement  
with our international ‘At Source’ Technical team.Over 5,000 supplier visits through international ‘At Source’ technical teams. 
Reduce, reuse and 
recycle the plastic we usePlastic packaging. By 2025, all own brand plastic packaging will be recyclable, reusable or compostable. 81% own brand plastic packaging is recyclable by weight: 54,932 tonnes. We have improved our 
data to now include wholesale and online sales. 
67% widely recycled: 36,933 tonnes. 
14% recycle with bags at larger stores: 7,545 tonnes.
9% check locally: 4,999 tonnes.
10% not currently recycled: 5,447 tonnes. 
NEW:  By 2025, we will reduce own brand plastic packaging use by 25% (2017 baseline). 2017/18 Morrisons branded plastic packaging (baseline): 55,356 tonnes. 
2018/19 Morrisons branded plastic packaging: 54,932 tonnes.Like-for-like reduction (excluding wholesale and online) of 5% in plastic use: 52,722 tonnes. Increased sales in online have contributed to 2018/19 overall plastic use. 
Base material Weight (tonnes) Percentage
Plastic 54,932.41 49%
Glass 23,175.83 21%
Paper 23,265.15 21%
Steel 8,421.66 8%
Aluminium 1,122.42 1%
Wood 3.44 0%
Other 367.56 0%
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
35
Contents Strategy and approach Performance summary Assurance Our focus areas Why it mattersOur focus areas in detail
continuedFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2017/18 2018/19 UPDATE
Reduce operational 
waste and carbon 
emissionsCarbon emissions. 30% absolute reduction in operational carbon emissions by 2020 (2005 baseline). 45% reduction in operational carbon emissions. 
Science-based target to be launched later in the year. 
Reduce food wasteMeasurement 
and reduction. NEW:  We will reduce operational food waste by 50% by 2030 (2016 baseline). Store operational food waste 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19
Total food sales (tonnes) 4,097,841 4,041,575 3,911,799
Total food waste (tonnes) 16,141 15,253 14,023
Food waste as % of sales 0.39% 0.38% 0.36%
Surplus food donated (units) 2.3m 1.1m 1.7m 
13% reduction in store operational food waste since 2016/17. This has been achieved through a 
number of in-store measures including the introduction of Morrisons ordering, an automated 
stock management system as well as improvements in store markdown procedures.
In 2018/19, we improved our methodology to measure store food waste by weight. 
Working with our Business Intelligence teams, we have better SKU level information which has 
further improved accuracy. For consistency, our 2017/18 store food waste by weight figures 
have been revised to reflect this.
At present, a proportion of surplus food we record as waste is, in fact, utilised for meals in 
colleague canteens or distributed as colleague sales. A proportion of food waste on Market 
Street counters and café food waste is not currently captured in our figures but we are 
working to address this.
Food is placed in waste bins at the back of stores and is collected by waste contractors to go 
to anaerobic digestion, composting, controlled combustion and, as a last resort, landfill.
For a breakdown of store waste collected at the back of stores and its recycling, please refer to 
page 19 of this Report.
In early 2019, we began a trial to segregate all operational food waste from stores and logistics 
sites to go directly to anaerobic digestion with the view to rolling this out across the estate.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
36
Contents Strategy and approach Performance summary Assurance Our focus areas Why it mattersOur focus areas in detail
continuedFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2017/18 2018/19 UPDATE
Reduce food waste  
continuedRedistribution. We will double the amount of food redistributed by 2020 (2016 baseline). Surplus redistribution 2016/17 (tonnes) 2017/18 (tonnes) 2018/19 (tonnes)
Charities and local community groups 796/1.8m  
meals645/1.5m  
meals1,460/3.4m  
meals
Company Shop 1,116 1,599 2,094
7,710 tonnes redistributed since 2016/17 across stores, manufacturing sites, distribution centres, 
online spokes as well as supply chain. Surplus food donated by Morrisons branded suppliers 
to FareShare is not captured in these calculations. In 2018/19, we continued to develop 
our relationship with FareShare in eight of our manufacturing sites as well as through our 
wholesale operation. 
Customer food waste. We will help to reduce the amount of food and drink our customers  
waste in the home.Eat Fresh boxes launched online providing customers pre-portioned ingredients and recipes 
helping to reduce unnecessary waste at meal times. 
Continued support of WRAP’s Love Food Hate Waste campaign. 
Look after  
our colleaguesLearning and  
Development.We will continue to invest in My Job training, providing colleagues with the skills  
to do their job properly.We continued to roll out My Job Programmes across all business areas.
In retail, 1,079 Senior Managers and 2,941 Team Managers attended role specific My Job 
Programme training. In addition to this, colleagues from our initial 15 ‘Customers First’ stores 
attended My Job Programme training with a further 20 ‘Customers First’ stores planned 
for 2019.
The rollout of My Job training continued for all supply chain colleagues in 2018. My Job Trading 
looked at routines and practices to improve standardisation and we created a Buyer training 
plan to embed this.
In manufacturing and logistics through My Job we will deliver bite-sized modules on 
performance management, commercial and financial awareness, health and safety culture  
and managing diverse teams.
We will hold a career conversation with every colleague each year to establish their  
career aspirations and how we can support those aspirations.We launched ‘My Performance’ online system to fully automate the mid and end of year 
review process. The new system includes a section called ‘My Career’ to help support 
conversations and to capture career aspirations. In 2019 we will launch a new Ways of  
Working toolkit hosted under My Performance with easy access to different tools to  
support colleague-led personal development.
We will deliver programmes across the business to enable colleagues to progress  
in their career.We launched a new Pathway programme for our work level five colleagues to progress to work 
level six, which is also a cross-team programme with colleagues from retail, manufacturing 
and logistics.
We also encouraged our retail colleagues to apply for the Pathways programme using a new 
communications campaign, resulting in over 850 applications.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
37
Contents Strategy and approach Performance summary Assurance Our focus areas Why it mattersOur focus areas in detail
continuedFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2017/18 2018/19 UPDATE
Look after  
our colleagues  
continuedLearning and  
Development.  
continuedWe will maximise the potential of our apprenticeship levy to enable colleagues  
to gain new skills and progress in their career.We’ve successfully expanded our craft apprenticeships into Scottish and Welsh stores and 
continue to develop craft apprentices in English stores . In total, we now have 466 placements 
with plans to recruit a further 300 in September 2019. 
We’ve have recruited a further 17 Engineering Apprentices, 12 Finance Apprentices,  
53 new Degree Apprentices and launched 17 apprenticeships in our Technology team, with  
a view to achieving similar numbers in September 2019.
Diversity. Through our career programme, we will continue to progress a diverse range  
of colleagues reflective of the communities we serve.Increased the number of female store managers from 34 (7%) to 86 (18%) in 2017. 
Diversity working groups established in five key priorities: gender, culture, disability, parents  
and careers and LGBT+.
Engagement. We will continue to increase overall engagement through Your Say forums  
year-on-year.Regular Your Say forums in place across the business with two national Your Say forums taking 
place providing colleagues with the opportunity to discuss their point of view to the Chief 
Executive and Group People Director.
Your Say survey: Continued improvement scores on ‘My manager helps and 
supports me’ year-on-year.Response rates for the Your Say survey increased by 10% from 2016 with 81,294 colleagues 
completing the survey. Each business area improved overall engagement scores.
The category relating to my manager and support improved from 67% to 70% and the 
questions “my manager helps and supports me” improved from 73% to 75%.
Wellbeing. In 2017, we will implement wellbeing calendars tailored to each divisional need. Calendar was introduced in January 2017 and has been issued monthly to retail, manufacturing 
and logistics.
In 2017, we will establish a wellbeing programme tailored to specific challenges  
within each function.Introduced Health Surveillance schemes across both manufacturing and retail.
Physio provided to our sites to support colleagues to maintain attendance or return to 
work quicker.
We will review colleague benefits to improve financial wellbeing by end of 2017. Introduced MyPerks online discount site to help our colleagues money go further. 
Introduced a new pension scheme to allow lower earners the option to save for retirement 
and also benefit from much improved life assurance cover.
Safety. We will improve preventable colleague absence year-on-year. Absence percentages have decreased in 2017 to 3.17%, previous year was 3.54%.
Trialled preventative physio in retail for colleagues with musculoskeletal problems.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
38
Contents Strategy and approach Performance summary Assurance Our focus areas Why it mattersOur focus areas in detail
continuedFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2017/18 2018/19 UPDATE
Source responsiblySeafood. Maintain seafood policies and improvement projects to reduce the environmental  
and social impacts of the seafood we buy.Policies maintained as well as continued support of a variety of improvement projects and 
academic research on social and environmental impacts. 
Support the work of Project UK for six UK fisheries to achieve Marine Stewardship Council certification by 2018.Continue to support the work of Project UK. We have extended our support to an additional two fisheries as part of this initiative. The original six fisheries are expected to receive certification in 2022. 
Revision of seafood sourcing policy. Expected to be complete in 2019/20. 
Palm oil. Continue to monitor compliance to policy requirements that all palm oil and  
derivatives used in Morrisons branded products are Roundtable on Sustainable  
Palm Oil (RSPO) certified. Annual updates provided to the RSPO as part of Annual Communication of Progress which  
can be found at: https://rspo.org/members/acop 
Timber. All timber and timber derived products must be third party certified sustainable. 78% of wood and wood derived products were Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified, 
approved alternatives or recycled in Morrisons branded household and beauty products and 72% FSC, approved alternatives or recycled in Morrisons branded home and leisure products.
Supplier working 
conditionsModern Slavery. Increased resilience in Morrisons manufacturing and logistics sites. Two modern slavery threat assessments conducted by anti-slavery charity Hope for Justice 
(HFJ) at Morrisons Derby manufacturing site and Morrisons Latimer Park logistics site with one more booked for 2019 at Morrisons Gadbrook manufacturing site. In 2019 we will work in collaboration with HFJ to create and deliver action plans to address any vulnerabilities in our manufacturing and logistics sites. 
We also funded a pilot of independent Stronger Together performance assessments at a 
number of our key UK suppliers and will assess suitability for use in Morrisons manufacturing in 2019.
Develop and roll out updated and revised, bespoke Modern Slavery toolkits  
in our UK supply chain.Expansion of internal existing modern slavery toolkit: worked in collaboration  
with the People, Loss Prevention and Business Continuity teams to develop modern slavery policy for colleagues, management guidance and a labour exploitation and modern slavery incident response guide. Incident response guide was positively reviewed by both Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority (GLAA) and Hope for Justice.
In 2019 we will review and improve our approach to grievance mechanisms and access to 
remedy. We have also signed up to the Retailer Protocol for Handling Reported Cases of Modern Slavery in the UK Supply Chain created by the BRC, GLAA and Stronger Together and communicated this to our suppliers. This protocol encourages suppliers to share details of modern slavery and forced labour incidents in their business and confirms that we will support them throughout with no negative effect on our trading relationships.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
39
Contents Strategy and approach Performance summary Assurance Our focus areas Why it mattersOur focus areas in detail
continuedFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2017/18 2018/19 UPDATE
Supplier working 
conditions  
continuedModern Slavery.  
continuedPublish our second annual statement in line with the requirements of the  
Modern Slavery act.We published our second Modern Slavery Statement in May 2018. Morrisons were 
subsequently ranked joint second in a review of FTSE 100 company compliance with the Act 
by the Business & Human Rights Resource Centre. Our latest statement will be available on our 
corporate website in May 2019. 
Modern slavery awareness & capacity building for smaller UK producers. We supported the development of a new Stronger Together training module on Good 
Practice in Handling Cases of Forced Labour and will recommend this to our UK supplier base 
in 2019. We also commissioned a workshop for UK flower growers on modern slavery risk and 
regulatory compliance, which was delivered in January by the GLAA.
Helping our 
customers to live 
healthier livesObesity. Supporting the following actions of the Government’s Childhood Obesity Plan :
• Public Health England’s reformulation agenda:
 –Working towards 20% sugar reduction in 10 food categories by 2020 
(2015 baseline)
 –Working towards 20% sugar reduction in milk based drinks by 2021 (2017 baseline) 
 –Compliance to salt targets (76 categories) 
 –Working towards 20% calorie reduction by 2024
• Nutrition labelling:
 –Supporting the provision of calorie labelling in the out-of-home setting
 –Supporting transparent front of pack nutrition labelling on pre-packed food 
and drink Total reformulation:  2.45bn calories, 613.6 tonnes sugar and 13.8 tonnes of salt were removed 
from Morrisons branded products. 
Sugar:  508.5 tonnes (2.03bn calories) removed from Morrisons branded products across the  
12 Public Health England sugar categories.  
All Morrisons branded soft drinks were re-developed in April 2018 in response to the Soft 
Drinks Industry Levy removing 450 tonnes of sugar, the equivalent of 1.8bn calories.
Salt: Overall compliance to salt targets has improved by 5% in comparison to 2017/18.
Calories: Programme of delivery has been scoped for reformulation activity.
Supporting local 
communitiesCharity partnerships. Raise at least £2.5m each year for charity partner CLIC Sargent. £3.6m raised - a record breaking year. 
Colleague/customer  
fundraising.Support important campaigns including Poppy Appeal, Children In Need,  
Marie Curie Daffodil Appeal and Walking With The Wounded.Poppy Appeal – £2m - a record breaking year; Children In Need – £89,000; Daffodil Appeal – 
£600,000; Walking With The Wounded – £28,000.
Respond quickly to opportunities to support other causes close to the hearts  
of our colleagues and customers.Disaster Emergency Committee Appeals for Indonesian Tsunami – £165,000.
Local community  
engagement.Continue to make a positive difference in local communities by donating  
over £7.5m in grant awards through the Morrisons Foundation.£5.5m donated to hundreds of charities across England, Scotland and Wales.
Support the causes our colleagues care about by donating £250,000+ in match 
funding to the charities closest to their hearts through the Morrisons Foundation.£300k+ in match funding.
Use the positive sentiment generated by grant donations to engage with the  
media and strengthen relationships with local communities.235 pieces of positive news coverage relating to Morrisons Foundation donations.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
40
Contents Strategy and approach Performance summary Assurance Our focus areas Why it mattersIndependent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors  
of Morrison (WM) Supermarkets plc
The Board of Directors of WM Morrison 
Supermarkets PLC (“Morrisons”) 
engaged us to provide limited 
assurance on the information 
described below and set out in 
Morrisons’ Corporate Responsibility 
Report 2018/19 for the 52 weeks  
ended 3 February 2019.Our conclusion
Based on the procedures we have performed and the 
evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our 
attention that causes us to believe that the Selected 
Information for the 52 weeks ended 3 February 2019 
has not been prepared, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the Reporting Criteria.
This conclusion is to be read in the context of what 
we say in the remainder of our report.
Selected Information
The scope of our work was limited to assurance 
over the information on pages 43 and 44 entitled 
‘KPIs Assured and Basis of Preparation’ in Morrisons’ 
Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19 (the 
“Selected Information”).
The Selected Information and the Reporting Criteria 
against which it was assessed are summarised in 
the table below. Our assurance does not extend 
to information in respect of earlier periods or to 
any other information included in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report 2018/19.
Selected Information Reporting Criteria 
Selected information 
consists of the 4 KPIs on 
pages 43 and 44 entitled 
‘KPIs Assured and Basis 
of Preparation’ of the 
Corporate Responsibility 
Report 2018/19.The reporting criteria as 
included on pages 43 and 44 
entitled ‘KPIs Assured and 
Basis of Preparation’ of the 
Corporate Responsibility 
Report 2018/19.Professional standards applied and level 
of assurance
We performed a limited assurance engagement in 
accordance with International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements 
other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information’, issued by the International Auditing 
and Assurance Standards Board. A limited assurance 
engagement is substantially less in scope than a 
reasonable assurance engagement in relation to 
both the risk assessment procedures, including an 
understanding of internal control, and the procedures 
performed in response to the assessed risks.
Our Independence and Quality Control
We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales (ICAEW) Code of Ethics, which 
includes independence and other requirements 
founded on fundamental principles of integrity, 
objectivity, professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality and professional behaviour.We apply International Standard on Quality Control 
(UK) 1 and accordingly maintain a comprehensive 
system of quality control including documented 
policies and procedures regarding compliance 
with ethical requirements, professional standards 
and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Our work was carried out by an independent 
team with experience in sustainability reporting 
and assurance.
Understanding reporting and measurement  
methodologies
The Selected Information needs to be read and 
understood together with the Reporting Criteria, 
which Morrisons is solely responsible for selecting 
and applying. The absence of a significant body of 
established practice on which to draw to evaluate and 
measure nonfinancial information allows for different, 
but acceptable, measurement techniques and can 
affect comparability between entities and over time. 
The Reporting Criteria used for the reporting of the 
Selected Information are as at 3 February 2019.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
41
Contents Strategy and approach Assurance Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summaryWork done
We are required to plan and perform our work in 
order to consider the risk of material misstatement of 
the Selected Information. In doing so, we:
•  made enquiries of Morrisons’ management, 
including the Corporate Responsibility (CR) team 
and those with responsibility for CR management 
and group CR reporting;
•  obtained an understanding of the design and 
operation of the controls in place in relation to the 
collation and reporting of the selected information, 
including controls over third party information 
(where applicable);
•  made enquiries of relevant company management, 
personnel and third parties;
•  performed analytical procedures related to the 
Selected Information;
•  considered the significant estimates and judgements 
made by management in the preparation of the 
Selected Information;
•  performed limited substantive testing on a selective 
basis of the Selected Information at corporate 
head office and in relation to a number of sites to 
check that data had been appropriately measured, 
recorded, collated and reported; and
•  considered the disclosure and presentation  
of the Selected Information.Morrisons’ responsibilities
The Directors of Morrisons are responsible for:
• designing, implementing and maintaining internal 
controls over information relevant to the 
preparation of the Selected Information that is free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error;
•  establishing objective Reporting Criteria for 
preparing the Selected Information;
•  measuring and reporting the Selected Information 
based on the Reporting Criteria; and
•  the content of the Corporate Responsibility Report 
2018/19.
Our responsibilities
We are responsible for:
•  planning and performing the engagement to obtain 
limited assurance about whether the Selected 
Information is free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error;
•  forming an independent conclusion, based on the 
procedures we have performed and the evidence 
we have obtained; and
•  reporting our conclusion to the Directors 
of Morrisons.This report, including our conclusions, has been 
prepared solely for the Board of Directors of 
Morrisons in accordance with the agreement 
between us, to assist the Directors in reporting 
Morrisons’ corporate responsibility performance and 
activities. We permit this report to be disclosed in the 
Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19 for the 52 
weeks ended 3 February 2019, to assist the Directors 
in responding to their governance responsibilities 
by obtaining an independent assurance report in 
connection with the Selected Information. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept 
or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 
Board of Directors and Morrisons’ for our work or 
this report except where terms are expressly agreed 
between us in writing.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
Chartered Accountants  
Leeds
20 May 2019Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors  
of Morrison (WM) Supermarkets plc
continued
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
42
Contents Strategy and approach Assurance Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summaryKPI BASIS OF PREPARATION
1.  81% own brand primary packaging  
was recyclable by weight• Percentage figure represents Morrisons branded primary packaging placed on to the market during 2018/19 financial year sold in 494 stores as well as in-house purchasing figures  
for Morrisons branded packaging. 
• ‘Primary packaging’ is defined as packaging placed on to the market that a Morrisons customer will take home. 
• ‘Recyclable’ is defined by UK On Pack Recycling Label scheme as:
 –‘Widely recycled’ used when 75% or more of local authorities have kerbside collection facilities for that packaging type in their area; or 
 –‘Recycle with bags at larger stores’ PE Wrap/Film/Bags. 
• Where data over the colour of a packaging layer is not available, an assumption is made that the colour is that of the most common recyclability for that type and material composition.
Exclusion
Gibraltar store is excluded from this report.  
2.  Store operational food waste by  
weight, 14,023 tonnes in 2018/19  
against the baseline 2016/17  
result of 16,141 tonnesData represents food and drink wasted in all 491 stores during 2016/17 and 494 stores in 2018/19 financial years. 
Material type
The scope of the calculation includes both edible and inedible parts, e.g. avocado including stone and skin. 
Data sources 
Food and drink wasted via handheld terminals (HHT) recorded as ‘waste - out of date’ (option 1 on HHT) and ‘waste - damaged’ (option 2 on HHT). 
Breakdown data is provided to our third party data analysts, Valpak, from our Business Intelligence data and IT teams for analysis
Calculations
Valpak analyse each individual product line removing the weight of packaging for each product leaving a weight for food and drink. The weight of the packaging is based on their  
existing calculations they hold for own brand packaging data. 
Destinations
At present, a proportion of surplus food and drink that is wasted via HHTs is used in colleague canteens and in colleague sales. Food and drink waste is placed in waste bins at the back of stores  
and is collected by waste contractors to go to anaerobic digestion, composting, controlled combustion and as a last resort landfill. For a breakdown of store waste collected  
at the back of stores and its recycling, please refer to page 19 of this Report. 
Categories included 
• Ambient, Dairy and Frozen • Chilled • Fresh
Exclusions 
A proportion of food and drink wasted in cafés, staff canteens, operational waste at counters and salad bar are excluded in this calculation.  
Surplus food and drink that has been donated to local community groups.KPIs assured and Basis of Preparation
The following KPIs have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended 3 February 2019.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
43
Contents Strategy and approach Assurance Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summaryKPIs assured and Basis of Preparation
continued
KPI BASIS OF PREPARATION
3.  5.1 million products donated to local 
community groups through Morrisons 
unsold food programmeData represents cumulative donations of 5.1m as 2016/17 2.3m, 2017/18 1.1m and 2018/19 1.7m financial years.  
A single ‘product’ is defined as an item or multiple items packaged together as follows: 
• A single product which is sold in our stores with a price per unit, for example a mango. 
• A multi-pack, for example a pre-packaged bag of apples. 
• A package of multiple items, for example a punnet of strawberries. 
• Multiples of loose produce of the same type packaged into one bag, for example loose onions.
4.  All labels on our pre-packed in-store 
produced products sold during 2018/19 
contain allergens adviceClaim represents in-store produced Morrisons branded products made on Market Street counters. Categories of ‘Market Street’ products included:  
Products purchased directly from wholesalers and re-packaged (e.g. cheese); and products produced in-store using ingredients purchased  
from wholesalers (e.g. pizza). 
Exclusion  
Single ingredient unprocessed meat.
Management’s Statement
The Directors of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC are and shall be responsible for this Management’s Statement and for reporting the four KPIs as at 3 February 2019 in 
accordance with the reporting criteria set out on page 43. In doing so we have:
• designed, implemented and maintained internal controls and processes over information relevant to the measurement and preparation of the four KPIs that is free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
• established objective reporting criteria for measuring and preparing the four KPIs and applied them consistently;
• presented information, including the criteria, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; and
• measured and reported the 4 KPIs based on the reporting criteria.  
Steven Butts  
Head of Corporate Responsibility  
On behalf of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC 
20 May 2019
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2018/19
44
Contents Strategy and approach Assurance Our focus areas Why it matters Performance summaryWm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Hilmore House, Gain Lane 
Bradford BD3 7DL
Telephone: 0845 611 5000
Visit our website: 
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr
Our 2018/19 Annual Report and  
Financial Statements can be found at:  
www.morrisons-corporate.comDesigned and produced by  
Radley Yeldar.  ry.com