Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18LISTENING AND 
RESPONDING
How to use this interactive PDF
• Select the navigation tabs at 
the top of each page to jump 
to the start of that section.
• Click/tap on the Contents 
panel on the right to jump 
to that page.
• Click/tap  or underlined 
links in the copy to jump to 
a page or web-link.Additional buttons:This is Morrisons 12th Corporate 
Responsibility Report. It reports on our 
corporate responsibility programme 
progress and activity from the previous financial year.
This Report should be read together with our 2017/18 Annual Report and Financial Statements, which can be found at: 
www.morrisons-corporate.com /investor-centre
Selected KPIs within this year’s Report have been independently 
assured by our auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP using ISAE 
3000 (revised). The assurance statement can be found on page 46  
of this Report.
Why corporate responsibility matters to Morrisons
It’s about doing the right thing for our customers, colleagues, 
suppliers, shareholders, society and the environment. Doing so 
ensures we remain an efficient and competitive business. Creating a meaningful corporate responsibility programme 
ensures transparency amongst our stakeholders and adds value 
to our business. 
If you would like to comment on our corporate responsibility 
programme, the report itself or any of the issues we highlight, 
please drop us a line at cr@morrisonsplc.co.ukABOUT THIS  
REPORTStrategy and approach
About this report 2
We are food makers and shopkeepers 3
2018 customer insight survey 4
Chief Executive introduction 5
Understanding our changing world  6
Supporting British farmers  7
Changing our use of plastic 9
Tackling food waste 12
What we’ve achieved in 2017/18 15
Farm to fork sustainability 16
Our corporate responsibility strategy 17
Working towards a global agenda 18Why it matters to Morrisons
Ongoing engagement with our stakeholders 38
Embedding sustainability into our business  39
Performance summary
Our focus areas in detail 40
Assurance
Assurance statement  46
KPIs assured and basis of preparation 48
Our focus areas
Ensure authenticity, 
provenance and 
safety of our 
products
21
Reduce general operational 
waste and carbon 
emissions
23
Help British farmers to be competitive, 
affordable and 
sustainable
19
Look after our colleagues
27
Source responsibly
30
Reduce food waste
25
Make it easier for our customers to live 
healthier lives
34
Make a positive 
difference to the 
communities we 
serve
36
Ensure fair working conditions for our 
suppliers
32Go to main contents page
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLCAssurance
2Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Overview Customer insight survey
 Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsWE ARE FOOD MAKERS 
AND SHOPKEEPERS
We are a British born and bred value-led 
grocer. We have grown from a market stall 
to the UK’s fourth largest supermarket 
group with 491 stores. We’re both food makers and shopkeepers, which makes 
us different from our competitors.
Our focus on fresh food is supported by our ‘farm to fork’ 
business model. We buy many of our fresh products directly 
from farmers and fishermen, process through our own 
manufacturing sites and abattoirs and distribute through our own network, the only British supermarket to do so. This gives us more control over the provenance and quality of the food 
we sell in our stores. We have more skilled specialists on hand 
to prepare fresh food in store than any other retailer, with over 9,000 fully trained craftspeople including butchers, bakers, 
fishmongers and cheesemongers. 
Every week, over 11 million customers pass through our doors 
and shop online, and more than 105,000 colleagues across the 
business work hard each day to deliver a great service. Our aim 
is to give our customers more of what matters to them, offering great quality food at low prices.
Established in
1899
105,000
colleagues
9
distribution centres£374m
underlying profit  
before tax
11m
customers in store  
and online each week
18
manufacturing sites2.9%
LFL sales increase
491
stores
4,000
trained butchers, bakers 
and fishmongers
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLCAssurance
3Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Overview Customer insight survey
 Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsEnsuring f ood safety 
Supporting British farmers
Looking after employeesSelling  British products
Trading fairly 
with suppliers Selling locally
sourced productsReducing food waste
Reducing the use of 
antibiotics in farming Selling responsibly 
caught fish and seafoodReducing packaging waste
Ensuring an imal welfareReducing plastic packaging
0250
125 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12
2018 CUSTOMER INSIGHT SURVEY
We ask for feedback from our 
customers on various responsible 
business issues. 
In January 2018, 7,001 customers were asked to 
complete our online survey. 
In the exercise, customers were shown several sets of 
statements and with each set they are asked to select 
the options they consider to be the most and least important. This provides each statement with a score 
out of 100 based on its importance. 
This year, we reviewed the list of issues in our survey 
to ensure that we are using customer friendly 
language that clearly explains each issue. We’ve also 
included two new issues: ‘reducing plastic packaging’ and ‘tackling modern slavery and human trafficking.’ Increase your 
Wonky Veg range 
even more. It’s grown 
massively over the 
past year and just 
represents huge value 
and increasingly less 
waste to the producers. 
It’s also cheaper for 
me. A win-win  We should be 
looking after the 
British farmer 
and reducing 
our dependency 
on buying from 
overseas   Reduce the price of 
fruit and vegetables 
and green light 
products to make 
it easier for low 
paid people to buy 
healthy  7,001
regular customers were surveyed  
(5,628 2016/17)Customers surveyed The top 12 issues that 
matter 
most to our customers: 
 Just get rid of unnecessary  plastic packaging please 
 
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC4
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Customer insight survey Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach ContentsLISTENING AND LEARNING 
FROM OUR CUSTOMERS
Morrisons is now entering its third consecutive year 
of growth. Through the hard work of our colleagues, 
we’ve made good progress in our ‘Fix, Rebuild and 
Grow’ turnaround. As a result, customer satisfaction continues to improve with footfall up 12% since our 
journey started. 
In last year’s Corporate Responsibility Report                
I introduced our core purpose; as food makers and 
shopkeepers to make and provide food we’re all 
proud of, where everyone’s efforts are worthwhile so more and more people can afford to enjoy eating 
well. This will become a guiding principle that helps  
to shape our approach to all that we do.
Listening and responding is also central in helping to 
determine where we focus our responsible business 
work.  For the third year running, we asked our 
customers for feedback on the issues they really  
care about. The top three were ‘ensuring food safety’, 
‘supporting British farmers’ and ‘reducing plastic 
packaging.’ The survey results are published in this report on page 4.
Food safety is central to making and providing 
food we’re all proud of. Whether that means achieving greater control over complex issues 
such as campylobacter or culture of excellence in 
manufacturing, it is always part of what we do.We are UK farming’s biggest customer but also closer than ever to farmers through our expanding 
manufacturing businesses. We bought two new 
manufacturing businesses, Chippindale Foods,               a leading supplier of free range eggs, and Farmcare, 
a potato packing business in Scotland. In addition to 
our existing 16 manufacturing sites, these new parts of our business will create more direct relationships 
with producers, improving quality and efficiency and 
helping to lower costs for our customers. 
Plastic packaging has been the standout emerging 
environmental issue of 2017/18. We’re doing the right 
thing by removing or reducing problematic plastic and packaging where possible. We’ve already made progress by removing the single use carrier bag, plastic 
straws and plastic stem cotton buds – all of these 
things will help to make a real difference. We are also committing our full support to the UK Plastics 
PACT, which, through industry collaboration with 
Government, will transform the UK plastic packaging sector and tackle plastic pollution.
Throughout 2018 and beyond, customers will start to 
see more positive changes in stores and online as we continue to rethink our strategy on plastic packaging. 
This will be achieved through a balanced approach 
so that we do not inadvertently undermine work we have done to reduce food waste and emissions or 
create other sustainable business issues. Surplus food redistribution continues to be a focus 
for Morrisons. We have extended our partnership 
with national redistribution charity, FareShare, into 
our manufacturing sites in 2017 and hit a milestone of 140,000 meals redistributed through this partnership 
alone in just nine months. In addition, we have 
maintained our activity at our stores working with over 400 community organisations, redistributing in 
total over 3.4 million surplus food products from our 
stores by the financial year end.
We’ve reported our carbon emissions figures since 
establishing a baseline in 2005, when we set a target 
to reduce them in absolute terms by 30% by 2020.  I’m pleased that we can report that we hit that target early as we’ve already reached a 34% reduction.  As we 
move forward, so does best practice in how to tackle 
big issues. Looking ahead, this means that our new reduction strategy will be science-based and linked  
to global targets aimed at limiting temperature rises.
David Potts
Chief Executive
Our core purpose will 
become a guiding principle 
that helps to shape our 
approach to all that we do
David Potts, Chief Executive
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC5
Overview Highlights Plastics Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Chief Executive introduction Customer insight surveyCorporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC6
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Supporting British farmers Our value chain Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Global context Customer insight survey
It’s important that we recognise 
and respond to the global 
challenges and trends that           
society faces. 
From climate change and the finite resources we depend on, to the injustice and inequality of the 
communities where we source and sell our food, 
we understand the importance of managing our own business to reduce global risks and maximise 
the opportunities that may come as a result of 
these challenges.Regulatory requirements
The EU non-financial directive requires companies to disclose relevant, useful information that is 
necessary to understand their development, 
performance, position and the impact of their activity. These include environmental; social 
and employee matters; respect of human 
rights; and anti-corruption and bribery matters. The Modern Slavery Act requires commercial 
organisations supplying goods or services to 
prepare and publish an annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. 
Business impact: 
• Financial repercussions
• Reputational impact
• Stakeholder scrutiny and engagement.Climate change and resource scarcity
Climate change is a direct result of human 
activity, from population growth, demand and 
consumption patterns increasing emissions into 
the atmosphere. It is already affecting the way we live today, we see this through severe weather 
patterns, rising temperatures and sea levels causing 
food and resource scarcity and devastation to communities. 
Business impact:
• Security of food supply
• Loss of food quality through changing climate patterns
• Food price inflation
• Loss of livelihoods for Morrisons suppliers
• New markets
• Changing buying habits.
Human rights 
As a business, we are accountable for ensuring that 
the human rights of the people that make and sell 
our products are protected. 
This includes fair working conditions, health and 
safety in the workplace, equal treatment and 
respect for the diverse communities in which 
we operate. 
Business impact:
• Reputational impact
• Exploitation of vulnerable workers in our supply chain 
• Liability for illegal activity.Population growth and urbanisation 
The world’s population is expected to reach over 
9 billion people by 2050. It is also predicted we will 
see a shift in the way the world lives, moving from 
rural areas in favour of urban. These changes could have potential impacts environmentally, socially 
and economically.
Business impact: 
• Food security 
• Increased agricultural production
• Industrial adaptation
• Pressure on finite resources
• Price increases
• Greater number of customers
• Increase in-store openings.
Increasing transparency 
Our stakeholders rightly expect us to be 
transparent about how we operate. They want 
access to our policies on topical issues and 
information on how strategic decisions are made and how we are responding to business challenges.
Business impact:
• Reputational impact
• Stakeholder scrutiny and engagement
• Change in productivity.Data security 
Customer and colleague privacy is extremely 
important. They rightly want to know exactly 
what kind of information we collect and how 
it’s used. It’s important that we are transparent about the data we keep, and the policies and 
procedures we have in place in order to ensure 
information security. 
Business impact:
• Legal repercussions
• Reputational impact
• Poorly managed management systems
• Cost implications
• Robust management systems.Demand for responsible goods 
Customer awareness and demand for responsibly 
made goods continues to grow. It’s our 
responsibility to ensure that the decisions we take 
about how we operate and where we buy from are made with care. It’s about taking responsibility 
for as many stages of the production and supply 
chain as we are able to control or influence. 
Business impact:
• Poorly managed supply chains and 
management systems
• Illegal activity
• Security of supply
• Poor quality goods
• Greater transparency.UNDERSTANDING OUR CHANGING WORLDCorporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC7
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Our value chain Global context Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Supporting British farmers Customer insight survey
SUPPORTING BRITISH FARMERS
British farming today 
In our annual customer insight survey, for the third 
consecutive year ‘Supporting British farmers’ has 
remained one of the top two (out of 28) issues our 
customers really care about. British farming and its long term viability is essential to our business. We take 
pride in the sourcing and production of the food we 
sell, buying British wherever possible. Being both a leading fresh food manufacturer as well as a major 
British retailer allows us to work with local farmers 
and suppliers to create shorter, more efficient supply chains. 
According to a report by Professor Tim Benton at 
the University of Leeds, British farming provides only 52% of the nation’s food. This lack of self-sufficiency 
is a result of a variety of factors including loss of 
funding for agriculture, operational inefficiencies, competitive pricing from international markets, lack 
of infrastructure to meet the demands of our rising 
population and a mixed perception of the quality of British produce. 
Our challenge is to keep the industry competitive, 
affordable, profitable and sustainable. That’s why in 2009, we launched an expert-led farming programme. 
Our programme today covers a broad range of 
issues from keeping British produce competitive with imports, strengthening our commitment to animal 
welfare and tackling broader sustainability issues. 
Through the work of our producer groups it helps us to ensure that the work we do is fully focused on 
current practical issues affecting suppliers and their 
concerns for the future. Our commitment to British food 
Back in 2007, we announced our commitment to buy 
100% fresh British beef, pork, lamb and chicken to sell 
in our stores. 
We have continued to achieve this commitment 
for the past 11 years. We are the largest supermarket 
customer for British farmers sourcing 30,000 pigs, 
4,000 cattle and 11,000 lambs every week.
Through our manufacturing sites, we work directly 
with 3,000 British farmers we know and trust. 80% of 
the 140 pig farmers and 1,700 cattle suppliers only grow their product for Morrisons. 
In 2017, we reinforced our commitment to sell only 
British fresh meat throughout the year. In doing so,    we no longer sell New Zealand and Australian fresh 
lamb during the winter and early spring months.The business case for supporting 
British farmers: 
• Giving customers what they want
• Shorter supply chains• Contributing to the UK economy
• Closer to source
• Securing the best suppliers• Brand integrity and trust.We are the largest 
supermarket customer for British farmers buying 30,000 pigs, 4,000 cattle and 11,000 lambs every weekBritish farming 
provides only 52% 
of the nation’s food
Professor Tim Benton at the University of Leeds
Customer insight survey 2017/18 ranking
Supporting British farmers
2nd 
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
James Kittow,  from 
our local food maker 
event, now supplies 
products into local Morrisons stores. 
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC8
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Our value chain Global context Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach ContentswSUPPORTING BRITISH FARMERS continued
Local food makers
In 2017, we began a search for the next generation 
of local food makers to stock their products in our 
stores. The search meant customers were able to buy more local food in a British supermarket that was 
grown, made, picked or packaged within 35 miles of 
their local store. Suppliers were asked to apply through a dedicated website with selected applicants invited to regional 
showcase events where Morrisons customers, 
colleagues and Women’s Institute members would decide who to take forward. 
As a result of our local food maker events as well as 
our commitment to selling more local products, we are now working with over 200 new local suppliers 
stocking their products in our stores across the UK. Milk for Farmers 
In response to stakeholder challenge on the issue 
of dairy pricing for farmers, we launched our For 
Farmers range in 2015 and became the first UK retailer to create a range where part of the retail price of 
the products goes directly back to farmers. Our Milk 
for Farmers range now comes from a dedicated pool of British farmers, who produce to a higher 
welfare standard.The extra 10p pe litre paid by customers is shared 
among all the British farmers in the dedicated 
Morrisons dairy group. Since the For Farmers  range 
launched we have contributed an additional £9m 
to farmers.
   Read more on our commitment  
to British farming on pages 19 and 20. 2007  
Launched Morrisons 
100% British commitment.
2017  
Dedicated pool of milk supply through our Milk for Farmers range.
Examples of how we’ve continued to support British farmers 2007–present 
2012  
Launch of farming producer groups. 2017  
Morrisons sponsored 24 Hours in Farming event to promote the work of British farmers.
2009  
Morrisons farming programme launched.2010  
First farming report launched online ‘The role of cross-breeding in UK dairy breeding.’ 2012
Meat processing  
site, Winsford acquired. 2013  
Morrisons-farming.com relaunched.
2018  
Free range egg producer, Chippindale Foods acquired.
Supporting British farmers Customer insight survey
2013   
Bi-annual Farming  
Matters newsletter launched.2015  
Milk for Farmers launched.
CHANGING OUR USE OF PLASTIC
Plastic is the environmental issue 
everyone has been talking about. 
In 2017, BBC’s Blue Planet 
demonstrated the detrimental harm leaked plastics can have on 
the marine environment and its 
contribution to climate change. 
Customer insight survey 2017/18 ranking
Reducing plastic packaging 
3rd 
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignmentHow plastics leak into the marine environment
 
Industrial activity:  
 Inadequate disposal of 
equipment/products or 
loss during production 
and transportation. 
Coastal littering:  
Visitors in and around coastal 
areas creating litter that  
is blown or swept into  
the ocean.  
 
Poor waste management:  
Occurs on ineffective or poorly managed  
waste sites, where plastics are blown directly 
into rivers, streams and oceans at site or during 
transportation to the site. In some countries  
where there are no formal waste procedures,  
waste is sometimes placed directly into rivers. 
Wastewater filtering:  
Microbeads as well as 
microfibres from clothing that 
cannot be filtered through 
wastewater treatment. 
 
Storms and natural disasters:  
During storms and heavy rainfall, runoff  
water can pick up waste on land, including  
plastics from car tyres, and end up in our waters  
via drainage. Similarly, sewage waters can  
reach capacity and may be released untreated  
into rivers. Natural disasters can result in a  
variety of plastic waste released into the ocean.  
Source: Grantham Institute, Imperial College LondonIt is predicted that by 2050, there will be more plastic 
in the ocean than fish. 
Ocean plastic is problematic for several reasons:
• it harms and kills marine life; 
• it passes up the food chain through the fish and 
seafood we eat; 
• it takes several years to breakdown and decay; and
• it can subsequently affect the makeup of ecosystems we’re dependent on and contributes to climate change. 
Blue Planet has rightly caused significant stakeholder awareness and concern, Government response, business and industry commitments on plastic 
use and disposal as well as a rise in new market 
alternatives and solutions to plastics. 
  Read more on our commitment to reducing  
 waste on pages 23 and 24. 
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC9
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Plastics Customer insight surveyCHANGING OUR USE OF PLASTIC continued
The plastics on our products 
We’re taking responsibility for the plastic we use, 
in 2018, we announced a commitment that by 2025 
all own brand plastic packaging will be recyclable, 
reusable or compostable. 
As signatories to WRAP’s UK Plastics PACT, we will 
work in collaboration with WRAP, other signatories 
and the industry so that together, by 2025, we aim to:
• eliminate problematic or unnecessary                
single-use packaging through redesign, innovation or 
alternative (re-use) delivery models;
• ensure that in our packaging we have 30% average recycled content across all plastic packaging.
In the short term, we will target problematic plastic 
materials for Morrisons own brand and Market Street 
products including: 
• Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) packaging.
• Black plastic packaging.  
We will also work with our suppliers so that:
• the use of mixed polymers (multi-layers) will be 
avoided wherever possible unless necessary for 
food safety to protect the product or is compatible 
with a recycling system;
• problematic packaging materials that cannot 
be easily recycled through kerbside recycling 
collections should be avoided where suitable alternatives already exist.Own brand primary packaging breakdown
In 2017, own brand primary packaging consisted of: 2O17 own brand primary plastic packaging by weight
 4,546.11t  
(8.2%)
20-75% of local authorities 
collect this packaging type  
for recycling.
Examples include:
Coloured plastic trays,  
pots and lids (aPET/rPET)
 5,748.15t  
(10.4%)
Less than 20% of local  
authorities collect this 
packaging type for recycling.
Examples include:
Black plastic trays 
Expandable polystyrene 
trays (EPS)
Microwavable meal trays 
(PP)
 9,650.96 t 
(17.4%)
Supermarket facilities in  
more than 75% of local  
authority areas.
Examples include:
Bread bags (LDPE)
Packaging films (LDPE)
Cling film (LDPE)
55,356.23 tonnes (t)
Total tonnes of Morrisons own brand primary plastic placed on the market
 35,411.01t  
(64.0%)
75% of local authorities  
collect this packaging  
type for recycling.
Examples include:
Drinks bottles (PET)
Milk bottles (HDPE)
Yoghurt pots (PS)
Plastic:  
55,356.2  
tonnes (50%) 
Paper:  
23,682.9  
tonnes (21%) 
Aluminium:  
1,115.3  
tonnes (1%) Glass:  
23,705.8  
tonnes (21%) 
Steel:  
8,305.5  
tonnes (7%) 
Wood:  
0.01  
tonnes (0%) 
*The figures above and in the table opposite have been 
calculated working with third party data analysts, Valpak Limited using standard industry methodology.
% of own brand primary packaging ‘widely recycled’ and 
‘recycle with bags at larger stores’ by weight has also been independently assured by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Primary packaging is defined as the layer of packaging in immediate contact with a product.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC10
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Plastics Customer insight surveyCHANGING OUR USE OF PLASTIC continued
The balance of food waste and packaging 
A selection of stakeholders believe in order to 
effectively tackle the plastics issue, retailers should 
remove plastics altogether from sale. However, plastic 
packaging has many benefits, it plays a fundamental role in preserving the freshness, quality and safety of   
a product, helping to significantly reduce food waste.
The resources needed to grow, manufacture and 
transport food are more impactful than packaging 
alone so food preservation is critical. The key is smart 
packaging which is handled correctly, is fit for purpose and can be recycled, reused or composted. 
Tackling ocean pollution caused by fishing gear
Abandoned lost and discarded fishing gear is thought 
to make up 10% of all marine litter, posing a threat 
to marine life long after it has served its value to commercial fisherman. In early 2018, we became 
supporting members of the Global Ghost Gear 
Initiative (GGGI) to help tackle this issue and will be working to introduce best practice in our supply 
chains through improvements in reporting of lost 
fishing gear, traceability and recovery or the uptake of gear with in-built escape mechanisms to prevent 
animal entanglement if lost.Examples of what we’ve done so far: 
Prohibited the use 
of microbeads in our products ahead of legislation.‘Don’t flush it’ logo placed on disposable wet wipes packaging.Introduced a number of water taps in cafés and water fountains in new store cafés for customers. Moved to paper stem cotton buds in our health and beauty ranges.Removed boxed single use straws from sale and in our cafés.
Removed single use plastic carrier bags from our stores.
Customers can bring 
own containers  
to fish and butchery  counters.  Launched enhanced packaging policy.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC11
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Duncan Simpson, Director of Sales and Marketing of Valpak Ingrid Giskes, Chair of the GGGIValpak is regarded as the industry expert for packaging data. We assist 
retailers with the assessments of recyclability factors associated with 
OPRL and have worked with WRAP and Government departments 
researching flows of packaging onto and off the market. We have been 
working with Morrisons over the past 12 months to develop a methodology 
for accurately calculating operational food waste at the back of their 
stores as well as recyclability of their packaging. Plastics Customer insight survey
I’m delighted to welcome Morrisons to the GGGI to help in the fight 
against one of the biggest threats to our oceans, which impacts 
both fish stock levels and people’s livelihoods. Morrisons will play 
a key role alongside NGOs, governments and other stakeholders to 
improve the health of marine ecosystems, protect marine animals 
and safeguard human health and jobs.Processed through 
our manufacturing 
sites, our Wonky 
Veg range helps to reduce unnecessary food waste on farm.  
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignmentTACKLING FOOD WASTE 
Where does food waste occur in the UK?
In the UK alone, we waste over 10m tonnes of food every year, 60% of which could have been avoided.
Food waste is a major contributor to climate change, 
Global food loss and waste generates annually 
about 8% of total GHG emissions. This means that 
the contribution of food waste emissions to global warming is almost equivalent (87%) to global road 
transport emissions. 
In contrast, almost 1 billion people go undernourished 
and another 1 billion go hungry. According to the UN, 
it is predicted by 2050 that the world’s population 
will increase from 7 billion to over 9.5 billion people. As a result, food demand will continue to rise by 65% 
during this time. This will create even greater strain on 
the natural resources we depend on within our value chain in order to grow, make, transport and sell food to our customers. 
It’s important that we all work together to create 
more opportunities and markets for sustainable food systems, creating leaner and more efficient supply 
chains, improving food security and ending the 
disparity between hunger and food waste. Global context 
According to a study by the United Nations (UN) food 
agency, one-third of the world’s food production or 
1.3bn tonnes is either lost or wasted. 
Food wasted every year UK’s CO 2eq food  
and drink emissions
10m tonnes 20%HOUSEHOLD 
Typically a result of: 
• Not using food in time
• Portion control
• StorageMANUFACTURING Typically a result of: • Inefficient processes
• Errors/faults
• Outgrades/not fit  
for purposeHOSPITALITY & FOOD 
SERVICES 
Typically a result of: 
• Inefficient processes
• Customer leftoversRETAIL Typically a result of: 
• Low sales
• Inefficient processes
• Sales forecasting
7.3m tonnes 1.7m tonnes 0.9m tonnes 0.3m tonnes
Customer insight survey 2017/18 ranking
Reducing food waste
5th 
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC12
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Customer insight survey Tackling food wasteCorporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC13
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Working with our farmers
We work closely with our 
farmers and suppliers to reduce 
unnecessary waste and adjust 
our specifications when weather conditions lead to poor harvests. 
We have introduced a range of 
wonky fruit and vegetables called Wonky Veg and we can gear up 
or down depending on sales 
forecasts. We have also acted on specific requests from grower 
groups to relax some specifications 
when there have been difficulties 
with particular crops due to 
climatic pressures. We now sell 20 varieties of Wonky Veg across 
the year, typically this means 
500 tonnes per week in stores and online. 
Drew Kirk, Produce Director said: 
“Sales of our wonky vegetables 
have been encouraging, as they have been priced at a discount 
and sold next to the class one 
crop to give customers the choice. The sales tell us that customers 
really like these products.”TACKLING FOOD WASTE continued
Wonky Veg sold 
in stores
20 varietiesGood business sense 
Morrisons is different from other retailers because 
we make the majority of the fresh food we sell. 
We are not only the UK’s fourth largest supermarket, 
we are the nation’s second largest fresh food manufacturer operating our own abattoirs, 
factories and pack houses. This gives us unrivalled 
opportunities to reduce supply chain waste.
Ensuring efficiency in our supply chain and preserving 
our products is central to our success as a business. 
We have well developed systems for preventing  
food waste and increasing the distribution of any 
surplus so that we keep edible food within the  
human food chain.
We buy direct from meat and produce farmers and 
suppliers in the UK and utilise more of what we buy 
through our own abattoirs or produce pack houses. 
We buy whole animals and where practical, we have 
the capability to process whole crops. This enables us to manage and reduce associated waste and 
related costs. By having a greater degree of control 
over more of our fresh UK food chain we are able to drive efficiency through flexibility from the farm to 
our customers.Water used for cleaning 
produce is treated and 
recycled on site and then 
released back in water 
courseWashed carrots and onions not 
up to specification (due to size, 
quality etc) are processed on 
site as Wonky Veg or sent to 
other sites to become part of 
our Wonky Veg box
Sold in storesSome of these local farmers 
process their cattle through 
our Woodheads  
manufacturing site
Blood is sold to  
be processed into 
fertiliser and  
pet foodWaste for human 
consumption but not 
normally used  
is processed into  
pet foodHides processed into 
luxury car seatsWashed carrots and onions 
not used as Wonky Veg go into 
different streams such as our 
factories to be processed as 
pre-prepared food
We wash, process 
and pack the carrots and 
onions at siteWe buy
50,000
tonnes of carrots and 
onions direct from  
50
UK growers per year 
at our Flaxby site
Solid waste produced 
when washing carrots is 
processed by our effluent 
plant on site to make 
effluent cakes. These cakes 
and waste soil are used by 
local farmers for local land 
management including the 
repair and prevention of 
soil erosionSupplying local farmers  
with stock feedExample of food waste reduction in our manufacturing sitesCustomer insight survey Tackling food waste 
z
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC14
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Helping customers to reduce their food waste
Over 50% of food wasted in the UK comes from UK 
households. As a food retailer we have a responsibility 
to drive down avoidable food waste where we can, 
by providing our customers with clear and consistent information in stores, online and on pack to help them 
to effectively store and cook food with little waste. 
In 2017, we conducted a survey of 1,907 Morrisons 
customers to understand the barriers of reducing 
food waste in the home. 
We found that 41% of our customers surveyed said 
they didn’t waste any food, similarly research by WRAP suggests 60% of people in the UK say they 
waste no or very little food, despite the fact that 
on average, around 5kg is wasted per week per 
household and of this 3kg is avoidable. It is evident 
that people aren’t aware of the food that they’re wasting and there is disconnect between personal 
behaviour and habits and how this is contributing to 
the global food waste problem. 
When communicating to our customers on this 
important issue we must not dictate. It’s important 
that we incentivise customers to reduce their food waste in a way where they can see or feel the positive impact of their day-to-day actions, whether this is 
through money saving or through environmental 
benefit. We welcome the evolution of WRAP’s Love Food Hate Waste campaign, which aims to focus on 
the behaviours that can have the biggest impacts on 
household food waste by normalising food saving behaviours and targeting hard to reach audiences. 
We will continue to support this initiative through  
our online and social media channels and in store 
where possible. Supermarkets can only play a part in this behaviour change. It’s important that we work with local 
councils, Government and industry to ensure a 
consistent approach across the UK and take learnings from successful reductions in countries such as Wales 
where they achieved a 12% reduction between 2009 
and 2015. TACKLING FOOD WASTE continued
 
 
Customer concern:  
Stop customers from 
unconsciously overbuying 
What we’re doing: Removed Buy One  
Get One Free offers, supporters of 
Love Food Hate Waste, utilising best 
practice storage advice on pack following 
recommendations from WRAP. 
 
 
Customer concern:  
Wonky produce sold  
as standard
What we’re doing: Working with UK and 
international farmers selling 20 varieties 
of wonky fruit and vegetables as well as 
a dedicated Wonky Veg box online.  
 
Customer concern:   
Confusing date labels  
on pack 
What we’re doing: Removed dual date 
codes from packs, moving away  
from ‘Display Until’ to ‘Best Before’  
dates on pack. 
 
 
Customer concern:  
Increase redistribution of edible surplus
What we’re doing: Over 3.4 million products redistributed from stores since 2016,           
over 140,000 meals redistributed to FareShare through our manufacturing sites  
as well as 1,599 tonnes through Company Shop and Community Shop.  
 
Customer concern:  
Transparency of food waste in 
our operations 
What we’re doing: We have calculated  
our operational food waste by  
weight in stores for 2017/18, for further 
information see page 26. It is policy that our 
stores work with 
a local group to 
redistribute edible unsold food. 
We are making 
changes to our on-pack guidance 
to help customers 
reduce waste. See pages 25 and 26  for more on food waste.Customer insight survey Tackling food wasteWHAT WE’VE ACHIEVED IN 2017/18
Reinf orced  
commitment to
100% British
own brand fresh meat 
3.4m
unsold food products do nated 
from stores since 201 6MyJob training delivered to 
2,500 
colleagues
537
colleagues train ed on 
Modern Slave ryLGBT+
colleague n etwork 
launch ed34% 
reduction in operational 
carbon emissions         
(2005 baseline) 
87% 
FSC equivalent or recycled 
in own brand he alth and 
beauty products81% 
own brand plastic 
packaging is recyclable    
(by weight)
140,000 
meals donated to F areShare 
through surplus food in our 
manufacturing si tes£10m 
donated to charities 
through Morrisons 
Foundatio n
200  
new local s uppliers 
selling products into 
our sto res£9m 
raised for farmers 
through our For 
Farmers range20
varieties of Wonky 
Veg sold throughout 
the year 
27%
of our leader ship team              
are female
Calories removed f rom 
own brand soft drin ks
1.8bn
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC15
Overview Chief Executive introduction Plastics Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Highlights Customer insight surveyFARM TO FORK SUSTAINABILITY
Value Chain
Sell
Our skilled butchers, bakers, cheesemongers 
and fishmongers provide a unique Market Street experience for our customers, selling fresh British produce on our counters. The specialists are on hand to advise customers on how best to store, prepare and cook the food we sell and will prepare only the amount that customers need, which helps to reduce food waste in the home. Our store colleagues reflect the local community we serve, with 75% of colleagues from the local area. We support and train our colleagues to ensure they provide the best customer service. Consume
Our colleagues work hard to minimise waste every day. It makes commercial sense and we know that our customers really care about this too. At the outset of any product design, detailed consideration is given to the lifecycle of a product and its packaging so that it is fit for purpose but also minimises materials, uses recycled content where possible and can be easily recycled. We provide recycling facilities for our customers at the front of our stores and car parks and provide information on packaging to customers on how to reduce food waste in the home. Any edible unsold food within our stores and sites are effectively redistributed to our partner organisations.Move
Products are moved through our national distribution network of 1,450 trailers from manufacturing sites to our stores. Our stores are serviced by seven regional and one national distribution centres. Through the use of state-of-the-art technology in our lorries, route optimisation, increasing trailer size and planning we are able to reduce miles and the environmental impact of our products and services, as well as getting fresh products into our stores faster. Make
We own 18 fresh food manufacturing sites across the UK, including our own abattoirs, where 8,000 skilled colleagues process and create the fresh products our customers see on our shelves. Owning our own manufacturing sites gives us greater control of waste, makes the supply chain shorter and creates efficiencies, minimising our environmental impact and ensuring authenticity, provenance and safety of     our products.Buy
We work with thousands of suppliers both in the UK and internationally to source food commodities, ingredients as well as finished products. We set high standards for the products we buy to ensure they are sourced and produced responsibly, to a high quality with safety always in mind. We’re committed to buying fresh British produce where possible and directly from UK farmers and suppliers, contributing to the UK economy. We work with our suppliers to keep them profitable and sustainable. Through our Wonky Veg range, we’ve relaxed cosmetic specifications on fresh fruit and vegetables helping suppliers to reduce on-farm waste. 
Alignment with our focus areas Alignment with our focus areas Alignment with our focus areas Alignment with our focus areas
Helping British suppliers Authenticity, provenance and safety Reduce waste and emissions Reduce food waste Our colleagues
Sourcing responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthy customers conditions CommunitiesWhat we rely on 
 1Natural resources 2Financial resources 3Physical resources  4Our experts 5Our people 6Our suppliers 7Our communities
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC16
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Supporting British farmers Global context Tackling food waste Strategy The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Our value chain Customer insight survey
Alignment with our focus areasThis Report provides details on our progress against our nine key focus areas, the challenges, 
and opportunities and how we are aligning towards a global agenda. OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY
Reduce food  
waste
Following the food waste hierarchy to 
reduce, reuse and recycle
Communities
Supporting causes that matter to our customers and colleaguesOur colleagues
Train, engage and retain our people to provide great customer serviceReduce waste and 
emissions
Reducing operational impact and creating 
efficiencies
Healthy customers
Helping our customers to make healthier choicesAuthenticity, provenance 
and safety
Traceability and integrity of the products 
we buy
Supplier working 
conditions
Protection of workers’ rights and good 
relationships with suppliersHelping British farmers
Working with our suppliers to keep them competitive, profitable and sustainable
Sourcing responsibly
Working with our suppliers to improve how they source their products with sustainability in mindFinancial priorities alignment
Financial priorities alignmentFinancial priorities alignment
Financial priorities alignmentFinancial priorities alignment
Financial priorities alignmentFinancial priorities alignment
Financial priorities alignmentFinancial priorities alignment
Key
To be more competitive
To develop popular and useful 
services
To serve our customers better
To find local solutions
To simplify and speed up the organisation
To make core supermarkets  
strong again
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC17
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Tackling food waste The SDGsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Strategy Customer insight surveyCollaboration is the key to ensuring sustainable change.WORKING TOWARDS A GLOBAL AGENDA
Why is it important?
The UN Sustainable Development Goals officially 
came into force in 2015. The Goals universally 
apply to all and aim to end all forms of poverty, 
fight inequalities and tackle climate change on a global scale. These Goals can’t be realised without 
participation from all sectors including business. 
We recognise the importance of these goals and the true value of collaboration in order to create change. 
At Morrisons, we want to address these global 
challenges in a meaningful way that is relevant and aligned to our business strategy. We’ve reviewed 
our focus areas and ensured we are aligned to at 
least one Goal where possible. As the use of the Goals develops we will adapt and build connections 
so that we stay connected to best practice 
where possible.
Our focus areas
Helping British 
suppliersOur colleagues
Authenticity, provenance and safety Sourcing responsibly
Reduce carbon  and waste Supplier working conditions
 
Reduce food  wasteHealthy customers
Communities
 
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC18
Overview Chief Executive introduction Highlights Plastics Supporting British farmers Our value chain Global context Tackling food waste StrategyAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
The SDGs Customer insight surveyTo develop popular  
and useful servicesTo be more  
competitive
To find local 
solutionsFinancial priorities alignment
To serve our  
customers betterCustomer insight survey 2017/18 ranking
Supporting British farmers
2nd
Buying British products
7th
Selling local products
9th
Raised for farmers through  
For Farmers rangeFirst major 
supermarket to commit to selling British only fresh own brand meat throughout  
the yearNEW:  
Chippindale  
Foods egg manufacturing  
site
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment£9m100%1. HELP BRITISH FARMERS 
TO BE COMPETITIVE, 
PROFITABLE AND 
SUSTAINABLE
We know our customers care about buying 
affordable British products. British farming is also 
essential to our business as it keeps supply chains 
short and efficient. It’s important that we support suppliers to create profitable, affordable, high quality products for our customers
Our commitments and performance summary  A full list of our commitments and performance figures can be found on page 40
Launch of 
Morrisons Milk for Farmers higher welfare standards19
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Supporting British Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents  Visit Morrisons farming website:                                                   
www.morrisons-farming.com  
HELP BRITISH FARMERS TO BE COMPETITIVE, PROFITABLE AND SUSTAINABLE 
continued
  Supporting Red Tractor...
“Morrisons commitment to British agriculture 
is undeniable and evident in every sector and at every stage of production. Consumers look for 
safe, traceable, responsibly produced food they 
can trust and the combination of the Morrisons label and the Red Tractor logo provides just that.”
Jim Moseley
CEO, Red Tractor2017/18 focus
Reinforcing our commitment to British 
We are committed to selling 100% British fresh meat in 
our stores throughout the year. In doing so, we agreed 
to stop selling New Zealand and Australian fresh lamb 
which we had previously stocked during the winter and early spring months. This announcement is part 
of Morrisons wider programme to sell more food that 
is both British and local. Over two-thirds of Morrisons food is British. 
For Farmers range
Our Milk for Farmers range comes from a dedicated 
pool of British farmers, who produce to a higher 
welfare standard allowing cows to graze for 120 
days of the year. The extra 10p per litre paid by customers is shared among all the British farmers 
in the dedicated Morrisons dairy group. Since the 
For Farmers range launched we have contributed              an additional £9m to farmers.
Chippindale Foods
In early 2018, we announced our acquisition of 
Chippindale Foods, a leading supplier of free range eggs. This acquisition will ensure we make even more 
of our own fresh food and become more competitive 
for customers on these important everyday products. It will also bring forward the date at which Morrisons 
will achieve its 2025 commitment to source all 
branded eggs from non-caged hens. 
Antibiotics in farming
A key focus area since emerging Brexit has been the 
need for farmers to focus on sustainability through effective production while maintaining high standards 
of health and welfare. This focus on preventative herd and flock health 
is also part of the antibiotic usage on farm toolkit, 
to which the publication of species targets by the 
Responsible Use of Medicines in Agriculture Task Force in response to the 2016 O’Neill report supports. 
Measuring, monitoring and managing the use of 
antibiotics on farm, particularly those of ‘Critically Important Antibiotics’ status for human health, has 
also been a major focus this year.
We have therefore been focusing our farmers’ efforts 
on the monitoring and measurement of antibiotics 
on farm, as well as thinking carefully about the animal 
health and welfare performance indicators, including infectious and endemic disease monitoring. 
Thinking about how our animals are housed and cared 
for, we have also published advice on environmental 
enrichment materials to use in pig housing, started a new project on free farrowing crates and launched a 
programme of additional standards from health and 
safety to house lighting and nutritional support in the pig sector.
Shorthorn beef 
The British Shorthorn was once a protected rare 
breed. We found from our research that the meat eating quality of this breed was high. By offering 
to pay a premium for the British Shorthorn, this 
encouraged farmers to invest in it. We have now secured Shorthorn beef into 380 stores under  
The Best range. Hampshire pork 
We introduced genetics from the Hampshire 
pork breed into The Best pork range, giving extra 
tenderness and taste to the pork our customers 
buy. The farmers growing Hampshire Pork pigs meet regularly as a group to discuss improvements to the 
breed, production systems and the eating quality 
of the meat. Since launching The Best Hampshire pork range in 2016 we have seen further expansion 
to include cured smoked medallions, smoked and 
unsmoked maple cured back bacon.
Dairy beef 
Working with farmers, we process reared dairy bulls 
through our abattoirs, preventing calves being killed at birth or exported live for continental veal markets.
Morrisons Dairy Beef programme continues to grow 
with an average of 500 calves placed each month. 
Further information on our commitment to 
supporting British farming can be found on page  7. Our approach
We buy animals and whole crops direct from 
British farmers. Owning our own abattoirs, 
manufacturing and packing facilities enables us 
to utilise the whole animal and all of the crop, meaning farmers get a fair price and we’re reducing 
waste. Our Farming Programme also works with 
producers to promote profitable, responsible farming through collaboration and supply 
chain initiatives.20
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Supporting British Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
What’s next
Harnessing 
opportunities for 
farming through 
innovative 
technologies.Addressing 
labour shortage, 
succession on 
farms, effective 
knowledge 
exchange, EU 
labour pressure.Preparing for Brexit 
including tariffs 
and commodity 
price volatility.
Effective industry 
measurement and collation  
of antibiotic use  
on farms.Continual supply chain 
engagement to ensure 
farming and customer 
communication  
is effective.2nd in Food 
Standards Agency’s campylobacter retailer league table New in-store food safety fish guides
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignmentFinancial priorities alignment
To develop popular  
and useful servicesTo serve our  
customers betterCustomer insight survey 2017/18 ranking
Food safety 
1st
Antibiotics in farming
12thFood Hygiene Rating 5 or Pass achieved
88% stores Our commitments and performance summary  A full list of our commitments and performance figures can be found on page 402. ENSURE 
AUTHENTICITY, 
PROVENANCE AND 
SAFETY OF OUR PRODUCTS
It is a priority that our products and 
services meet all food safety and legal 
standards. This significantly reduces 
risk and meets customer expectation for quality and value.
‘At source’ international 
teams operating in five countries
21
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Supporting British Food safety  Read more about our campylobacter work at: https://  
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr/campylobacter-update/ENSURE AUTHENTICITY, PROVENANCE AND SAFETY OF OUR PRODUCTS 
continued
  Listening to our communities...
“Morrisons should continue working vertically  
in food chain to promote safety, quality 
and value.”
Morrisons customerOur approach
We set high standards for our own brand 
suppliers, manufacturing sites and stores to ensure the delivery of safe and legal products that meet the demands of our customers.22
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
What’s next
New Recipe 
Management 
System will be 
completed in 2018.Continue to reduce 
campylobacter 
levels in own brand 
chicken.Continue to 
conduct supplier 
visits through 
our ‘at source’ 
technical teams.2017/18 focus
Working with Government 
We are working with the Food Standards Agency 
(FSA) on Regulating our Future, which is a strategy 
to improve the way food businesses are regulated. 
The current model of food inspections is one size fits all. The FSA want a flexible, risk-based approach 
that is fit for the future and takes into account the 
changes in the food industry, such as online retailers, food delivery services and independent food safety 
certification schemes. 
Culture of Excellence programme 
Our Culture of Excellence programme has run 
for a second year in our manufacturing sites. 
This programme continues to play a key role in improving our food safety and quality ways of 
working. All sites have been audited and each has 
robust plans in place to further improve our Culture of Excellence targets for 2018. 
Food Industry Intelligence Network (FIIN) 
We continue to actively participate in FIIN, which 
represents a ‘safe haven’ for retail, manufacturing and food service members to share intelligence on 
food fraud. We are now members of the expert 
Technical Steering Group which has been established to address the vulnerability of specific categories and 
recommend additional control measures.
Campylobacter
Since 2013, we have been working hard to reduce 
campylobacter levels in fresh own brand chicken. 
We have worked with our suppliers to implement a detailed Campylobacter Action Plan which has 
successfully reduced campylobacter levels in 
our chickens.                                                                       Overall for 2017 only 0.8% of our chickens had the higher levels of contamination from a total of 477 
chickens tested.
The FSA’s 2017 report placed Morrisons second 
in a retailer league table with significantly lower 
prevalence of campylobacter levels. 
Agents and Brokers Standard
We implemented our Agents and Brokers Standard in 
2017. This encompasses both British Retail Consortium 
(BRC) and Morrisons specific technical requirements. The supporting audit programme commenced in September 2017. Agents and brokers play an important 
role in ensuring the safety of the Morrisons own 
brand products they source. Our Standard defines 
specific technical and operational requirements 
that will deliver safe and legally compliant products. Agents and Brokers audits are conducted at a           
risk-based frequency with encouragement for agents 
and brokers to gain certification to the BRC Agents and Brokers Standard.
Morrisons Supplier Microbiology Forum
We have brought together a group of food safety 
experts from across diverse parts of our supply 
base to share knowledge and collaborate with us 
on ensuring the safety and quality of our food products, which we believe is an industry first. 
The forum has attracted a high calibre of participant. 
In addition to our own in-house Morrisons experts we have expertise from notable food manufacturers 
across our supply base. The aims of the forum 
include sharing of information and best practices for managing food safety and quality; identifying 
industry issues and emerging microbiological risks; 
developing relationships within the supplier base and understanding of the relevant Morrisons policies and priorities. 
Spice authenticity
We are commencing a programme of testing samples 
of high risk authenticity ingredients such as spices, oils and cheeses procured during audits. We are active 
participants in the herbs and spices research project 
run by Professor Chris Elliot at Queens University, Belfast. Good progress has been made in developing 
new testing methods to identify adulteration in sage 
and oregano. Through horizon scanning, we have determined the product areas most vulnerable to 
food fraud and test them on a risk-based frequency 
to detect potential adulterations. High risk products include comminuted meats, fish products, oils, fruit 
juices, honey, herbs, spices and wine.
International ‘at source’ team 
Over the past year, we have employed a team of        
‘at source’ produce experts helping us to work more 
effectively with farmers in Spain, Chile, Holland, South Africa and Peru. In 2017, we conducted over 1,000 
supplier visits across those countries.Supporting British Food safetyBy 2025, all 
own brand plastic packaging will be recyclable, reusable or compostable34%
81%Own brand plastic  
packaging  
is recyclable  
by weightReduction  
in operational carbon  
emissions achieving  
our 2020  
target early 
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
 To develop popular  
and useful servicesTo be more  
competitive
To find local solutionsFinancial priorities alignment
To serve our  
customers betterCustomer insight survey 2017/18 ranking
Reducing plastic packaging
3rd
Reducing packaging waste
4th 
Reducing our carbon footprint
18th Our commitments and performance summary  A full list of our commitments and performance figures can be found on page 413. REDUCE GENERAL 
OPERATIONAL 
WASTE AND CARBON 
EMISSIONS
Climate change significantly affects our 
business through its impacts on agricultural 
yields, food prices and supply. It’s important 
that we minimise environmental risks to our business, protect natural capital and create efficiencies. As a food maker it is also 
important that we show respect and value for 
the food we serve to our customers, whilst operating efficient supply chains.Removed 
single use carrier bags from stores23
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Carbon and waste Supporting British
  Read more about the UK Plastics PACT here:  
http://www.wrap.org.uk/content/the-uk-plastics-pactREDUCE GENERAL OPERATIONAL WASTE AND CARBON EMISSIONS 
continued
Our approach
We were the first major supermarket to be 
awarded the Carbon Trust standard in 2008 
based on a range of activity at the time which we 
continue to this day.  We have a range of products to deliver carbon savings throughout our supply 
chain.  Reducing our impact is part of what we do; 
this makes sense not only from an environmental perspective, it also ensures efficiency throughout 
our operations. 
  Listening to our customers..
“I think it’s crucial that all supermarkets look at 
reducing their carbon footprint and protecting our planet.  We can start by reducing packaging 
and plastic in particular. I’ve seen a tremendous 
shift in the acceptance of plastic carrier bags no longer being available.”24
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Carbon and waste
What’s next
Development of 
a science-based 
carbon reduction 
target.Further removal of 
problematic plastic 
packaging within 
our operations.Increasing the 
visibility of OPRL 
on our products.2017/18 focus
Operational carbon target
As a result of our efforts to reduce energy use across 
the estate, our operational carbon emissions were 
1,071,249 tCO 2e, which represents an overall absolute 
reduction of 34% in operational carbon emissions. This means we’ve achieved our 30% reduction target 
two years earlier than expected. In 2018, we will set a new stretching operational carbon target, considering 
the inclusion of a science-based metric. 
Improving efficiency within logistics 
We’re undertaking a number of activities designed to 
reduce the number of miles we travel while delivering 
food to our stores.  
During 2017, we reduced the Morrisons fleet by 46 
vehicles, we were able to make this reduction by 
improving utilisation and overall efficiency.
We have increased the use of double deck trailers 
and maximised the vehicle fill on our extended length 
trailers reducing the number of trips we make to 
stores to deliver the same volume.
Our vehicle telematics system has improved the 
average miles to the gallon of our drivers by reducing 
harsh braking, acceleration and engine idling time.
Through national inter-depot movements, we have 
increased our use of one way sub-contraction to 
move products between our distribution centres, 
this means we are reducing kilometres travelled and empty running on return journeys.
Waste in stores
We aim for zero waste direct to landfill in our 
stores. We operate a strong reduction and recycling programme treating waste as a resource and work 
with our waste contractors to maximise reprocessing. 
2017/18 store waste and recycling breakdown
Material Tonnes
Card 107,647.25
Confidential paper 72.64
Mixed plastics 6,412.78
Animal by-product (ABP) 4,029.55
Light tubes 4.29
Oil 4,508.62
Other recyclables 6.22
Diverted trade waste 56,011.75
Total recycled/reprocessed waste 178,692.99 (97.3%)
Landfill 5,020.72 (2.7%)
Total waste produced 183,713.71
Plastic packaging policy 
At the outset of any product design, detailed 
consideration must be given to the lifecycle of the 
product and product packaging so that it is fit for purpose, which is to protect the product, and reduce 
waste but also minimises packaging, uses recycled 
material wherever possible, and can be recycled wherever possible. 
In 2018, we launched our packaging policy to ensure 
that by 2025 all plastic packaging used on own brand products will be either recyclable, reusable 
or compostable. 
UK Plastics PACT signatory 
As signatories to WRAP’s UK Plastics PACT, we will 
work in collaboration with WRAP, other signatories 
and the industry so that together, by 2025, we aim 
to eliminate problematic or unnecessary single-use packaging through redesign, innovation or alternative 
(re-use) delivery models and ensure that in our 
packaging we have 30% average recycled content across all plastic packaging.
Removing problematic plastics
We prohibited the use of plastic microbeads ahead of 
legislation, as well as plastic stem cotton buds in our 
own brand cosmetic and personal care products. 
In 2018, we are phasing out plastic drinking straws and 
single use carrier bags. We will also move away from black plastic and PVC packaging on our products. 
More information on our plastics activity can be 
found on page 9. 
Recyclability of our products 
In 2017, 90% of own brand primary packaging was 
recyclable by weight, this includes plastic, paper, wood, aluminium, glass and steel. 81% of own brand 
primary plastic packaging was recyclable by weight. 
The figures have been calculated working with third party data analysts, Valpak Limited using standard 
industry methodology.
We adopt OPRL on our own brand packaging, which 
helps customers to easily identify products that can be recycled. In 2018, we are communicating to 
suppliers that OPRL information is essential and needs 
to be placed on all own brand products to ensure consistency of information for our customers. Supporting BritishMeals redistributed from 
our manufacturing sites to FareShare
140,000 
Wonky Veg sold in our stores
20 varieties Morrisons Foundation donated more than £250,000 to food redistribution charities
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
Wonky Veg box launched
To develop popular  
and useful servicesTo be more  
competitive
To find local solutionsFinancial priorities alignment
To serve our  
customers betterCustomer insight survey 2017/18 ranking
Reducing food waste
5thOver 3.4 million unsold food products donated to local community groupsOur commitments and performance summary  A full list of our commitments and performance figures can be found on page 414. REDUCE  
FOOD WASTE
By building smarter supply chains we reduce 
avoidable food waste. We follow the food waste 
hierarchy of prevention, optimisation, recycling, 
recovery and, as a last resort, responsible      disposal. This reduces environmental risk,       creates efficiencies and is important for a range     
of our stakeholders.25
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Food waste Supporting British  Further information on our food waste activity can be 
found on page 12 .REDUCE FOOD WASTE 
continued
Our approach
We are committed to providing food we are proud 
of with the minimum wasted so that our customers 
enjoy eating quality fresh food at great value. 
We have to take an active approach to use more of what we buy and consequently the management 
and reduction of associated waste is our 
responsibility. By having a greater degree of control over more of our fresh UK food chain through our 
vertical integration model we believe we are also 
able to drive efficiency from farm gate through our more direct supply chain to our customers.
  Working with our redistribution partners..
“We are incredibly proud of our partnership 
with Morrisons. Thanks to collaboration across multiple production sites, FareShare is able to 
access a range of fresh, nutritious food that is in 
such high demand by the thousands of frontline charities we support – items like fresh fish, potatoes and fruit. ”
Lindsay Boswell
CEO, FareShare26
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Food waste
Increasing our 
food redistribution 
programme 
throughout stores 
and manufacturing 
sites.Improving 
customer 
communications 
around household 
food waste.Continue to make 
product changes 
to make it easier 
for customers to 
reduce their food 
waste.What’s next2017/18 focus
Reducing on-farm food waste
In addition to our Wonky Veg range which sells on 
average 500 tonnes per week, we’ve introduced 
Wonky Veg boxes, which includes carrots, onions, 
potatoes, parsnips as well as a minimum of three additional seasonal produce items. We anticipate in 
2018/19 sales of Wonky Veg will reach around 1,000 
tonnes per week. 
Manufacturing food waste reduction
We invested £30m in washing and packing technology, 
including state of the art optical grading systems, increasing yield and reducing downgrade and waste 
at our potato packing sites in Gadbrook and Rushden 
by over 4% and introduced water recycling systems to significantly reduce water usage. 
Manufacturing and distribution centre surplus 
redistribution
In nine of our manufacturing sites and distribution 
centres, we work with Company Shop and FareShare 
to redistribute edible surplus food that can’t be used through our own operations. Working with these organisations, we’ve managed to redistribute 1,599 
tonnes of surplus food that would have otherwise 
been wasted. 
Grimsby seafood site : FareShare works with our 
Grimsby manufacturing site to redistribute ad-hoc 
surplus fresh fish and seafood from our operations. Typically this occurs when we can’t sell the product 
within our stores or sell on to other markets due to 
issues with allergens. 
Cutler heights : In 2017, our fresh produce 
manufacturing site, Cutler Heights, began a project 
with FareShare to redistribute surplus green grapes from their operations. Due to weight requirements 
for grapes punnetted at the site, surplus grapes which 
currently don’t have a commercial outlet are collected by FareShare on a regular basis. 
Carnoustie : FareShare in Scotland now receives 
a regular supply of surplus potatoes from our 
manufacturing site in Carnoustie. Potatoes typically 
used as quality samples are collected by FareShare 
Glasgow every fortnight, where they are redistributed to their local frontline charities.
Through our partnership with FareShare in our 
manufacturing sites we redistributed 140,000 meals in 
2017/18, the equivalent of 59.5 tonnes. 
McColls partnership 
In early 2018, we began a new supply deal with 
convenience retailer, McColls, to exclusively supply Safeway branded products to its convenience shops 
and newsagents. This is a phased rollout starting in 
the Greater Manchester area. Any surplus food from our Bury distribution centre through the McColls 
partnership is now redistributed to local charity, The 
Bread and Butter Thing. As we rollout our partnership with McColls we will partner with FareShare to redistribute any surplus stock. 
Retail food waste measurement 
Working with third party data analysts, Valpak Limited, 
we have developed a methodology to accurately record food wasted in our stores by weight. 
11,028.8 tonnes of food was recorded as damaged 
or out of date stock, which was collected by waste contractors at the back of stores for recycling and 
reprocessing where possible. At present, a proportion 
of edible food recorded as waste is used in colleague canteens and in colleague sales however this is not currently accurately captured at store level. 
Unsold food programme
Through our unsold food programme, in 2017/18 we 
donated 796.89 tonnes to local community groups. 3.4 million edible unsold food items have been 
donated to local community groups since 2016.
Further information on the scope of our operational 
food waste reporting and number of unsold food donations can be found on page 48 of this report. 
Supporting food redistribution organisations
Morrisons Foundation donated over £250,000 to food 
redistribution organisations, helping them to purchase 
community fridges, vans and equipment. 
Customer food waste
Following recommendations from WRAP, we’re 
reviewing on-pack guidance on Morrisons products 
and we will: move from ‘Display Until’ to ‘Best Before’ dates; increase visibility of our “Enjoy for longer when 
kept in the fridge” message; consider the WRAP 
recommendation of using a fridge logo and other additional messages to encourage less waste; and 
review ‘open’ and ‘closed’ shelf life guidance. Supporting British668Colleagues completed  
MyJob trainingColleagues on Retail 
Pathway programmes 
Top 10 UK employer  
for social mobility (Social Mobility Employer Index)
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignmentTo make core supermarkets  
strong againTo develop popular  
and useful services
To serve our  
customers better
To simplify and
speed up theorganisationFinancial priorities alignment
To find local  
solutionsCustomer insight survey 2017/18 ranking
Looking after employees
8th 
Equality in the workplace
17th
Employee volunteering
28thOur commitments and performance summary  A full list of our commitments and performance figures can be found on page 425. LOOK AFTER OUR 
COLLEAGUES 
The success of Morrisons is dependent on 
recruiting, developing and retaining the right 
people. It’s important that our colleagues 
reflect the communities in which we operate, and feel supported and engaged to enable us to deliver great customer service and meet our 
strategic objectives
Leadership team  
is female 
27%
2,500
LGBT+  
network 
launched 27
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Our colleagues Supporting British
  Read more about Morrisons careers here:            
www.morrisons.jobsLOOK AFTER OUR COLLEAGUES 
continued
  Diversity within the workplace...
“We are proud of the progress we are making 
as a diverse and inclusive employer, to provide more opportunities for women to progress, 
and to share more of our profits with all our 
colleagues through improved pay, bonuses, and benefits.”
Clare Grainger
Group People Director, Morrisons
Our approach
Our people are at the forefront of everything we 
do. Recruiting and retaining the right people means 
we deliver our strategic objectives and provide 
excellent customer service. At Morrisons, we aim to create long term partnerships by giving colleagues 
the time, qualifications and support needed           
to grow and develop their skills.28
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Our colleagues
2017/18 focus
Retail management structure change 
Since the 2014/15 management restructure took 
place in our stores, we’ve continued to listen to our 
colleagues and customers to review our structures 
to make sure we’re in a strong position to serve our customers better. 
Following a full review of our management 
structure in stores, we have reduced the number of management roles by 1,500, whilst simultaneously 
creating 1,700 additional colleague roles. We believe 
this re-establishes the right balance of colleague and management roles, introducing a structure which is 
simpler with clearer management accountabilities. 
Fair day’s pay and colleague benefits
It is important that colleagues feel valued and that 
they share in the success of the business. We closely 
listen to the feedback in this area in our ‘Your Say’ survey. Positive responses to the question of ‘I receive 
a fair day’s pay for the work I do’ has increased again 
reflecting our continued investment in colleagues. 
We have increased pay from £8.20 per hour to £8.70 
for all our store colleagues. In manufacturing, there 
has been a 2% increase across all hourly roles with the new minimum established rate of £8.16, which equates 
to the same as retail when considering paid breaks, 
and the minimum new starter rate moved to £7.83.In addition to our company wide bonus scheme, we have introduced a new improved bonus scheme 
for colleagues at junior manager level. The average 
colleague bonus payout in 2017 was over 25% higher this year than the previous year. 
During the year, we also introduced a new pension 
scheme which provides colleagues with a more affordable way to save, enabling them to make 
contributions starting at 1% of salary, which are 
matched by the Group.
We have introduced ‘My Perks’ on this platform giving 
colleagues access to discounts across many high 
street retailers. 
Apprenticeships 
With the introduction of the Apprenticeship Levy in 
2017, we are now one of the UK’s biggest employers 
of apprenticeships. Providing a point of differentiation for Morrisons in the industry we offer Market Street 
craft apprenticeships including butchers, bakers and 
fishmongers placements. 
Tools and training to do the job 
During the year, we introduced our MyMorri app 
giving all colleagues online access to their payslips, 
training, colleague handbook and a dedicated news channel to keep up-to-date with all relevant 
company information. 
A new online learning management system, My 
Learning, has also been introduced. This provides a 
single platform to access relevant training materials 
and an electronic employee record regarding legal training. MyJob programmes continue to be delivered across the business to develop technical and leadership skills. 
This year we have also delivered a similar programme 
to 2,500 colleagues across our management groups.
An opportunity to develop, progress and grow 
To give our colleagues the opportunity to develop 
and grow, we have introduced our internal 
Pathway programme to give a clear visible route for progression within their chosen career through a 
series of development courses. In 2017, we had over 
1,000 applications for the programme with over 500 successful applicants. 
Over 850 colleagues from across the business 
completed our Leading with Purpose programme in 
2017. This programme, which is delivered by leadership 
team members, enables colleagues to understand 
their role in the turnaround of Morrisons and in delivering our core purpose. 
Our graduate programmes continue to increase in size 
with 76 graduates starting their careers on one of our eight schemes. 
Our apprenticeship programmes continue to grow 
with over 300 colleagues starting an apprenticeship 
in areas including butchery, bakery, fishmongers, engineering and floristry. Supporting BritishLOOK AFTER OUR COLLEAGUES 
continued
For the eighth year running, we hosted our annual 
in-house Mastercraft competition to celebrate the 
talent of our very best food makers and shopkeepers. 
Colleagues from across all our stores and sites were invited to showcase their skills in butchery, 
bakery, fishmongery, cake shop, wine, deli, floristry, 
and produce. 
Social inclusion
We are working with Mosaic, a UK mentoring 
programme creating opportunities for young people 
growing up in the most deprived communities, to support underperforming schools in West Yorkshire. 
We are also working with IGD on a similar initiative 
to support schools on a national scale, utilising our the knowledge and skills of our graduates and degree 
apprentices to act as mentors. 
Through the Our Club programme, we work with 
Department of Work and Pensions and local Job 
centres to help unemployed people get back into 
work. In 2018, we will also be exploring opportunities to work with Barnardo’s, the national children’s charity  
on social inclusion programmes.
Diversity of our colleagues
We pride ourselves on being a diverse and 
inclusive business. All colleagues and people in the 
communities in which we work are welcomed and treated with respect, regardless of their background. 
We remain committed to maintaining an environment 
that enables colleagues to be at their best more of the time, offering equal opportunities for colleagues 
to develop, progress and grow. Diversity working groups have been established, 
identifying five priorities including gender, culture, 
disability, LGBT+ and parents and carers. Plans are 
currently in development for 2018 but there remains an ongoing focus to increase female representation    
at a senior leadership level.
Supporting women to progress within our business
During the year, Morrisons employed over 58,000 
female colleagues and over 47,000 male colleagues. 
We remain committed to improving representation 
of females in senior leadership roles. The Board comprises seven men and two women, whilst 73% of 
the leadership team are male and 27% female. 
We continue to make progress with our ambition of 
increasing the number of female store managers and 
have moved from 34 (7%) in 2016 to 86 (18%) as of 
November 2017. 
We introduced Women in Leadership workshops 
across the business to give colleagues the opportunity 
to discuss the barriers and concerns that our female colleagues face and to share details on personal 
development and opportunities in Morrisons.
Gender pay gap
We welcome the Government’s introduction of 
gender pay reporting, which will improve transparency 
in this important area. We are proud of our progress 
as a diverse and inclusive employer to provide more opportunities for women to progress, and to share 
more of our profits with all our colleagues through 
improved pay, bonuses and benefits.We reported a 12.1% median and a 14.9% mean gender pay gap, which is below the national average of 17.4% (mean), and the retail industry average of 16.4% (mean), 
but we recognise there remains work to do.
We typically receive many more applications for our 
front-line roles from women, and these roles are 
predominantly held by females. For example around 
70% of all Customer Assistants in store are female. 
Our craft food roles including butchers, bakers and 
fishmongers, as well as night roles typically receive 
more applications from men. These are also the roles which attract higher rates of pay through additional 
payment above our £8.70 hourly rate. 
We also recognise that at middle and senior 
management levels we have less female representation than we would like and this is 
something we’re working hard to change throughout 
2018/19 and beyond. LGBT+ colleague network  
In 2017, over 400 colleagues joined a new LGBT+ 
network. The network enables colleagues to share 
their stories, news and ideas as well as provide 
support and advice on issues that matter to them. 
Health and wellbeing 
We have focused on stabilising the Occupational 
Health referral service, educating relevant managers on attendance management, including handling 
colleague disabilities and reasonable adjustments. 
We are continuing to work with the Retail Trust on 
our employee assistance programme, making their 
services more accessible to all our colleagues by 
creating an app for colleagues to download to access help and information. 
Your Say forum 
Listening and responding remains a priority and we’ll 
be focusing on further developing the strength of the Your Say forums.
Our 2017 Your Say Survey was completed by 76% 
of employees across the business. Our measure               of overall engagement improved from 75.6% in 2016   
to 78.2% in 2017.2017/18 focus
29
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Our colleagues
Craft 
apprenticeships 
in Scotland and 
Wales. Continue to invest 
in MyJob training 
throughout the 
business. Development 
of a health and 
wellbeing website 
on MyMorri.What’s nextSupporting BritishOur commitments and performance summary  A full list of our commitments and performance figures can be found on page 436. SOURCE  
RESPONSIBLY 
Increasing global demand and pressure for 
key commodities can lead to ill-managed 
supply chains, erosion of land, illegal 
logging and the destruction of natural habitats and ecosystems. We must ensure that our supply chains remain sustainable 
and that we conserve the natural capital 
we’re dependent on.
Our farmed fish and 
seafood is certified to third party standards including Global GAP, Aquaculture Stewardship Council and Global Aquaculture Alliance Best Aquaculture PracticeContinued participation in Sustainable Fisheries Partnership’s Ocean Disclosure Project
over 99% 87%Supporting members of the Ghost Gear fishing initiative
Forest Stewardship 
Council (FSC) certified approved alternatives or recycled in own brand household and beauty products
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignmentTo develop popular  
and useful servicesTo be more  
competitiveFinancial priorities alignment
To serve our  
customers better
  Customer insight survey 2017/18 ranking
Animal welfare
6th
Protecting natural habitats
11th
Fairtrade products
14th
Supplier working conditions
21st
Responsible fishing
23rd
30
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Source responsibly Supporting British  Working with our supply chain...
  Read more about our responsible sourcing here:  
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr
SOURCE RESPONSIBLY 
continued
“We really appreciate the support of retailers 
like Morrisons for the assessment of the 
North Sea cod fishery and it’s fantastic to see 
sustainable Scottish cod back on the menu.”
Mike Park
Chairman of the Scottish Whitefish Producers Association2017/18 focus
Seafood sourcing 
Responsible sourcing is at the heart of our approach 
to sourcing fish and seafood. From the health of fish 
stocks, to the management of the fisheries and its 
impact on the environment. 
As members of the Sustainable Seafood Coalition we 
assess all our seafood supply chains. Many of them 
pose unique challenges which drive the focus of our work. For example, while several UK fisheries are well-
managed, there are some which need improvement. 
We are working with Project UK Fisheries Improvement 
(PUKFI), a project facilitated by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), to help drive positive change, with six UK 
fisheries working towards environmental sustainability 
aiming to achieve a level where they could pass MSC 
certification in five years such as scallops, monkfish and 
crab: http://www.seafish.org/pukfi
2017 also marked a landmark moment for the 
British North Sea cod fishery which was certified as 
sustainable, following decades of effort by fisherman and a targeted improvement programme, which we were pleased to be able to support. 
Certification 
Farmed seafood continues to play an increasingly 
important role in global production and makes up 
around half the supply for all the fish and seafood 
we sell. As with many of our wild capture fisheries third party certification plays a valuable role in 
management of our supply chains and over 99% 
of our own supplies are certified to schemes like GlobalG.A.P, Aquaculture Stewardship Council or 
Global Aquaculture Alliance Best Aquaculture Practice.Ocean Disclosure Project 
To promote transparency in our supply chains 
and the work we do, we have supported 
the Ocean Disclosure Project for a third year 
running, publishing this information online. Further information on this initiative can be found 
at https://www.sustainablefish.org/Programs/
Professional-Guidance/Ocean-Disclosure-Project
Seafood Task Force 
Reform in our higher risk supply chains remains 
challenging. Through our membership of the Seafood Task Force, we have continued to support wide 
ranging industry reforms, driving improvements 
in traceability, monitoring and surveillance of fisheries and addressing systemic challenges in 
labour recruitment. 
Responsible Fishing Scheme 
We continue to promote best practice aboard fishing 
vessels through the adoption of the Responsible 
Fishing Scheme which hit a landmark in 2017 with its 100th certified British vessel following a revision of the standard in 2015.
Cerrado Manifesto Statement of Support 
We are signatories to Cerrado Manifesto Statement 
of Support (SoS), a group which aims to work with key 
stakeholders to achieve better protection of forests in 
the Cerrado. The SoS group is not a permanent group but exists whilst there is a need for urgent activity to 
reduce deforestation and conversion in the Cerrado.
It aims to promote more resilient agriculture and land planning practices in the region. SoS signatories will 
work with local and international stakeholders to help 
tackle this issue. FSC certified wood and wood-based products
During 2017/18, 87% of wood and wood derived 
products were Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
certified, approved alternatives or recycled in own 
brand household and beauty products, and 72% FSC, approved alternatives or recycled in own brand home 
and leisure products.
RSPO certified palm 
All own brand products containing palm oil and 
derivatives must be sourced through a RSPO certified 
supply chain system of either segregated or mass balance systems. Palm kernel oil and derivatives used 
in own brand products must be covered through        
a RSPO certified supply chain system with RSPO Credits as a minimum. 
In our most recent survey, 98% of the palm oil, 
derivatives and palm kernel oil used in own brand products was compliant with our policy.  
We will continue to work wth our suppliers to ensure 
compliance to our policy. Our approach
We are committed to responsible sourcing and use 
supply chain systems which minimise environmental 
impacts associated with the production of raw 
materials. We work with our suppliers to improve the social and environmental performance of our 
supply chain and ensure they are meeting our high 
sourcing standards. We encourage and promote responsible practices and a longer term view.31
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Communities Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Source responsibly
Phase two of the 
Project UK fisheries 
improvement 
project.Revision of seafood 
sourcing policy. Review of soya 
use within our 
supply chain and 
development         
of a policy. What’s nextSupporting BritishOur commitments and performance summary  A full list of our commitments and performance figures can be found on page 447. ENSURE FAIR WORKING 
CONDITIONS  
FOR OUR SUPPLIERS
Our customers expect us to take responsibility 
for fair working conditions in our supply chain, 
protecting workers’ rights and maintaining 
good relationships with our suppliers. We work collaboratively with our suppliers, competitors and external stakeholders to drive positive 
change throughout our operations.
537Bespoke ethical trading 
and modern slavery awareness workshops delivered to commercial colleagues in the UK and Hong Kong
Manufacturing site colleagues completed modern slavery awareness trainingModern slavery toolkits implemented at all manufacturing and logistics sites
Roll out of category  
level ethical performance reporting
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignmentTo be more  
competitiveFinancial priorities alignment
To develop popular  
and useful servicesTo serve our  
customers betterCustomer insight survey 2017/18 ranking
Trading fairly with suppliers
10th
Tackling modern slavery  
and human trafficking
13th
Supplier working conditions
21st
Fairtrade
23rd 
32
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Supplier working conditions Supporting British  Read our Modern Slavery Statement here:  
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr/ENSURE FAIR WORKING CONDITIONS FOR OUR SUPPLIERS 
continued
  Listening to NGOs...2017/18 focus
Modern slavery and forced labour
External stakeholder interest in tackling modern 
slavery remained high throughout 2017, with all 
indicators reporting a significant and ongoing increase 
in modern slavery cases. The number of potential victims in the UK alone has increased 600% in the 
last seven years, with calls to the UK Modern Slavery 
Hotline doubling in the past year.
We are collaborating with our people and loss 
prevention teams to establish a framework for 
modern slavery risk assessment, incident management and victim remediation. This will be supported 
by bespoke training workshops delivered by the 
Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority (GLAA), and manufacturing site outreach visits by the anti-
slavery charity Hope for Justice.
Further detail can be found in our 2017/18 Modern 
Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. 
Engagement and capacity building
We designed and delivered bespoke Ethical Trading 
and modern slavery awareness workshops for 
our commercial teams in the UK and Hong Kong 
throughout 2017. This will continue on a quarterly basis in 2018 and we aim to deliver one-to-one 
induction training for all new starters in applicable 
roles. We also delivered regular updates to our people teams, manufacturing site managers and 
produce technical managers to build awareness                                           
of our policy requirements.
We developed a bespoke e-learning modern slavery 
awareness module which is available to site colleagues 
in our logistics and manufacturing sites. In 2017/18, this training was successfully delivered to 
537 colleagues in roles that place them in an ideal 
position to spot the signs of forced labour and 
exploitation, as well as other relevant colleagues on site. 
Improvements to our reporting methods enabled us 
to publish ethical trading performance reporting at category level This resulted in increased engagement 
from buyers with our policy objectives, and a 
significant improvement in supplier compliance.
Collaborative working
We continued to work with the Ethical Trading 
Initiative (ETI) in 2017, funding research into human 
rights due diligence and actively contributing to cross 
sector working groups on Vulnerable Workers in 
Italian Agriculture and UK Temporary Accommodation 
Standards. We also contributed over £25,000 to an ETI remediation fund for farm workers in Zimbabwe who 
experienced significant underpayment of wages.
We worked with the NGO, Banana Link, to help 
shape and inform our approach to the responsible sourcing of Bananas from Africa and Latin America. 
They helped us to engage with local trade unions in 
source countries and ensure that social responsibility was a core pillar of our produce sourcing strategy. 
This supported our move to 100% Rainforest Alliance 
or Fairtrade certified Bananas, improving our range in 2017.
We continue to be a project sponsor of the anti-
slavery initiative Stronger Together and over 85% of our applicable suppliers have now attended their 
Modern Slavery In UK Business training. A recent impact survey found that 96% of attendees 
on this course agreed that it had increased their 
knowledge and awareness of modern slavery. We also 
supported the roll out of the Clearview labour provider audit standard, and the Stronger Together 
international programme in South Africa.
We are collaborating with a number of regulatory 
bodies, including the GLAA and HMRC, on a 
programme to raise standards in the UK hand car 
wash industry, which is identified as being at high risk of labour exploitation and forced labour. 
We actively contribute to a retailer ethical trading 
working group with representatives from the top 
nine UK supermarkets. This group aims to address the divergence in compliance and audit requirements to 
ensure a more consistent and transparent approach 
for our suppliers.
“From the beginning of their ETI membership, 
Morrisons has been engaged in very open and constructive dialogue with Banana Link to learn 
more about how to create more sustainable 
tropical fruit value chains. Banana Link particularly welcomed the opportunity for key Morrisons decision makers to meet with 
trade union representatives in Latin America to 
discuss their concerns and proposals for socially responsible sourcing.”
Jacqui MacKay 
National Coordinator, Banana LinkOur approach
Our Ethical Trading Code sets out key rights 
for workers, including guidance on wages, 
working hours, safe and hygienic conditions and 
discrimination. Compliance with the Code is part of our standard terms of supply and applies to all 
providers of goods and services. We hold regular 
review meetings with strategic suppliers to share learning and build capacity within our primary 
supplier base and undertake site visits to discuss 
ethical strategy and review improvement activity. We use our reach and influence to engage our 
supplier base with research and data gathering 
projects to improve working conditions globally.33
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Supplier working conditions
Review and 
relaunch of the 
Morrisons Ethical 
Trading Policy 
and Supplier 
Handbook.Increased resilience 
in Morrisons 
manufacturing 
and logistics 
operations.Increased 
transparency in our 
supply chains.
Modern Slavery 
awareness and 
capacity building 
for smaller 
producers in UK 
agriculture.Greater 
engagement with 
international 
anti-slavery 
programmes, 
initially in China 
and South Africa.Support for 
continued 
remediation 
programmes 
in Bangladesh 
through the 
Transition Accord.What’s nextSupporting BritishOur commitments and performance summary  A full list of our commitments and performance figures can be found on page 45
Free fruit for kids 
trial in stores Free From range relaunched
Continued rollout of Eat Smart endorsements Own brand products meet salt targets
93%1.8bn caloriesRemoved from own brand soft drinks 8. MAKE IT EASIER FOR 
OUR CUSTOMERS TO 
LIVE HEALTHIER LIVES
The UK consumes more sugar, saturated fat and 
salt and less fruit, vegetables, fibre and oily fish 
than is recommended. As a food retailer, we 
must provide healthier choices to our customers. We continue to be challenged by the Government, media and consumer groups to 
improve the nutritional profile of our products. 
Providing our customers with healthier options and reformulating our products reflects the 
social need of our customers.
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignment
To develop popular  
and useful servicesTo be more  
competitiveFinancial priorities alignment
To serve our  
customers betterCustomer insight survey 
2017/18 ranking
Selling healthy products
19th
Responsible alcohol promotions
25th34
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditionsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Healthy lifestyles Supporting British  See our healthier living ranges here:  
groceries.morrisons.com  Listening to our customers...
MAKE IT EASIER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS TO LIVE HEALTHIER LIVES 
continued
“We’ve listened to our customers who told us 
they want even more affordable veg. Our Wonky Veg boxes are a great way for our customers to 
buy British or eat seasonally or feed the family 
for the week.”
Andy Todd
Vegetable Buyer, Morrisons Our approach
We are taking a range of measures to help our 
customers make healthier choices, including 
product reformulation, clear nutritional 
information, healthier ranges, and strong promotions on fruit and vegetables. To help 
customers make quick and informed decisions 
about the food they buy we are rolling out colour coded nutrition labels to our own brand pre-
packed food and drink. In addition, we display 
calorie information on our customer café menus.2017/18 focus
Implementing the sugar reduction programme
Morrisons are committed to Public Health England’s 
sugar reduction programme, which requires retailers 
to reduce sugar content within own brand products 
across the top nine categories of food that contribute most to intakes of sugar in children up to the age of 
18 years, which are biscuits, breakfast cereals, cakes, 
confectionery, ice cream, morning goods, puddings, sweet spreads and yoghurts.
Examples of sugar reductions in 2017/18 include: 
• 60.6 tonnes removed from biscuits
• 149 tonnes sugar removed from breakfast cereals
• 59.3 tonnes from cakes and morning goods
• 126.8 tonnes sugar removed from ice cream
• 185.8 tonnes sugar removed from puddings
• 34 tonnes sugar removed from sweets
• 21.1 tonnes sugar removed from yoghurts.
Sugar tax exemption
As a result of our efforts to reduce the sugar content 
of own brand soft drinks, we have now removed over 
450 tonnes of sugar the equivalent of 1.8bn calories. This means our soft drinks are now exempt from the 
sugar tax levy introduced in England in 2018. 
Salt reduction targets
We continued to work towards the Government’s 
2017 salt reduction targets with 93% of our own brand 
products meeting the levels set. Examples of salt reductions in 2017/18 include:
• 3.8 tonnes removed from breaded poultry
• 6.1 tonnes removed from butter
• 1.5 tonnes removed from morning goods
• 55 tonnes removed from pastries
• 5.3 tonnes removed from crisps.
Eat Smart products and endorsements
We now have just under 100 Eat Smart products across 
‘Counted’ and ‘Balanced’ with sales growth of over 1.3%. 
We’ve continued to roll out our Eat Smart endorsement 
logos, highlighting the healthiest products in each 
category to help our customers make more informed choices. The endorsement now spans more than 400 
products across the store and we’ll continue to these 
endorsements out throughout 2018.  
Free From and plant-based diets
In 2017, we relaunched our Free From brand with more 
than 60 new products. Our Free From products are displayed in dedicated fresh and grocery areas within our stores. 
Gluten free endorsements logos have also been 
placed on relevant gluten free own brand products for easy identification. 
Dedicated dairy-free bays are now within our dairy 
fixtures and within our Free From fixtures in all stores. 
We’ve created a new vegan logo to help customers to 
easily identify vegan options whilst shopping in store, 
we will continue to roll this logo out on appropriate 
vegan products throughout 2018. We continue to run various promotions on thousands of fresh fruit and vegetables throughout the year 
through our Price Crunch campaign, reducing prices 
by an average of 18%. 
Free fruit for kids trial
In 2017, we began a trial in six of our stores offering free 
fruit for children as a healthy snack to help them meet 
their five a day recommendation of fresh fruit and vegetables, snack size bananas, small apples, small pears 
and easy peelers were displayed in Market Street areas 
for customers with children. 
This trial proved popular with our customers and we 
are now considering rolling this initiative out across all 
stores in 2018. 
Wonky Veg box 
To help our customers eat healthy foods more 
affordably, we introduced a Wonky Veg box available 
to online customers. The vegetable selection within the box changes seasonally and is designed to feed a 
family of four for three days at just over £3.35
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Communities Supplier working conditionsAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Healthy lifestyles
What’s next
Reformulation 
and nutrition 
improvement 
across own brand.Make nutrition 
information more 
widely available to 
our customers.Eat Smart logo 
review to ensure 
the logos are on 
the healthiest 
products. Supporting BritishOur commitments and performance summary  A full list of our commitments and performance figures can be found on page 459. MAKE A POSITIVE 
DIFFERENCE TO  
THE COMMUNITIES  
WE SERVE
Our stores play an active and positive role  
in their local community. Doing so helps us 
support causes close to the hearts of our 
colleagues and customers
Over  
£3mRaised for our 
national charity partner CLIC Sargent
Donated  
to charities through Morrisons Foundation
£10mRaised for the Poppy Appeal, Children in Need and other charity appeals
Over  
£2.5m
UN Sustainable Development Goals alignmentTo find local  
solutionsTo serve our  
customers betterFinancial priorities alignment
To develop popular  
and useful servicesCustomer insight survey 2017/18 ranking
Good causes in the community
22nd
Raising millions for charity
26th
36
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Communities Supporting British  Read more about Morrisons Foundation here:  
www.morrisonsfoundation.com  Supporting great causes...
MAKE A POSITIVE DIFFERENCE TO THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE 
continued
2017/18 focus
CLIC Sargent 
In February, we launched our new national charity 
partnership with CLIC Sargent – the UK’s leading 
charity for children and young people with cancer. 
We’ve raised over £3m thanks to the hard work and generosity of our colleagues, customers and 
suppliers. It’s been our most successful start to a 
charity partnership.
Colleagues have taken part in a huge range of events, 
both in and out of store including static cycles, 
marathons, sponsored walks, coffee mornings and book sales. Our biggest fundraising event for World 
Cancer Day raised over £300,000. Colleagues and 
CLIC Sargent service users ‘banded together’ to hold a nationwide collection day and we sold a specially 
designed charity band, with all profits being donated 
to CLIC Sargent. 
The money raised will transform the support CLIC 
Sargent can give to children, young people and 
families facing cancer. It will mean more grants to ease the financial burden of cancer, improved support 
services to cope with the emotional costs and better 
access to education, information and resources. So far:
• 2,579 families have received grants totalling £421,057;
• 800 families a year will benefit from two new   
nurse educators;
• 273 families and young people joined in group   
support at Homes from Home; 
• 760 parents and carers are accessing digital   
support groups;• 500 families who lose a child or young person to   cancer each year now have access to a bereavement  
support telephone line; and
•  11 children and young people diagnosed with 
cancer each day will have access to a brand new information hub,currently being developed for the 
CLIC Sargent website.
Local and national charities 
We also delivered record breaking results in 
fundraising for the Poppy Appeal (£1.7m) and BBC 
Children In Need (£222,000). 2017 was the first year we partnered with the Marie Curie Daffodil Appeal, 
which saw our stores raise over £542,000 in a single 
weekend. We showed our support for the Armed Forces too, with a charity promotion on our steak 
pies and in-store collections which raised £30,000 for 
Walking With The Wounded around Armed Forces Day on 24 June 2017.
Colleagues and customers were deeply moved 
by terrorist attacks in Manchester and London. Collections in our stores raised almost £350,000 for 
the British Red Cross fund to support the victims and 
their families. 
We also held nationwide collections for the victims 
of the Grenfell Tower Fire (£147,000), for the Bradley 
Lowery Foundation (£71,000) and for the East Africa and Myanmar Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) 
Appeals (£72,000).  
Community engagement
Our store community champions have continued 
to support local causes and organisations through 
fundraising and product donations. We’ve encouraged local groups and clubs to use our 
café spaces for community events, and introduced 
dedicated ‘Community Rooms’ to a number of stores. 
Hundreds of schoolchildren have enjoyed our ‘food maker and shopkeeper’ tours, helping them learn in a 
practical and interesting way. 
Morrisons Foundation
In 2017/18, the Morrisons Foundation donated 
over £10m to charities making a difference in local 
communities, awarding grants ranging from £500 
– £500,000 for hundreds of charity projects which help to improve people’s lives in England, Scotland 
and Wales. 
The majority of the Morrisons Foundation’s donations 
were awarded to charities close to a Morrisons store, 
supporting our aim to make a positive difference in 
the communities we serve. 
In addition to grant awards, the Morrisons Foundation 
also provided match funding of more than £550,000 
to boost the funds that Morrisons colleagues raise for their chosen charities. This is double the amount awarded the previous year. 
A copy of the Morrisons Foundation Annual 
Review – including details of how charities can apply for grant funding – can be found at 
www.morrisonsfoundation.com
“We could not be more proud of our partnership 
with Morrisons. Thanks to their colleagues and customers we’re able to transform the lives of 
young cancer patients and their families.
With the money they raise we have handed 
out hundreds of thousands of pounds in grants to ease the financial burden cancer brings 
and developed a brand new grant for those 
in extreme financial hardship. We have also recruited two brand new nurse educators – an entirely new role within the NHS – to provide 
specialist cancer care training outside of the 
primary cancer hospitals.”
Kate Lee
Chief Executive of CLIC SargentOur approach
We use our position at the heart of local 
communities to raise millions of pounds for charity 
every year. Both at a national and local level we 
support good causes that are important to our customers and colleagues.37
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Food safety Carbon and waste Food waste Our colleagues Source responsibly Supplier working conditions Healthy lifestylesAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Communities
Focus on 
community 
volunteering.Second year of 
CLIC Sargent 
partnership.Activity to support 
Armed Forces Day 
2018.What’s nextSupporting BritishSTAKEHOLDERS HOW WE LISTENED WHAT OUR STAKEHOLDERS CARE ABOUT EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT
Communities Council corre spondence, letters and surveys, local news, 
social media.Our communities want us to be an active neighbour, to support the causes 
that matter to them and make a positive difference through acting responsibly and thoughtfully.• £10m donated to local and national causes through 
Morrisons Foundation
• Over 3.4 million unsold food products donated to local community groups since 2016
• Supporting local and British food makers.
Customers Customer listening groups, sal es of products, customer 
insight survey, social media, corres pondence.We k now that customers recognise sustainability issues are important. They want 
us to make it easier for them to be supportive through healthier and more responsible buying habits, without additional cost.• Responding to customer concern on plastics
• Wonky Veg box launched to help customers eat healthy food more affordably
• Reinforcing our commitment to 100% British meat. 
Colleagues Colleague Your S ay forums, internal communications, Your 
Say surveys, colleague  social media platforms, CR initiatives.Our colleagues care about how we look after them, from their progression 
within the business to their engagement. They want to be treated equally                       and be rewarded by their commitment.• Your Say forums continued as well as launch of National Your Say forum
• LGBT+ colleague network launched
• Career conversations with every colleague.
Government and 
regulatorsFormal enquiries,  meetings, trade associations,                  
social media, visits.Governmen t policy implemented through legislation, regulation and 
increasingly sector specific voluntary agreements forms the back drop to our 
operational activity.• Formally responding to Government on plastics
• DEFRA roundtable on plastic free aisles 
• Working with Food Standards Agency on Regulating 
our Future.
Investors Enquiries, surveys, Annual General Meeting, meetings. Investors scrutinise o ur activity on a range of environmental and social measures 
as well as financial performance, to ensure investment risks are limited.• Completion of Carbon Disclosure Project for operational carbon
• Response to FAIRR on sustainable proteins.
Non-Governmental 
Organisations (NGOs)Enquiries, surve ys, collaborative projects, visits, meetings, 
blogs, social media.NGOs care a bout the impact we have on the environment and society. 
They ask us to make changes to the way we operate to help address a particular 
topical issue.• Response to Women’s Institute Food Matters campaign 
• Work with Banana Link on responsible sourcing of bananas.
Suppliers GSCOP, conferences, meetings, visits, audits and surveys. We trade with companies all around the world and our challenge is to ensure that their operation is aligned with our values, policy and responsible business practices. Through our terms of trade, monitoring processes, technology, supply chain management, certification and auditing we work hard to ensure compliance.• Supporting British farming through Morrisons 
Farming programme
• Helping farmers to reduce on-farm waste through launch of Wonky Veg 
• Groceries Supply Code of Practice (GSCOP) supplier surveys to ensure good buyer/supplier relationships. 
Industry British Retail Consortium (BRC) w orking groups, IGD working 
groups, industry conferences, collaborative projects. We know the positive impact working co llaboratively as an industry can have to 
help tackle the issues that affect our society and environment. In some cases, joining forces is the only way to create meaningful change. • IGD food waste measurement working group
• Signatories to the UK Plastics PACT
• BRC Environment Steering Group.38
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Governance Stakeholder engagementAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Engaging with our stakeholders enables us to identify issues  
and opportunities and respond to changing needs.ONGOING ENGAGEMENT WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERSCorporate governance facilitates effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that  
delivers long term success. It is driven by the leaders of a Company who come together regularly.  
They operate within established values to determine strategy as distinguished from the  
day-to-day operational management. Our corporate responsibility programme is formally  
incorporated into our governance structures.EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY INTO OUR BUSINESS
Executive Committee
Implementation measures and performance are reported to the 
Executive Committee which is chaired by our Chief Executive. 
The Executive Committee is responsible, amongst other matters, 
for the development and implementation of our strategy (subject to the overall supervision by the Main Board), financial performance, reporting and control, risk management and the development of corporate policies and procedures for the Group. The central commitments and KPIs for the corporate responsibility programme are managed on an ongoing basis under the stewardship of relevant Executive Committee Directors who are assessed alongside their wider performance as part of their Professional Development Review (PDR).Corporate Responsibility 
commitments and KPI owners 
Across the business we have a key contact for 
each commitment and KPI. 
These contacts are responsible for day-to-day 
management and progress. They work alongside our stakeholders to ensure we are effectively managing the issues that matter to our business. Each contact is required to provide updates to the Corporate Responsibility team and their relevant Executive Committee Director.
Corporate Compliance  
and Responsibility Committee
Development and progress in our sustainability agenda are reported at the highest level  
to the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee (CCR).
The CCR meets at least three times a year and 
performs an oversight, monitoring and advisory role for key areas of corporate governance and development, including health and safety, environment, competition, regulatory ethical compliance and corporate responsibility.Store Managers
Morrisons CR agenda is embedded in a Store Manager’s operational activity in a variety of ways.
For example, stores are measured on their 
waste and markdowns as a percentage of sales, and water and energy use as profit and loss. Responsible business strategy is communicated to Store Managers via training, Internal Communications and retail operations. 
Store Managers provide feedback on their 
performance centrally via reports, surveys and data management systems. Shop floor 
colleagues
Shop floor colleagues are 
asked to take part and drive Morrisons CR agenda through various internal initiatives and campaigns. For example, Energywise, unsold food to charity, community champion activity. 
Site colleagues 
Site colleagues drive Morrisons CR agenda through various on-site initiatives. For example, there are waste champions in every site that are responsible for removing unnecessary waste from their operations. Your Say forums are also in place to improve engagement and generate ideas for business efficiencies. Site Managers
Site Managers are aware of the CR issues that are most prevalent for their site operations. 
For example, health and safety, animal welfare, 
energy and waste are high on their agenda. Sites are required to report environmental data to the Environment Agency as part of their legal requirements. Health and Safety reporting is through line management and reported/collated by HR on site.
Responsible business strategy is communicated 
to Site Managers via training and Internal Communications. “ At our store we take corporate responsibility 
very seriously. It’s part of business as usual, whether it’s reducing our energy, removing unnecessary food waste, keeping our colleagues happy and motivated or working 
with local charities and food banks through 
our Community Champion activity.”
 Morrisons Store Manager
“ We are encouraged to put forward ideas 
to make our workplace better, it can be anything from colleague engagement to reducing waste or energy.”
   Morrisons Manufacturing colleague39
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLCAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Governance Stakeholder engagementFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2016/17 2017/18 UPDATE
Help British farmers to be 
sustainable, profitable and competitiveIntegrated dairy beef 
supply chains.To secure 10,000 dairy cattle per year through alliances with our milk processors and their farmers by 2018.7,000 calves placed on farms in 2017. 
High quality, competitive British beef.Establish Beef Shorthorn as the breed for The Best range of beef in all stores by 2019.Shorthorn established and on sale in 380 stores under ‘The Best’ range.
Improving quality. To establish a programme to improve eating quality of British fresh pork in stores by 2018.Hampshire Pork launched under ‘The Best’ range. 
Animal welfare. Create a reference guide for all our pig farmers on environmental enrichment to improve animal welfare by 2017.Completed. AHDB guide for environmental enrichment is also available. 
Create a reference guide for all our pig farmers on free farrowing to improve animal welfare by 2018.Free farrowing project started and will be available in early 2018. 
All own brand fresh shell eggs will be from non-caged hens by 2025. Acquisition of free range egg producer, Chippendale Foods, will help to bring forward our commitment date.
NEW: Refresh and communicate welfare policies and introduce   measures /indicators for welfare issues.
Food safety and animal welfare. To roll out Red Tractor Plus standard across our fresh British pork  
by 2018.Red Tractor Plus standard rolled out to all farms; progress/compliance audits      will be completed in 2018.
Overuse/misuse of antibiotics in farming.To establish monitoring of antibiotic use and continuous improvements in chicken, eggs and pork by 2017.Policy developed and shared. Monitoring established for chicken supply; have developed the process for eggs and pork, with results coming in 2018; set up monitoring and reporting for milk. 
NEW: Implement reduction policies across all species. Introduce measures and metrics for restricted Critically Important Antibiotics (CIAs), and the elimination of colistin and routine use.
Ensure authenticity, provenance 
and safety of our productsFoodborne bacteria. We will meet FSA targets on campylobacter levels year-on-year. In 2017, only 0.8% of our chickens had the higher levels of contamination from a 
total of 477 chickens tested.
Provenance of international foods.We will build closer working relationships with our growers through engagement with our international ‘at source’ Technical team.‘At source’ international team in five countries including Spain, Chile, Holland, South Africa and Peru. OUR FOCUS AREAS IN DETAIL40
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Performance summaryAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach ContentsFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2016/17 2017/18 UPDATE
Reduce general operational 
waste and carbon emissionsCarbon reduction. 30% absolute reduction in operational carbon emissions by 2020 
(2005 baseline).Achieved two years ahead of target. 34% absolute reduction in operational carbon emissions (2005 baseline). A new science-based target will be developed in 2018/19. 
Water reduction. 20% absolute reduction in operational water consumption by 2020 (2012 baseline).Target closed due to lack of accurate usage data. We will work with internal and external stakeholders to consider a new target for operational water use in 2018/19. 
Packaging. NEW: By 2025 all own brand plastic packaging will be recyclable, reusable or compostable. 
Reduce food waste Measurement. We will report publicly on our operational food waste data. 2017/18 store operational food waste by weight was 11,028 tonnes, with 796.89 tonnes of edible unsold food redistributed through our unsold food programme. Scope and criteria of our reporting can be found on page 48. 
Redistribution. To double the amount of food redistributed by 2020 (2016 baseline). 3.4 million (1.1 million or 796.89 tonnes in 2017/18) products donated through stores unsold food programme since 2016; 59.5 tonnes redistributed to FareShare through manufacturing sites in 2017/18; 1,599 tonnes redistributed to Community Shop/Company Shop in manufacturing and logistics in 2017/18. 
Hotspots. Food waste hotspots projects delivered through WRAP. Operational review by WRAP of Morrisons Farmers Boy manufacturing site to reduce pie waste within their Greenside site. 
Customer food waste. We will help to reduce the amount of food and drink our customers waste in the home.On pack changes to help customers reduce food waste. 
Continued support of Love Food Hate Waste campaign. 
Customer insight survey conducted on food waste. 41
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Performance summaryAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
OUR FOCUS AREAS IN DETAIL  
continuedFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2016/17 2017/18 UPDATE
Look after our colleagues
 Training and development. We will continue to invest in MyJob training, providing colleagues with 
the skills to do their job properly.We continued our MyJob programme with all store managers, people managers and commercial buying teams continuing to develop their technical and leadership skills. We extended this to all our store managements teams, manufacturing, supply chain and logistics, with a total of 2,500 taking part in the programme. 
We will hold a career conversation with every colleague each year to establish their career aspirations and how we can support those aspirations.As part of our performance cycle we now offer all colleagues a career planning meeting to map out their goals and pathways to achieving this. 
We will deliver programmes across the business to enable colleagues to progress in their career.We introduced Pathway programmes for colleagues in retail (Team Manager Pathway, Senior Manager Pathway, Store Manager Pathway) manufacturing and logistics as well as a buyer pathway programme for colleagues to progress to a Buyer level in commercial. In 2017, c.1,000 colleagues applied for the Pathway programmes.
We will maximise the potential of our apprenticeship levy to enable colleagues to gain new skills and progress in their career.In 2017, we initiated the following apprenticeship schemes across the business: Degree Apprenticeship, Floristry, Butchery, Bakery, Fishmonger, Asset Care, Engineering, CIMA, Software Development, CIPD, Abattoir & Butchery and Food Science. 545 colleagues have now started their apprenticeships.
We will fill 70% of appointments internally. We have filled 80% of appointments internally.
Diversity. Through our career programme, we will continue to progress a diverse range of colleagues reflective of the communities we serve.Increased the number of female store managers from 34 (7%) to 86 (18%) in 2017. 
Diversty working groups established in five key priorities - gender, culture, 
disability, parents and careers and LGBT+. 
Engagement. We will continue to increase overall engagement through Your Say forums year-on-year.Regular Your Say forums in place across the business with two national Your Say forums taking place providing colleagues with the opportunity to discuss their point of view to the Chief Executive and Group People Director. 
Your Say survey – Continued improvement scores on ‘My manager helps and supports me’ year-on-year.Response rates for the Your Say survey increased by 10% from 2016 with 81,294 colleagues completing the survey. Each business area improved overall engagement scores.
The category relating to my manager and support improved from 67% to 70% and 
the questions “my manager helps and supports me” improved from 73% to 75%.42
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Performance summaryAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
OUR FOCUS AREAS IN DETAIL  
continuedFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2016/17 2017/18 UPDATE
Look after our colleagues  
continuedWellbeing. In 2017, we will implement wellbeing calendars tailored to each 
divisional need.Calendar was introduced in January 2017 and has been issued monthly to retail, manufacturing and logistics. 
In 2017, we will establish a wellbeing programme tailored to specific challenges within each function.Introduced Health Surveillance schemes across both manufacturing and retail.
Physio provided to our sites to support colleagues to maintain attendance or 
return to work quicker.
We will review colleague benefits to improve financial wellbeing by end of 2017.Introduced MyPerks online discount site to help our colleagues money go further. 
Introduced a new pension scheme to allow lower earnings the option to save for 
retirement and also benefit from much improved life assurance cover.
Safety. We will improve preventable colleague absence year-on-year.
Absence percentages have decreased in 2017 to 3.17%, previous year was 3.54%
Trialled preventative physio in retail for colleagues with musculoskeletal problems.
Source responsiblySustainable seafood. Maintain seafood policies and improvement projects to reduce the 
environmental and social impacts of the seafood we buy.Management of supply in line with policies have been maintained and we continue to engage with a range of project work to drive improvement in environmental and social standards in our supply chains  for example Seafood Task Force, Project UK Fisheries Improvement (PUKFI) as well as sponsorship of academic research. 
Support the work of Project UK for six UK fisheries to achieve Marine Stewardship Council certification by 2018.Support has continued for the first phase of PUKFI. We are also supporting an expansion of the PUKFI programme of work which we expect to launch in the coming year. 
NEW: Revision of seafood sourcing policy.
Timber. All timber and timber derived products must be third party certified sustainable.87% of wood and wood derived products were Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified approved alternatives or recycled in own brand household and beauty products and 72% FSC approved alternatives or recycled in own brand home and leisure products.
Palm oil. Continue to monitor supplier compliance to RSPO certified palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives.We continue to survey own brand first tier suppliers as part of an annual survey and compliance to RSPO membership. We will work to improve data collection and reporting of RSPO certified palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives in our own brand products. 
43
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Performance summaryAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
OUR FOCUS AREAS IN DETAIL  
continuedFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2016/17 2017/18 UPDATE
Supplier working conditions Internal education and awareness. Deliver bespoke Ethical Trading training to commercial and supply chain 
colleagues in the UK and Hong Kong.Eight workshops delivered in 2017 covering more than 80 colleagues.
Additional sessions held for people, manufacturing and technical teams.
People Management representative from each manufacturing and 
logistics site to attend a Stronger Together Workshop. 
Tackling Modern Slavery Toolkits to be implemented at all sites by 
June 2017.Started annual programme to deliver Stronger Together training to our manufacturing and logistics people managers. 
Toolkits have been implemented at all 24 manufacturing and logistics sites, 
including new manufacturing site Carnoustie.
E-learning training delivered to 537 key colleagues in manufacturing and logistics. 
Clothing. Recruit additional Ethical Trading resource to enhance our approach to 
tackling modern slavery risk in our Nutmeg clothing business.Ethical Trading Manager appointed into the business. 
Policy. NEW: We will review and relaunch the Morrisons Ethical Trading Policy & Supplier Handbook to ensure it remains relevant, practical and effective at identifying issues in our supply chain and supports our suppliers to deliver meaningful improvement.
Modern slavery. Publish the Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking statement by the end of June 2017.
Published and available at www.morrisons-corporate.com
NEW: We will commission and deliver bespoke Modern Slavery training for our Produce, People and Site Managers in collaboration with the GLAA.
NEW: We will undertake Independent Modern Slavery risk assessment 
programme at our own manufacturing and logistics sites in collaboration with anti-slavery charity Hope for Justice.
NEW: We will develop and roll out updated and revised, bespoke 
Modern Slavery toolkits in our UK supply chain.
NEW: We will deliver Modern Slavery e-learning to an additional 400 first 
line managers. 44
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Performance summaryAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
OUR FOCUS AREAS IN DETAIL  
continuedFOCUS AREA ISSUE/TOPIC AGREED COMMITMENT 2016/17 2017/18 UPDATE
Healthy customers Customer choice. ‘Eat Smart’ Counted, Balanced and Endorsed range to be launched and 
rolled out in 2017.Complete and rolled out to all stores. 
Sugar reduction. Working towards Public Health England’s Sugar Reduction guidelines, reducing sugar in key categories which contribute to children’s sugar intake.Exempt from the sugar tax levy on soft drinks following reformulation work. 2017/18 sugar reduction activity: 
• 60.6 tonnes sugar removed from biscuits
• 149 tonnes sugar removed from breakfast cereals
• 59.3 tonnes from cakes and morning goods
• 126.8 tonnes sugar removed from ice cream
• 185.8 tonnes sugar removed from puddings
• 34 tonnes sugar removed from sweets
• 21.1 tonnes sugar removed from yoghurts.
Strategy. Health and wellbeing strategy launched and delivered in 2017. Strategy launched and the Working Group, comprising senior colleagues from 
across the business including Commercial, Corporate Affairs, Technical, Own Brand and Nutrition meet monthly to drive the Strategy.
Supporting local communities
 Charity partnerships. Raise at least £2.5m each year for charity partner CLIC Sargent. £3.2m raised – a record breaking year.
Colleague/customer fundraising. Support important campaigns including Poppy Appeal, Children In Need, Marie Curie Daffodil Appeal and Walking With The Wounded.Poppy Appeal – £1.7mChildren In Need – £222,000Daffodil Appeal – £554,000Walking With The Wounded – £34,000.
Respond quickly to opportunities to support other causes close to the hearts of our colleagues and customers.British Red Cross – £697,000Grenfell Tower Fire – £147,000Bradley Lowery Foundation – £71,000DEC Appeals – £72,000. 
Local community engagement. Continue to make a positive difference in local communities by donating over £7.5m in grant awards through the Morrisons Foundation.£10m+ donated to hundreds of charities across England, Scotland and Wales.
Support the causes our colleagues care about by donating £250,000+ in match funding to the charities closest to their hearts through the Morrisons Foundation.£500k+ in match funding – the Foundation’s biggest year since launch.
Use the positive sentiment generated by grant donations to engage with the media and strengthen relationships with local communities.More than 250 pieces of positive news coverage relating to the Foundation’s donations. 45
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Performance summaryAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
OUR FOCUS AREAS IN DETAIL  
continuedThe Board of Directors of Morrison (WM) Supermarkets plc (“Morrisons”) engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information 
described below and set out in Morrisons’ Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 for the period ended 4 February 2018.INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT  
to the Directors of Morrison (WM) Supermarkets plc
Our conclusion
Based on the procedures we have performed 
and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has 
come to our attention that causes us to believe 
that the Selected Information for the period ended 4 February 2018 has not been prepared, 
in all material respects, in accordance with the 
Reporting Criteria.
This conclusion is to be read in the context of what 
we say in the remainder of our report.Selected Information
The scope of our work was limited to assurance 
over the information on page 48 titled ‘KPIs 
Assured and Basis of Preparation’ in Morrisons’ 
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 (the “Selected Information”).
The Selected Information and the Reporting Criteria 
against which it was assessed are summarised in 
the table below. Our assurance does not extend 
to information in respect of earlier periods or to any other information included in the Corporate 
Responsibility Report 2017/18.
Selected Information Reporting Criteria 
Selected information 
consists of the 4 KPIs on 
pages 48 titled ‘ KPIs 
Assured and Basis of 
Preparation’  of the 
Corporate Responsibility 
Report 2017/18.The reporting criteria as included on pages 48 titled 
‘
KPIs Assured and Basis of 
Preparation’ of the 
Corporate Responsibility 
Report 2017/18.Professional standards applied  
and level of assurance
We performed a limited assurance engagement 
in accordance with International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of 
Historical Financial Information’, issued by the 
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. A limited assurance engagement is 
substantially less in scope than a reasonable 
assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding 
of internal control, and the procedures performed 
in response to the assessed risks.
Our Independence and Quality Control
We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
in England and Wales (ICAEW) Code of Ethics, which includes independence and other requirements 
founded on fundamental principles of integrity, 
objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.We apply International Standard on Quality Control (UK) 1 and accordingly maintain a comprehensive 
system of quality control including documented 
policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards 
and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 
Our work was carried out by an independent team with experience in sustainability reporting 
and assurance.
Understanding reporting and measurement 
methodologies
The Selected Information needs to be read and 
understood together with the Reporting Criteria, 
which Morrisons is solely responsible for selecting and applying. The absence of a significant body of 
established practice on which to draw to evaluate 
and measure non-financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measurement techniques 
and can affect comparability between entities 
and over time. The Reporting Criteria used for the reporting of the Selected Information are as at 
4 February 2018.46
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Assurance statement Feedback and contact informationAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach ContentsINDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT  
to the Directors of Morrison (WM) Supermarkets plc, continued
Work done
We are required to plan and perform our work in 
order to consider the risk of material misstatement 
of the Selected Information. In doing so, we:
•  made enquiries of Morrisons’ management, 
including the Corporate Responsibility (CR) team 
and those with responsibility for CR management and group CR reporting;
•  obtained an understanding of the design and 
operation of the controls in place in relation 
to the collation and reporting of the selected information, including controls over third party 
information (where applicable);
•  made enquiries of relevant company management, 
personnel and third parties;
•  performed analytical procedures related to the Selected Information;
•  considered the significant estimates and 
judgements made by management in the 
preparation of the Selected Information;
•  performed limited substantive testing on a 
selective basis of the Selected Information at 
corporate head office and in relation to a number of sites to check that data had been appropriately measured, recorded, collated and reported; and
•  considered the disclosure and presentation  
of the Selected Information.Morrisons’ responsibilities
The Directors of Morrisons are responsible for:
• designing, implementing and maintaining 
internal controls over information relevant to the preparation of the Selected Information that is free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error;
•  establishing objective Reporting Criteria for 
preparing the Selected Information;
•  measuring and reporting the Selected Information based on the Reporting Criteria; and
•  the content of the Corporate Responsibility 
Report 2017/18.
Our responsibilities
We are responsible for:
•  planning and performing the engagement to 
obtain limited assurance about whether the 
Selected Information is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
•  forming an independent conclusion, based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained; and
•  reporting our conclusion to the Directors of Morrisons.This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for the Board of Directors of 
Morrisons in accordance with the agreement 
between us, to assist the Directors in reporting Morrisons’ corporate responsibility performance and 
activities. We permit this report to be disclosed in 
the Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 for the period ended 4 February 2018, to assist the Directors 
in responding to their governance responsibilities 
by obtaining an independent assurance report in connection with the Selected Information. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept 
or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Board of Directors and Morrisons’ for our work or 
this report except where terms are expressly agreed 
between us in writing.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
Chartered Accountants  
Leeds
4 May 201847
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Assurance statement Feedback and contact informationAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach ContentsThe following KPIs have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended 4 February 2018,  
except for KPI 1 relating to own brand primary packaging which has been  
prepared for the year ended 31 December 2017.KPIs ASSURED AND BASIS OF PREPARATION
KPI BASIS OF PREPARATION
1)  81.4% own brand primary packaging  
was recyclable by weight• Percentage figure represents own brand primary packaging placed on to the market during 2017 calendar year sold in 491 stores and online as well as in-house purchasing figures for own 
brand packaging. 
• ‘Primary packaging’ is defined as packaging placed on to the market that a Morrisons customer will take home. 
• ‘Recyclable’ is defined by UK On Pack Recycling Label scheme as:
 –‘Widely recycled’ used when 75% or more of local authorities have kerbside collection facilities for that packaging type in their area; or 
 –‘Recycle with bags at larger stores’ PE Wrap/Film/Bags.
Exclusion
Gibraltar store is excluded from this report.    
2)  Store operational food waste by weight,  
11,028.8 tonnesData represents food wasted in all 491 stores during 2017/18 financial year. 
Material type
The scope of the calculation includes both edible and inedible parts, e.g. avocado including stone and skin. 
Data sources 
Food wasted via handheld terminals (HHT) recorded as ‘waste - out of date’ (option 1 on HHT) and ‘waste - damaged’ (option 2 on HHT). Monthly breakdown data is provided by the HHT Support team. 
Calculations
Third party data analysts, Valpak, analyse each individual product line removing the weight of packaging for each product leaving a weight for food. 
The weight of the packaging is based on their existing calculations they hold for own brand packaging data. Assumptions are made when a store scans a box of loose fruit to be wasted  
(e.g. box of bananas or apples) that the box is assumed to be full.
Destinations
At present, a proportion of edible food that is wasted is used in colleague canteens and in colleague sales, however this is not currently captured on the HHTs. Food is placed in waste bins  
at the back of stores and is collected by waste contractors to go to anaerobic digestion, composting, controlled combustion and as a last resort landfill. For a breakdown of store waste collected 
at the back of stores and its recycling, please refer to page 24 of this Report. 
Categories included 
• Pre-pack dairy and meat
• Fruit and vegetables• Plant bread and cakes
• Cans, packets and bottles• Butchery
• Sandwiches• Bakery
• Freezers• Cake shop
• Fish
Exclusions 
Food wasted in cafés, staff canteens, operational waste at counters and salad bar are excluded in this calculation.  
Food wasted that is edible and has been donated to local community groups.
3)  1.1 million products donated to local  
community groups through Morrisons  
unsold food programmeData represents cumulative donations of 3.4m as 2016/17 (2.3m) and 2017/18 (1.1m) financial years.  A single ‘product’ is defined as an item or multiple items packaged together as follows: 
• A single product which is sold in our stores with a price per unit, for example a mango. 
• A multi-pack, for example a pre-packaged bag of apples. 
• A package of multiple items, for example a punnet of strawberries. 
• Multiples of loose produce of the same type packaged into one back, for example loose onions.
4) 537 site colleagues trained on Modern Slavery Data represents 2017/18 financial year. 
E-learning module training delivered to on-site colleagues who interact with other colleagues and are responsible directly or indirectly for other colleagues welfare as well as additional 
relevant colleagues. 48
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Assurance statement Feedback and contact informationAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach ContentsKPIs ASSURED AND BASIS OF PREPARATION  
continued
Management’s Statement
The Directors of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC are and shall be responsible for this Management’s 
Statement and for reporting the four KPIs as at 4 February 2018 in accordance with the reporting criteria 
set out on page 48 . In doing so we have:
• designed, implemented and maintained internal controls and processes over information relevant  
to the measurement and preparation of the four KPIs that is free from material misstatement,  
whether due to fraud or error;
• established objective reporting criteria for measuring and preparing the four KPIs and applied them consistently;
• presented information, including the criteria, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable  
and understandable information; and
• measured and reported the 4 KPIs based on the reporting criteria.  
Steven Butts  
Head of Corporate Responsibility  
On behalf of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC 
4 May 201849
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Assurance statement Feedback and contact informationAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach ContentsWm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Hilmore House, Gain Lane 
Bradford BD3 7DL
Telephone: 0845 611 5000
Visit our website: 
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr
Our 2017/18 Annual Report and  
Financial Statements can be found at:  
www.morrisons-corporate.com/annual-report-2018
Designed and produced by  
Radley Yeldar.  ry.com
Photography by Richard Moran  
unless otherwise stated50
Corporate Responsibility Report 2017/18 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLCAssurance Performance summary Our focus areas Why it matters Strategy and approach Contents
Assurance statement Feedback and contact information