Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC  
Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Food we’re  
all proud of1
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
This icon is used throughout this 
report to denote the top three challenges we face.Supporting  
British farmers 
p13
Supporting the 
communities  
we serve
p31Our focus areas
Selected KPIs within this  
Report have been independently 
assured by our auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
using the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised). Helping our  
customers to live 
healthier lives
p29Ensuring food  
safety, quality  
and provenance
p19
Reducing  
food waste
p21Looking after  
our colleagues
p23 
Respecting  
human rights
p27Sustainable  
sourcing
p25Removing, reducing, reusing and  
recycling  
plastic 
p15
Tackling  
climate change 
p17Strategy and approach 2
Who we are 2
Our business model 3
What we’ve achieved in 2019/20 4
Chief Executive’s introduction 5
Key global challenges 6
Listening to our customers 7
Sustainable Development Goals 8
Behind the scenes:  
stakeholder engagement10
Behind the scenes: governance 11
Our corporate responsibility 
strategy12
Our focus areas 13
Performance summary 33
Our focus areas in detail 33
Assurance 40
Assurance statement 40
KPIs assured and Basis of Preparation.421
Top three  
challenge
2
Top three  
challenge
3
Top three  
challenge
3
Top three  
challengeThis is Morrisons 14th Corporate 
Responsibility Report. It reports on our corporate responsibility programme progress and activity from 2019/20 
This Report should be read together with our 2019/20 
Annual Report and Financial Statements, which can be  
found at:  www.morrisons-corporate.com/investor-centre
Why corporate responsibility matters to Morrisons...
It’s important that we listen and respond to the issues 
that our customers and wider stakeholders care about. Doing so ensures we remain a sustainable, efficient and competitive business.
Creating a meaningful corporate responsibility programme 
ensures transparency and adds value to our business.
If you would like to comment on our corporate 
responsibility programme, the report itself or any of the issues we highlight, please email: cr@morrisonsplc.co.ukAbout this report
Distribution centreNumber of stores by area
Manufacturing site
00
South 
230Central 
145North 
117
2
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
Established in
1899Distribution centreNumber of stores  
by area
Manufacturing siteOur focus on fresh food is supported by our  
‘farm to fork’ business model. We buy many of our 
fresh products directly from farmers and fishermen, process through our own manufacturing sites and abattoirs and distribute through our own network, the only British supermarket to do so. This gives us more control over the provenance and quality of the food we sell in our stores. We have more skilled specialists on hand to prepare fresh food in store than any other retailer, with over 9,000 fully trained craftspeople including butchers, bakers, fishmongers and cheesemongers.
Every week, around 12 million customers pass through 
our doors or shop online, and more than 98,000 colleagues across the business work hard each day to deliver a great service. Our aim is to give our customers more of what matters to them, offering great quality food at low prices.We are a British born and bred, 
value‑led grocer. We have grown from a market stall to the UK’s fourth largest supermarket. We’re both food makers and shopkeepers, which makes us different from our competitors.
98,000+
colleagues
9,000
trained butchers,  
bakers and fishmongers12m
customers each week
0.8 %
like ‑for‑l ike sales
£408 m
underlying profit before tax18
manufacturing sites
8
distribution centres
492
storesWe are food makers and shopkeepers
00Resources and 
relationships
Customers 
• Ar ound 12 million customer  
transactions every week
Colleagues
• O ver 98,000 friendly and  
skilled colleagues, supported by  
a high quality management team
Sites
• 4 92 conveniently located  
supermarkets
•
 1
8 manufacturing sites,  
eight distribution centres and  
an increasing digital presence
Brand
• A w ell-loved brand becoming  
more relevant and accessible  
to more customers
•
 O
nline delivery service available  
to over 90% of British households
•
 St
ores across Britain giving the  
brand national reach
Financial strength
• A s trong balance sheet, with a largely 
freehold estate, low debt and a net 
pension surplus
•
 C
ontinued generation of significant  
and sustainable levels of free cash flowOutcomes
Customers
• An  improving shopping trip  
informed by listening
•
 M
ore customers, buying more  
from us, more often
•
  Cu
stomers can get what they want, 
when they want it
Colleagues
• E ngaged and motivated colleagues
•
  C
olleagues sharing in the success  
of the business
•
 A f
air day’s pay for a fair day’s work
Suppliers
• E stablishing lasting relationships•
 W
orking together with simplified terms
•
  W
ays of working that comply with the 
Groceries Supply Code of Practice
Shareholders
• A s trong balance sheet•
  A
 cash generative business with  
low levels of debt
•
 S
trong financial performance and returns
Community
• M aking a positive contribution to society•
 R
especting human rights and ethical  
trading practices
•
 S
upporting good causes and  
helping people in times of need
Environment
• R emoving, reducing, reusing and 
recycling the plastic we use 
•
 R
educing food waste
•
 S
upporting British farmers to be 
more sustainable
•
 T
ackling climate changeOur business is different in many ways...
Food maker
Our food making skills provide 
customers with products that are fresh, good quality, great value,  
and made by usDistributor
By controlling the whole supply chain, we know where our food comes from and can provide our customers with what they want, when they want itWholesaler
Through stores, manufacturing, online and our wholesale partners, we can leverage our brand to achieve meaningful and sustainable capital light growthRetailer
Understanding our customers powers the decisions we make. Customers love our brand and  
see us as competitive and locally  
relevant
 
We are a diverse team, united by our ways of working and our food maker and shopkeeper credentials
•
 O
ver half of the fresh food we  
sell we make ourselves
•
 E
very day, our skilled food makers 
on Market Street make fresh food 
for our customers
•
 W
e make fresh food in our 
manufacturing sites across the UK
•
 O
ur automated production 
lines increase productivity and efficiency, and reduce waste
•
 W
e work with our suppliers to 
carefully source the products we don’t make ourselvesOur national distribution network  
moves the food we make and buy
•
 O
ur stores are serviced by seven 
regional distribution centres and 
one national distribution centre
•
 T
his network supports our growth 
through other channels
•
 T
echnology simplifies the links 
between sites and storesWe are a wholesaler, providing 
products to retail partners and wholesale customers
•
 W
e aim to make our brands  
more popular and accessible,  
and to increase volume through 
our existing assets
•
 W
e leverage the strength of 
our brands and manufacturing capability to deliver good quality products at great value
•
 W
e have the Safeway brand which 
we provide for wholesale partnersWe sell the products we make 
and buy, in our stores and online
•
 L
istening informs the 
improvements we make
•
  W
e have a Morrisons price list, 
providing good quality fresh 
food and great value
•
 O
ur shopkeepers care deeply 
about service
•
  O
ur ‘More’ Card helps us  
to understand and serve our customers better, by tailoring offers for them
•
  O
ver 90% of British households 
now have access to our online offer, and we continue to expand our ‘reach’
…delivering through our seven priorities… …and supported by our five ways of working
1To be more competitive
2To serve customers better
3Find local solutions
4Develop popular  
and useful services5To simplify and speed up 
the organisation
6To make the core supermarkets strong again
7Naturally digital1Customers first
2Teamwork
3Freedom in the framework4Listening and responding
5Selling, controlling costs, growing profits and removing waste
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20
3
Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasBusiness model Listening to our customers Stakeholder engagement Governance Chief Executive’s introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGs
Our business model
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/204
Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasBusiness model Listening to our customers Stakeholder engagement Governance Chief Executive’s introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGs
£15 m
raised for farmers 
through For Farmers range
3.4m
meals donated to  
FareShare since 2017100
rapid electric vehicle charging points installed in our stores
40
V Taste vegan  
products  
launchedFree in ‑s tore 
meeting spaces for community groups Increased loose  
fruit and veg ranges extended to 62 stores
2.6bn
calories removed from  
Morrisons own brand 
products Sustainable Food and Farming Award at the Good Farm Animal Welfare Awards 2019
400
popular products now with front of pack recycling logos
9.6%
reduction in Morrisons own brand plastic packaging (2017 baseline)
Black plastic removed from all Morrisons own brand packaging Operational  
science ‑b
ased  
target launchedWhat we’ve achieved in 2019/20
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/205
Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasBusiness model Listening to our customers Stakeholder engagement Governance Chief Executive’s introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGs
“ W e are committed to ensuring we continue to 
make a positive impact on wider society and the 
environment, with the ambition to make it easier and affordable for our customers to live their lives more sustainably.”
 D avid Potts, Chief ExecutiveWe continue to live our purpose ‘to make and provide 
food we’re all proud of where everyone’s effort is worthwhile so more and more people call afford to eat well’. A key part of the purpose is ‘food we’re all proud of’, this underpins what we do from a corporate responsibility perspective. We are committed to ensuring we continue to make a positive impact on wider society and the environment, with the ambition to make it easier and affordable for our customers to live their lives more sustainably. 
We are already seeing the effects of climate change  
in global society, it’s important that we take action 
within our operations and supply chains to reduce  
our own impact. Our ambitious plan is to reduce Morrisons emissions footprint by 33% by 2025, 53% by 2030 and to achieve net zero emissions by 2040. These are science-based targets developed with the help of the Carbon Trust. We’re already making good progress in our own operations against our targets, achieving a reduction of 28% in 2019. We’re now working to set a similar target for our indirect emissions including supply chain, products and services. We have also agreed a series of new commitments to strengthen our position on a number of environmental issues linked to the sourcing of key commodities such as soy, beef, palm oil and timber. 
For the fourth year, we asked our customers to 
take part in our annual customer insight survey. We increased the number of customers taking part in the survey from 4,000 to 5,000 as well as ensuring the sample better reflects our overall customer demographic. The top three issues our customers care about remain the same – ensuring food safety, reducing plastic packaging and supporting British farmers. We have continued to make good progress on our commitment to remove, reduce, reuse and recycle the plastic on our products and in our business. We’ve removed problematic plastics such as black and expanded polystyrene from our products and increased the number of stores with plastic-free fruit and vegetable aisles. As a result of our efforts, in 2019 we were awarded Business in the Community’s Environmental Sustainability Award. 
It’s important that when moving away from plastic, 
we consider the overall environmental impact of our decision. We worked with environmental consultants, WRAP, to analyse our move to increase the amount of loose fresh fruit and vegetables we sell in our stores. The results from the analysis showed that many customers said they prefer to purchase loose where practical as they can buy the exact quantities they need, helping to reduce food waste in the home.
We’re providing further investment into the 
British farming community through our Farming Apprenticeship Fund, attracting younger talent to the industry. The £2m fund will help to provide a solution to the current skills shortage within farming and provide young people with new career opportunities. 
We hit a milestone with our charity partnership 
with CLIC Sargent; so far we’ve raised an incredible £11 million for young lives facing cancer. We’re now aiming to raise £15 million by the end of the partnership in February 2021. This will allow us to open a new CLIC Sargent Home from Home in Manchester – meaning more families will be able to stay together when facing cancer treatment.
All of what we do is through teamwork. I wanted to 
add a personal thank you to all colleagues who help to make this happen. 
David Potts, Chief Executive
Zero
net emissions by 2040  
target launchedChief Executive’s introduction
Climate change
Climate change is already affecting the way we 
live today, we see this through severe weather patterns, rising temperatures and sea levels with global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions now at their highest levels in history. 
Climate change can impact our business in a 
number of ways including security of food supply, price inflation, impacts on economies and disruptions to communities. 
How this relates to Morrisons
It makes good business sense to reduce GHG 
emissions as it not only minimises these threats but it can also deliver efficiencies, operational cost savings and create new market opportunities. Stakeholder pressure for businesses to act continues to grow, with customer awareness  
of climate change at an all-time high. 
How are we responding
In 2019, we launched our science-based 
operational carbon reduction target. This ambitious and stretching target will see us reduce emissions by 33% by 2025, 53% by 2030  
and net zero emissions by 2050. 
We are now working with the Carbon Trust  
to also set a science-based target for our indirect 
or scope 3 emissions.Human rights 
Global food supply chains are complex and complicated, relying on millions of workers to produce the food we sell to our customers. 
Challenges exist throughout these supply chains, 
which can make it difficult for workers to access their rights and often disproportionately impact those with additional vulnerabilities including migrants, women and small scale farmers. 
How this relates to Morrisons 
As a business, we have a responsibility to respect 
the internationally recognised human rights of the people who make and sell our products. This includes fair working conditions, health and safety in the workplace, gender equity and respect for the diverse communities in which we operate.
How are we responding
Our Ethical Trading Policy and Code establish 
key requirements for all suppliers, and details our process to identify, prevent and mitigate risk. We actively monitor compliance through an extensive third party audit programme and provide support for suppliers when issues are identified.
We also work in collaboration with civil society 
organisations and multi-stakeholder initiatives to understand where adverse impacts could occur  
and identify opportunities for improvement.Waste
The linear model of take, make and waste is  
no longer working for business or the planet. 
It’s important we’re moving towards a circular 
economy; removing, reducing, reusing and recycling where possible. This can create innovation and new market opportunities. 
How this relates to Morrisons
Reducing waste makes sense not only from 
an environmental perspective, it also ensures efficiency throughout our operations.
Our customers want us to do more to help 
them live their lives with less plastic, providing alternatives as part of of their shopping  
experience with us.
How are we responding
We’re taking responsibility for the plastic we use, 
by 2025 all own brand plastic packaging will be recyclable, reusable or compostable. We will also reduce own brand plastic packaging by 50%. 
We’ve also introduced a number of initiatives in 
store and online including bring your own container, increased loose fruit and vegetable areas and the introduction of paper grocery bags.
Read more on what we’re doing  
to address climate changep17Read more on what we’re doing  
to protect human rightsp27Read more on what we’re doing  
to reduce plastic wastep15
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20
6
Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasBusiness model Listening to our customers Stakeholder engagement Governance Chief Executive’s introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGs
Key global challenges
It’s important that we recognise and respond to the global challenges that society faces. As a retailer and manufacturer sourcing products both locally  
and internationally, we can play  
a key role in making positive change to address these issues. Ensuring food safety Ensuring food safety
Reducing plastic packaging Reducing plastic packaging
Supporting British farmers Supporting British farmers
Ensuring animal welfare Reducing packaging waste
Selling British products Ensuring animal welfare
Reducing packaging waste Reducing food waste
Trading fairly with suppliers Protecting natural habitats, woodlands and forests
Reducing food waste Selling British products
Selling locally sourced products Addressing climate change NEWNEW
Looking after employees Tackling modern slavery and human trafficking+2
-1
+2
+3
+4Up Down No change
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20
7
Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasBusiness model Listening to our customers Stakeholder engagement Governance Chief Executive’s introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGs
2018/19 top 10 issues results 2019/20 top 10 issues results Every year, we ask our customers 
about the issues that matter  
most to them. This valuable insight helps to shape our Corporate Responsibility programme and subsequent activity, ensuring  
it remains focused on the most material issues to our business. 
In early 2020, 5,000 customers were asked  
to complete our online survey. In the exercise, customers were shown several sets of statements and with each set they are asked to select the options they consider to be the most and least important. This provides each statement with  
a score out of 100 based on its importance.
This year, we reviewed the list of issues in our  
survey to ensure that we are using customer friendly 
language. We’ve also included ‘lowering pesticide use in farming’ as we’ve seen a growing interest in the issue over the last financial year. We have also balanced the age group of respondents to ensure the sample is reflective  
of our typical customer base.
The top three issues our customers care about  
have remained the same for the last three years  
– ensuring food safety, reducing plastic packaging  
and supporting British farmers. Ensuring food safety
We take food safety very seriously and adhere  
to high standards and strict procedures.
Further information can be found on page 19 p19Reducing plastic packaging We’re reducing own brand primary plastic packaging 
by 50% and ensuring when it is used it’s recyclable, reusable or compostable. 
Further information can be found on page 15 p15
Supporting British farmers
We are committed to selling 100% fresh British  
meat, milk and eggs. 
Further information can be found on page 13 p13Listening to our customers
5,000
customers were asked to 
complete our online survey  
in early 20201 1
2 = 2
3 = 2
4 4
5 5
6 6
7 7
8 8
9 9
10 10SDG How we make a positive contribution New Highlights
Supporting charitable causes through the Morrisons Foundation. £3.6m raised through The Morrisons Foundation.
Increased rate of hourly pay for frontline store 
colleagues from £8.70 to £9.00 per hour.Supporting and training our colleagues whilst ensuring a fair day’s pay.
Making it affordable for our customers to eat healthier, quality foods. 10% of fresh fruit and veg is on promotion at any  
one time throughout the year.
Too Good to Go app launched in stores.£50,000 donated to support The Prince’s Farm 
Resilience programme.Reducing food waste by redistributing surplus food to those that need it.
Helping our customers to reduce food waste in the home.Working with British farmers to help to keep them resilient and profitable whilst 
promoting sustainable farming production.
Supporting our colleagues through our wellbeing toolkits. 2.6 billion calories removed from own brand products.
‘My Wellbeing’ site launched for colleagues to help 
with mental, financial, physical and social wellbeing.Helping our customers to live healthier lives by providing affordable healthy food choices. 
Ensuring the food we sell to our customers is produced to the highest standards 
of safety.
Promoting diversity and inclusivity and supporting and training our colleagues. 7,300 books donated to schoolchildren through World Book Day.
Top 30 in the Social Mobility Employer Index.Donating to charitable causes through The Morrisons Foundation.
Improving our talent and gender balance while increasing female representation 
in senior positions throughout our business.‘Women in Morrisons’ events launched.
Increase in female store managers from 7% to 20%.
Working to reduce the amount of plastic we use, to ensure that it doesn’t leak 
into the marine environment.9.6% reduction in own brand primary plastic packaging (2017 baseline).
Operational efficiency of the water we use. Automated water meter readings installed in sites and stores. Operational water target to be reviewed in 2020/21.
Operational carbon reduction initiatives, targets and investments. Continued roll out of voltage optimisation units.
100 Electric Vehicle charging points installed in stores. Offering lower carbon services and products to our customers in our stores.
Promoting diversity, inclusivity and supporting and training our colleagues. 150 colleagues joined degree apprenticeship and 
graduate programmes.
First UK supermarket to join Slave-Free Alliance 
initiative.Ensuring workers rights across our supply chain. 
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20
8
Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasBusiness model Listening to our customers Stakeholder engagement Governance Chief Executive’s introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGs
Sustainable Development Goals
The UN Sustainable Development Goals officially came into force in 2015. The Goals universally apply to all and aim to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities, and tackle climate change on a global scale by 2030. These Goals can’t be realised without participation from all sectors including business. 
We recognise the importance of these Goals and the true value of collaboration in order to create change.
At Morrisons, we want to address these global 
challenges in a meaningful way that is relevant and aligned to our business strategy. We’ve reviewed the focus areas of our strategy and ensured we are aligned to as many goals as possible.
Our corporate responsibility programme is currently 
aligned to the majority of SDGs excluding goals 15, 16 and 17.
Further information on the Sustainable Development 
Goals can be found at www.globalgoals.org 
Sustainable Development Goals continue on page 9.SDG How we make a positive contribution New Highlights
Reducing operational and supply chain carbon emissions. Science-based scope 3 target in development.
28% reduction in operational carbon emissions  
(2017 baseline).
Respecting human rights in the supply chain. 47 varieties of our Naturally Wonky fruit and veg 
range are available across the year. 
First UK supermarket to join the Slave-Free Alliance.Helping our customers to eat affordable, quality food. 
Supporting charitable causes through The Morrisons Foundation. Promoting diversity, inclusivity and supporting and training our colleagues. 
Reducing waste and carbon emissions. 99% operational waste diverted from landfill.
Helping our customers to eat affordable and more sustainable diets. 
Reducing, reusing and recycling the plastic we use. 13% reduction in operational food waste  
(2016 baseline). 
New environmental commitments established for  
our Nutmeg clothing range.Reducing food waste throughout our operations, in our supply chains  
and in customers’ homes. 
Ensure operational waste is recycled and reprocessed. Help our customers to live more sustainably through responsible consumption 
and disposal of the products we sell.
Reducing, reusing and recycling the plastic we use. 83% own brand primary plastic packaging  
is recyclable. 
792 tonnes of surplus food redistributed to  
good causes.Reducing food waste throughout our operations, in our supply chains  
and in customers’ homes. 
Ensure operational waste is recycled and reprocessed. Help our customers to live more sustainably through responsible consumption 
and disposal of the products we sell.
Sustainable sourcing of the fish and seafood we sell. Continued support of the Ocean Disclosure Project.
Water fountains installed in stores providing 
customers with access to free drinking water.Working to reduce the amount of plastic we use, to ensure that it doesn’t leak into the marine environment. 
Promoting sustainable agricultural production through the farming programme. New enhanced palm oil, deforestation and soya policies launched.Responsible sourcing of key commodities. 
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20
9
Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasBusiness model Listening to our customers Stakeholder engagement Governance Chief Executive’s introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGs
Sustainable Development Goals
continued
Further information on the Sustainable Development Goals can be found at www.globalgoals.orgWm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/2010
Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasBusiness model Listening to our customers Stakeholder engagement Governance Chief Executive’s introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGs
Behind the scenes: stakeholder engagement
Engaging with our stakeholders 
enables us to identify issues and opportunities and respond to changing needs.Stakeholder Examples of how we listen What they care about
CommunitiesLetters, enquiries and surveys, local news, social media, local government and council engagement. Our communities want us to be an active neighbour, to support the causes that matter to them and make a positive difference through acting responsibly and thoughtfully.
CustomersCustomer listening groups, sales of products, customer insight survey, social media and correspondence.We know that customers recognise that sustainability issues are important. They want us to make it easier for them to be supportive through healthier and more responsible buying habits, without additional cost. Results of our customer insight survey can be found  
on page 7.
ColleaguesColleague Your Say forums, internal communications, Your Say surveys, colleague social media platforms and Corporate Responsibility initiatives.Our colleagues care about how we look after them, from their progression within the business to their engagement. They want to be treated equally and be rewarded by their commitment.
Government  
and regulatorsFormal enquiries and correspondence, meetings, trade associations, social media  
and visits.Government expect Morrisons to positively contribute to a number of their environmental and societal agendas, engage with formal enquiries and adhere to legislation. 
InvestorsEnquiries, surveys, Annual General Meeting and meetings.Investors scrutinise our activity on a range of environmental and social measures as well as financial performance, to ensure risks are limited, new market opportunities are explored and the business is resilient  
to change. 
Non ‑G overnmental 
Organisations (NGOs)Enquiries, surveys, collaborative projects, 
visits, meetings, blogs and social media.NGOs care about the impact we have on the environment and society. They ask us to make changes to the way we operate to help address a particular topical issue.
SuppliersConferences, meetings, visits, audits  
and surveys.Suppliers want to feel supported by Morrisons. Working closely with our buying teams to create good quality products for our customers. They want a relationship built on mutual trust and respect. 
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/2011
Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasBusiness model Listening to our customers Stakeholder engagement Governance Chief Executive’s introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGs
Behind the scenes: governance
Corporate governance facilitates 
effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that delivers long
‑t
erm success. It is driven 
by the leaders of a company who come together regularly. They operate within established values to determine strategy as distinguished from the day
‑t
o‑d
ay 
operational management. 
Our corporate responsibility 
programme is formally incorporated into our governance structures.
Implementation measures and performance are reported to the Executive Committee which is chaired by our Chief Executive. The Executive Committee is responsible, amongst other matters, for the development and implementation of our strategy, financial performance, reporting and control, risk management and the development of corporate policies and procedures for the Group. The central commitments and KPIs for the corporate responsibility programme are managed on an ongoing basis under the stewardship of relevant Executive Committee Directors who are assessed alongside their wider performance as part of their Professional Development Review.Development and progress in our sustainability agenda are reported to the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee (CCR). CCR members include selected Executive Committee Directors, Non-Executive Directors as well as the company’s Chairman. The CCR meets regularly during the year and performs an oversight, monitoring and advisory role for key areas of corporate governance and development, including health and safety, environment, competition, regulatory ethical compliance and corporate responsibility.We have a business owner for each Corporate Responsibility commitment and KPI. These contacts are typically Senior Management or Management levels within the business and are responsible for day-to-day activity and progress. They work alongside our stakeholders to ensure we are effectively managing the issues that matter to our business. Each contact is required to provide updates to the Group Corporate Services – Corporate Responsibility team and their relevant Executive Committee Director.Governance Structure
Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee
Executive Committee
Group Corporate Services – Corporate Responsibility team
Key focus area commitment ownersWm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/2012
Introduction Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasBusiness model Listening to our customers Stakeholder engagement Governance Chief Executive’s introduction Global context Highlights Strategy The SDGs
Our corporate responsibility strategy
Our ten key focus areas
This Report sets out our ten key focus areas for our programme. New and existing commitments are in place to ensure we’re delivering positive change year‑on
‑ye
ar.
Our focus areas reflect the material issues that  
really matter to our business and our customers.
Within our ten key focus areas, we have identified 
three major challenges that we believe are the most important and relevant for our business to act on. We did this by looking at current industry activity, stakeholder interest and concern, global sustainability activity and trends.
Our purpose ‘To make and provide food we’re all 
proud of where everyone’s effort is worthwhile so more and more people can afford to enjoy eating well’ is at the heart of what drives us as a business every day. 
Our corporate responsibility strategy reflects our 
purpose. It’s about going beyond profit, ensuring we’re making a positive contribution to wider society through the food we make, buy and sell.1
Top three  
challenge3
Top three  
challenge2
Top three  
challenge
Our purpose: 
To make and provide  
food we’re all proud of  
where everyone’s effort  
is worthwhile so more and  
more people can afford  
to enjoy eating well.
Helping our 
customers to live 
healthier livesSupporting  
the communities  
we serveSupporting  
British farmers
We’re committed to supporting  
British farmers to keep them  
affordable, profitable  
and sustainable. Addressing  
climate change
We will reduce our emissions  
by 33% by 2025, 53% by 2030  
and net zero by 2040.Removing, reducing, reusing  
and recycling plastic
We will reduce the plastic we use on our 
products by 50% with 100% of plastic 
packaging used on our products  
to be recyclable, reusable or  
compostable by 2025. 
Respecting  
human rightsSupporting  
our colleaguesReducing  
food waste
Sustainable  
sourcingEnsuring food  
safety, quality  
and provenance13
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
1
Top three  
challengeSupporting   
 British farmers 
We know our customers care about buying  
affordable British products. British farming  
is also essential to our business as it keeps  
supply chains short and efficient.100 %
British own brand fresh  
meat, milk and eggs
£15 m
donated to farmers through  
For Farmers range
£2m
Farming Apprenticeship Fund launched
Sustainable Food and Farming Award
100 %
free range across own brand  
fresh shell eggs
Tier 2
in Business Benchmark on  
Farm Animal Welfare survey 
Zero
UK farming emissions on own brand 
farms by 2030Our commitments and performance 
100% of our fresh own brand meat, 
milk and eggs are British. We buy 
and process animals and whole crops 
directly from British farmers – the 
only UK retailer to do so.
Owning our own abattoirs, manufacturing and packing facilities 
enables us to utilise the whole animal and all of the crop, meaning 
farmers get a fair price and we’re reducing waste. 
Our Farming Programme works with producers to promote 
profitable, responsible farming through collaboration and supply 
chain initiatives.
For example, we work with innovative and progressive farmers, 
who not only lead the way in planting wildflower strips to help 
grow bee numbers, our vital natural pollinators, but also by 
working with us through Chippindale Foods which has helped us 
deliver 100% free range shell eggs for our customers five years 
ahead of target.
www.morrisons-farming.com Our approach
Left: We launched a £2m farming apprenticeship fund  
to encourage a new generation of farmers into the industry.14
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Supporting British farming 
We continue to sell 100% fresh British own brand 
meat, milk and eggs in our stores throughout the year. 
We buy directly from 3,500 British farmers and 
growers and we’re the only retailer with our own livestock buyers. This gives us unique insight into  
the issues affecting farm production. 
Our farming programme covers a broad range of 
issues to keep British products competitive and farm businesses sustainable. We meet supply  
chain farming groups in each sector regularly to discuss practical issues affecting suppliers and  
their concerns for the future. Farming Apprenticeship Fund
As an employer who pays the apprenticeship levy, we have the option to transfer up to 25% of our annual apprenticeship levy funds to other levy-paying or non-levy-paying employers. We were keen to use this transfer funding to support employers within our supply chain to help address the skills issues facing the farming community and provide vital opportunities for people to get on to the career ladder. 
As a result, we launched a £2m farming apprenticeship 
fund to encourage a new generation of farmers into the industry. This fund helps to address the British farming industry’s recruitment challenge, where previously there has been difficulty in attracting young talent. The programme provides apprentices with the industry knowledge required in order to grow produce for food manufacturers and retailers. The programme includes broad based agricultural skills training from a recognised training provider, mentoring and support and retail placements as well as development of an understanding of customer attitudes to British sourcing, farming and animal welfare.
Sustainable Food and Farming Award
Morrisons was named as the corporate winner of the Sustainable Food and Farming Award at the Compassion in World Farming Awards 2019 for our bee-friendly free range eggs product, Morrisons Farmers Favourite. The Sustainable Food and Farming Award recognises businesses that are taking steps to produce meat, dairy and eggs in ways that protect, improve and restore wildlife and the environment.Our free-range egg manufacturing site partners with the charity Bumblebee Conservation Trust to ensure that egg farmers are committed to bee conservation, planting an acre of wildflower meadow for each laying hen range. The scheme has so far seen 57 acres of bee-friendly pollen and nectar rich habitat planted across the UK, and has seen an increase in bee numbers on these farms  
by up to 55%.
Guaranteeing a market for dairy  
bull calves 
We now guarantee a market for all male calves born on Morrisons own brand dairy suppliers’ farms, preventing them from being killed at birth or being sold on to continental veal markets. Our new policy requires farmers to rear the bull calves to a certain weight until 15-40 days of age, at which point they will be bought by beef-rearing company, Buitelaar. Farmers will be paid market price for the calves, with additional premiums given to farms meeting key health indicators, as well as additional payments for certain breeds of calves.
In addition, we’ve committed to buying calves born 
on farms under bovine tuberculosis restrictions. We’re also running a trial to rear the offspring of Jersey and Channel Island breed cows, where male calves are typically smaller with less market value.
What’s next?
Working with our farmers to achieve Net Zero  
for agriculture emissions at least by 2030.
Continuing to develop opportunities for skills and 
succession in farming through the apprenticeship levy and The Prince’s Farm Resilience Programme.
Introducing and implementing additional welfare 
standards for the fresh chicken we sell.Supporting  
 British farmers 
 continuedFarm 24
For the third year running,  
we supported Farmers Guardian’s 
#Farm24 online campaign aimed  
to highlight British agriculture. 
We supported the initiative through our 
digital channels as well as 100 in-store events. The campaign was supported by a host of celebrities this year including James Martin and Sara Cox. The event received over 160 million impressions and reached over 37 million people in its aim to increase the awareness of the British farming industry.
3,500
We buy directly from 3,500 British farmers and growers
“ M orrisons British sourcing policy, 
initiatives such as the Farming 
Apprenticeship Scheme and supporting the farming industry’s efforts to achieve net zero, all demonstrate their strong and clear commitment to back British farming.”
Minette Batters, NFU President
15
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
2
Top three  
challengeRemoving, reducing, 
reusing and recycling  
plastic
We have a responsibility to do the right thing for  
our customers. It’s important we’re moving towards  
a circular plastics economy model; removing, reducing,  
reusing and recycling where possible. 9.6%
reduction in own brand primary plastic 
packaging (4.8% year on year reduction)
83%
own brand plastic packaging is recyclable
Business in the Community’s Environmental Sustainability Award
Zero
problematic black plastic and expanded polystyrene used on our own brand primary food and drinks products
30p
increased price of reusable plastic bag to encourage reuse
1 million
fewer plastic bags sold per week than 2018/19
2nd 
ranked for the second year running in the Greenpeace Supermarket Plastic SurveyOur commitments and performance 
Our ambition is to be a leading corporate 
in the fight to keep plastic in the economy and out of the environment;  
to be an example of what good looks like to other corporates and to help more and more customers live their lives with less reliance on plastic. 
By 2025, all own brand primary plastic packaging will be recyclable, 
reusable or compostable. We will also reduce own brand primary plastic packaging by 50%, extending our previous commitment.
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr/policy/plasticsOur approach
Left: Customers can take their own containers to any 
of our Butcher, Fishmonger and Deli counters in stores, helping them to reduce their plastic use.16
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Removing and reducing the plastic 
we use
Reducing the amount of plastic we use is important 
to us and our customers. In 2019, we used 9.6% less 
plastic packaging on Morrisons products than 2017, 
our baseline year, equivalent of 5,327 tonnes (4.8% 
reduction to 2018).
This has been achieved through a variety of 
measures, examples include removing more than 
30 million trays from fruit and vegetables and in the 
british summer season removing packaging from 
products like cucumbers, asparagus and rhubarb. 
We’ve extended the range of loose fruit and 
vegetables on Market Street in all of our stores and 
in 62 stores have introduced dedicated areas for 
this, offering up to 127 loose varieties of fresh fruit 
and vegetables, delivering more than 150 tonnes of 
plastic savings.
We’ve reduced an additional 3,500 tonnes of plastic 
waste throughout our operations by reducing, 
removing and improving recycling. Examples include 
removing plastic transit packaging for fish saving 
over 800 tonnes of plastic and replacing 280 tonnes 
of plastic bubble wrap used to protect our fruit and 
vegetables with ribbed recycled paper sheets.Encouraging reuse
We support customers to move from single use to 
reuse models. We encourage customers to bring 
their own containers to our counters and during 
the year extended this to include our Deli counters. 
We launched a reusable string produce bag in 
stores, made from 100% unbleached and untreated 
recycled cotton and have introduced products 
such as aluminium straws and refillable household 
cleaning products.
In addition to the introduction of our PEFC certified 
reusable paper bag, we have also increased the 
price of our plastic bags for life from 20p to 30p to 
encourage customers to reuse and not repurchase. 
This equates to an annual reduction of 55 million 
plastic bags or over 2,100 tonnes.
Helping our customers to recycle
Using less plastic is our first priority, but where it is 
required, we are committed to making it recyclable. 
In 2019, 83% of our own brand primary plastic packaging 
was recyclable by weight, up from 81% in 2018.
We removed all problematic hard to recycle 
plastics from our own brand primary packaging. 
This included expanded polystyrene and black 
plastic packaging. All our own-brand ready meals, 
1,200 tonnes, moved from black plastic to 100% 
recyclable trays made from 85% recycled content.
Front of pack ‘recycle me’ and ‘recycle in store’ logos 
now feature on 400 popular Morrisons products, 
which account for over 500 million items sold per 
year. These logos were designed to help customers 
to easily recognise products that can be recycled at 
home or in store.Recognition
We were awarded the Environmental Sustainability 
Award for our work on plastics reduction at the 
2019 Business in the Community’s Responsible 
Business Awards. 
For the second year running, we were ranked 
second in the UK supermarkets league table on 
plastic activity in the ‘Checking Out on Plastics II’ 
report by the Environmental Investigation Agency 
and Greenpeace.
Sponsor of the category Mark Vale, President, UK, 
Ireland and Nordics, UPS said: “Morrisons have 
challenged the norms within their industry; their 
leadership is providing sustainable solutions across  
a variety of different ranges.”
Removing, 
reducing, reusing  
 and recycling  
 plastic
 continuedOwn brand plastic packaging 
footprint
This graph represents our own brand 
plastic packaging footprint by category. 
We are committed to reducing own brand  
plastic packaging by 50% by 2025 (2018 baseline). 
Fruit and veg
Water and drinks
Milk
Meat and fish
Other
Market Street counters
Bakery and cakes
Cleaning products
Grocery products
Cooked meats, deli and cheese
Ready meals
Frozen foods
Salads, sides and dips
Health and Beauty
Sweets and crisps16%
15%
14%
13%
7%
6%
5%
4%
4%
4%
4%
3%
2%
2%
1%50,173 tonnes
1,200
tonnes plastic ready meal trays 
made recyclable and made from 85% 
recycled plastic bottles and trays489
refill points in our stores and cafés 
where customers can refill their own 
reusable water bottle
What’s next?
Working with our manufacturing sites, pack houses 
and suppliers to deliver a 50% reduction in own 
brand plastic packaging.
Working with partners to introduce 
innovative reuse, low plastic and plastic free 
packaging solutions.
Trial to remove plastic carrier bags from some stores.17
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
3
Top three  
challengeTackling  
 climate change
Climate change significantly affects our business  
through its impacts on agricultural yields,  
food prices and supply. 28%
reduction in operational carbon 
emissions achieved
Zero
net emissions by 2040 target launched 
100
electric vehicle charging points  
installed in our car parks
Zero
UK farming emissions on own brand farms by 2030
99%
store operational waste  
diverted from landfillOur commitments and performance 
Reducing our impact is part of good 
shopkeeping. It makes sense not only from an environmental perspective,  
but it also ensures efficiency throughout our supply chain and operations. 
We have a range of projects to deliver greenhouse gas emissions 
savings throughout our supply chain, from field to fork.
We were the first major supermarket to be awarded the  
Carbon Trust Standard in 2008 based on a range of activity  
at the time which we continue to this day.
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr/corporate-responsibility/carbonOur approach
Left: A range of initiatives across the business are driving 
the reduction in emissions. 18
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Tackling  
 climate change 
 continued
Zero UK farming emissions  
on own brand farms by 2030
Emissions from UK farms currently 
amount to 10% of UK GHG emissions. 
While we support the National Farmers 
Union’s aim to encourage the UK agriculture sector to be net zero by 2040, by working with a smaller group of progressive farmers, we think we can respond to society’s need for action and so have set a more challenging target of net zero from our UK agriculture chain by 2030. This will be achieved through working with farmers and supporting the increase of on-farm productivity, farmland carbon storage and renewable energy utilisation. Operational carbon reduction 
We announced our plan to reduce Morrisons operational emissions by 33% by 2025, 53% by 2030 and net zero emissions by 2040 (2017 baseline). 
Our science-based targets were developed with the 
help of the Carbon Trust, a not-for-profit company that provide specialist support to help businesses reduce their emissions. 
In 2019/20, we achieved 28% reduction in 
operational carbon emissions against a 2017 baseline.
We are working with the Carbon Trust to establish 
baseline data for our scope 3 emissions, which includes purchased goods and services in our supply chain. Energy saving initiatives
We’ve carried out a number of energy saving initiatives in stores with a combined total estimated saving of 24,623,196 kWh. Initiatives included LED lighting replacement, voltage optimisation programme and freezer door heater control roll out.
We continued to roll out voltage optimisation units 
and LED lighting upgrades across retail, logistics and manufacturing sites. We have installed voltage optimisation units in stores where we are achieving approximately 4% savings in electricity consumption. 
A number of our stores across the estate now 
have fridges fitted with doors to reduce energy consumption, with estimated energy savings of around 30-40%. 
We have installed trim heat control boxes to 
our frozen cases in a selection of stores in 2019. Trim heaters have been fitted to frozen food cabinets of both full and half glass door cabinets. The heaters reduce power consumption when installed, reducing the demand for heat around  
the frozen glass doors.Efficient logistics 
Our logistics network has continued to undertake a number of activities designed to reduce kilometres travelled and the fuel consumed while delivering food to our stores.
These initiatives include:Longer semi-trailers – Increasing store deliveries 
that are carried out using longer semi-trailers which helps to increase loads.
Increased pallet sizes  – Reducing the number of 
pallets required to service each site.Driving styles  – By using our vehicle telematics 
system we have improved the average miles to 
the gallon of our drivers by reducing harsh braking, acceleration and engine idling time.
Operational waste
We aim for zero waste direct to landfill in  
our stores. We operate a strong reduction  
and recycling programme treating waste as a resource and work with our waste contractors  
to maximise reprocessing.
2019/20 store waste and recycling breakdown
Material Tonnes
Card 96,651
Confidential paper 123
Mixed plastics 6,672
Animal by-product 12,827
Light tubes 1
Oil 3,708
Other recyclables 36,400
Total recycled/reprocessed waste 156,382
Landfill 1,161
Total waste to landfill 0.74%Carbon Trust
standard accreditation  
since 2008
What’s next?
Scope 3 science based target to be set.
Working to engage suppliers through farming 
programmes to reduce on-farm emissions.
19
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Ensuring food 
safety, quality  
 and provenance
It is a priority that our products and  
services meet stringent food safety and  
legal standards. This significantly reduces  
risk and meets customer expectations  
for quality and value. New
‘Keeping Acrylamide Low’ procedure 
launched for Market Street and café products 
Food Safety primary authority award
Zero
crop samples exceeded safe pesticide use
5,013
supplier visits through our  
‘at source’ produce team Our commitments and performance 
All of our own brand manufacturing 
sites must meet our food manufacturing standard and maintain certification against the British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety, which is internationally recognised.
We conduct approval audits to ensure suppliers meet our food  
safety standards before supply commences and hold routine audits 
to monitor ongoing compliance. 
Our retail food safety systems are designed to meet all legal 
requirements and take account of industry guidance and codes of practice.
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr/policy/food-safetyOur approach
Left: All colleagues working in food preparation areas 
have an externally accredited food safety qualification and we regularly audit our stores to ensure standards are being met.20
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Collaboration and engagement 
We are working with the Food Standards Agency 
(FSA) on Regulating our Future, which is a strategy to improve the way food businesses are regulated. The current model of food inspections is one size fits all. The FSA wants a flexible, risk-based approach that is fit for the future and takes into account the changes in the food industry, such as online retailers and food delivery services.
Allergens and recipe management
We continue to embed Natasha’s Law requirements into our rigorous product testing. Natasha’s Law was introduced to protect allergy sufferers from risk of allergens, requiring all food businesses to include full ingredient’s labelling on pre-packaged foods.
As well as improving the control of recipes, we 
utilise our recipe management system to increase the robustness of the process to ensure allergens present are correctly declared on product labels.Pesticides
Suppliers to Morrisons must submit proposed pesticide usage to our expert service provider and pesticide consultants before supply. This ensures that every crop and country is risk assessed against the following criteria: environmental impact, operator safety, consumer safety and risk of illegal residues. 
Compliance to our requirements is monitored 
through our technical teams supported by our pesticides monitoring programme.
Pesticides considered as posing an unacceptable 
risk are not permitted to be used. On this basis we declined the approval of a pesticide on 605 occasions in 2019/20. 
Morrisons pesticide monitoring programme is 
targeted at crops and countries where pesticide residues are most likely to be found. 
A total of 387 samples were analysed in 2019.  
37.5% had no detectable residues. 61.2% had  
residue detections within safe and legal limits  
and 1.3% of samples had a residue that exceeded  
the EU legal limit, but below the acute reference 
dose. 0% of samples exceeded the limit deemed  
to cause consumers potential harm.This compares favourably with the corresponding 2018 annual UK official monitoring, which showed 3.8% of samples with a residue level in exceedance  
of the EU legal limit.
Produce growers supplying fruit and vegetables 
to Morrisons must undergo annual audits to maintain Global GAP and Red Tractor Assurance within the UK or Organic certification. These farm assurance programs evaluate growers against Good Agricultural Practice standards and are based on the principle of Integrated Crop Management. This encompasses prioritisation of non-chemical based methods of disease and pest control within agricultural systems, minimising the use of chemical methods of control.
What’s next?
Continued testing of pesticides on our own brand 
fresh produce.
Continue to embed Natasha’s Law requirements 
into processes.Ensuring food 
safety, quality  
 and provenance 
continuedAcrylamide
When starchy foods are baked, fried, 
grilled, toasted or roasted at high temperatures (usually above 120°C)  
a chemical substance is formed called ‘acrylamide’ which has been linked to some forms of cancer. 
We’ve launched an in-store procedure 
‘Keeping Acrylamide Low’ for the products we sell in our cafés, canteens and on Market Street. 
0% 
of crop samples analysed for pesticide residue in 2019 exceeded the limit deemed  
to cause the consumer potential harm
21
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Reducing  
food waste
Around a third of all the world’s food produced  
is either lost or wasted from farm to fork.  
This creates economic loss, food insecurity  
and subsequent impacts on climate. 13%
reduction in store operational  
food waste (2016 baseline)
New
Too Good to Go initiative  
launched in stores
250 +
farmers supported through our  
Naturally Wonky range
47
varieties of Naturally Wonky  
sold across the year 
3.4 m
meals redistributed to FareShare
1.8m
unsold food products redistributed from 
stores to local community groupsOur commitments and performance 
As a fresh food manufacturer  
and retailer, we are able to control a  
greater proportion of our supply chain, 
effectively managing our waste. 
We buy whole crops and animals from farms where possible 
and process them through our sites. Within our manufacturing, we can rework and repurpose surplus food, creating new market opportunities.
In our stores, we operate a strong waste and markdown procedure 
to ensure we keep food waste to a minimum. 
Our in-store Market Street specialists are on hand to help our 
customers to reduce food waste in the home, providing cooking and storage tips. We also offer a large range of loose fruit and vegetables so customers can buy the exact quantities they need.
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr/policy/food-wasteOur approach
Left: Gadbrook, our fresh vegetable manufacturing  
site, redistributing surplus potatoes to charity,  
The Bread and Butter Thing. 22
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Too Good to Go
We’re working in partnership with Too Good to Go 
to give customers the opportunity to buy Market Street products just past their best before date at a discounted price. The magic boxes of products typically worth around £10 is discounted to £3. Since the initiative launched, we have sold over 37,000 magic boxes through the app.Measuring and reducing operational 
food waste
At Morrisons, we are committed to reducing 
operational food waste by 50% by 2030 (2016 baseline). Working with third party data analysts, Valpak Limited, we have developed a methodology to accurately record food wasted in our stores by weight. 13,665 tonnes of food was recorded as waste, out of date or damaged in 2019/20. Since 2016/17, we have reduced food wasted in stores year-on-year. 
For 2019/20, we have also started to record wasted 
ingredients from products produced in store, which accounted for a further 977 tonnes. We are working with our manufacturing and distribution centres to better measure and prevent food waste. 
Surplus food redistribution
We continue to work with the national charity FareShare to redistribute edible surplus food within our manufacturing and distribution sites. Since 2017, we have redistributed 3.4m meals to FareShare. 
We’re also working with Manchester-based 
charity The Bread and Butter Thing. The Bread and Butter Thing is a community led charity that provides access to discounted food to families struggling to get by in socially deprived areas of Greater Manchester.
Since 2018, we have redistributed 860,364 meals 
to The Bread and Butter Thing. We are also increasing our support through surplus donations during 2020/21 to help them expand their operations nationally.
Through our unsold food programme, we continue 
to work with 450 local community groups to redistribute edible surplus that can’t be sold in our stores. 
Since the programme began in 2016, we’ve donated 
six million unsold food products.Naturally Wonky
We support over 250 farmers through our Naturally Wonky range, helping them to reduce on-farm waste. Wonky fruit and veg occurs for a number of reasons such as poor weather conditions. Products will have been selected from farmers’ crops because they are mis-shapen, have skin blemishes or growth cracks, or are much smaller or larger than average. We sell 47 varieties of Naturally Wonky fresh fruit and vegetables to over 700,000 customers per week. 
In 2019, we sold over 45,000 tonnes of 
Naturally Wonky. 
What’s next?
Measurement of food waste in tonnes in 
manufacturing and distribution centres. Implement recommendations from WRAP’s Retailer Survey helping to reduce food waste in the home.Reducing  
food waste
 continuedIncreasing loose fruit and vegetables 
and reducing food waste in the home
To help our customers to live their 
lives with less plastic, we’ve increased the number of loose fruit and vegetables we sell. 
We worked with environmental 
consultants WRAP to understand the overall environmental impact of this move. Their analysis showed that 72.5% of customers preferred to buy loose as it helped them to buy the correct size, condition or quantity therefore reducing food waste in the home. Further information on this analysis can be found here.
37,000
Too Good to Go magic bags  
sold in 201945,000
tonnes of Naturally Wonky fruit and vegetables sold  
in 2019
23
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Looking after  
 our colleagues
The success of Morrisons is dependent on  
recruiting, developing and retaining the right  
people. It’s important that our colleagues  
reflect the communities in which we operate,  
and feel safe, supported and engaged to  
enable great customer service.77%
colleague engagement score
800
retail colleagues completed the  
‘Pathway’ programme
Highest
participation in colleague  
Your Say survey at 79% 
Top 50
in the Social Mobility Employer Index  
for the second year running 
250
colleagues placed on craft  
apprenticeship schemes
7%
increase in female store managersOur commitments and performance 
Our people are at the forefront  
of everything we do. Recruiting and 
retaining the right people means we deliver our strategic objectives and provide excellent customer service. 
At Morrisons we aim to create long term partnerships by giving 
colleagues the time, qualifications and support needed to grow and develop their skills. 
www.morrisons.jobsOur approach
Left: Our specialist Market Street colleagues offer 
customers great choice and welcome advice on the food we make and sell.24
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Looking after  
 our colleagues
 continued
Working with purpose
We have proposed a new structure in stores with a 
flatter management team of much broader manager 
roles. These roles take end-to-end accountability 
for their department areas including stock, systems, 
shelf-edge and pricing disciplines, as well as 
providing their colleagues with full line manager  
help and support.
While the new structure will mean changes to 
our current management teams, it will, along with 
investment, create over 4,000 new colleague 
roles. This will ensure we have the right hours on 
the shop floor, and more pairs of hands, to serve 
our customers better. In turn this will allow our 
managers to concentrate on helping colleagues to 
identify and remove the barriers they face, solving 
business problems together.Training and development 
During the year, over 250 colleagues were placed 
onto craft apprentice schemes in butchery, bakery 
and fish. This number is in addition to the 45 
colleagues who took up apprenticeships in areas  
as diverse as floristry, abattoirs and food science.
Our degree apprentice and graduate programmes 
continue to play an important role in attracting 
young talent and create a pipeline for management 
roles. This year, over 150 colleagues started on 
these schemes, with one in three joining through 
our ‘Generations’ campaign, which provides 
priority assessment for friends and families of 
existing colleagues.
We also expanded our ‘Morrisons in schools’ 
programme, partnering with almost 400 schools, as 
we work locally to offer opportunities and support 
social mobility.
We were pleased to be recognised as the Top Retail 
Employer for school leavers for the second year 
running in the ‘All About School Leavers’ award 
scheme, and have again been placed in the top 30  
in the Social Mobility Employer Index. Colleague wellbeing
We have a dedicated online wellbeing hub available 
to all colleagues, which includes a variety of tools 
and resources relating to mental, physical, social and 
financial wellbeing which is updated frequently.
We also have a calendar of wellbeing campaigns 
running throughout the year relating to specific 
wellbeing topics; previous campaigns have included 
supporting our colleagues during the menopause, 
stress and mental health awareness and staying 
healthy at work. 
Additionally, we also partner with the Retail Trust, 
our Employee Assistant Programme provider, who 
are available for colleagues to contact them 24/7, 
providing confidential advice and support.Diversity
In 2019, we launched an online Diversity Calendar 
which includes details of a number of events 
throughout the year, aimed at raising awareness and 
educating each other about different cultures and 
communities. We also run a number of diversity 
and inclusion groups across our business including 
Women in Morrisons, Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic 
and LGBT+. These groups are designed to support 
colleagues as well as create opportunities for them  
to get on at Morrisons. 
Women in business
Over the last few years, we have seen our proportion 
of female store managers increase from 7% to around 
20%, female buying managers and senior buying 
managers increase from 44% to 55%, and female 
members of our leadership team increase from 17% 
to 33%.
In our continued support of women in the workplace, 
we launched two new development programmes 
in 2019. Two national ‘Women in Morrisons’ events 
took place across three different regional venues 
in the UK. A total of 593 women colleagues from 
Retail, Manufacturing, Logistics and Hilmore House 
attended. Each event was sponsored by one of 
our senior leaders. The events consisted of Guest 
Speakers as well as developmental activities.It is important that colleagues  
feel valued and that they share  
in the success of the business. 
We closely listen to the feedback  
in this area in our Your Say surveys 
and forums. In 2019, we achieved a 
colleague engagement score of 77%, 
an increase of 1% from 2018/19.Your Say
55%
Female buying managers  
and senior buying managers – 
an increase from 44%
What’s next?
Continued implementation of work life 
balance  initiatives.
Embed proposed new structure in stores.
25
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Sustainable  
 sourcing
Our customers care where their  
food comes from and want to know  
that it has been responsibly and  
sustainably sourced. We work with our suppliers to 
improve the transparency, social 
and environmental performance of 
our supply chain. We encourage and 
promote responsible practices and  
a longer term view.
Our sustainable sourcing policy covers primary production on 
farms we source from both locally and internationally, from inputs 
including feed use on livestock farms to outputs including palm oil 
production for manufactured products in our own brand ranges.
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr/corporate-responsibility
Left: All the fresh fish and seafood on our Market Street 
fishmonger counters is responsibly sourced.New
palm oil commitments launched
New
soya sourcing policy launched
Zero
deforestation by the end of 2025
100 %
of viscose used in Nutmeg clothing will 
be sourced from responsibly managed 
forests and produced using closed loop 
manufacturing
100 %
of the cotton used in Nutmeg clothing 
will be in line with the Better Cotton 
Initiative by 2025Our commitments and performance Our approach26
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
What’s next?
Implement our revised fisheries policy in 2020/21 
including a greater concentration on fish health and welfare measures. 
Work with key suppliers to consider alternative 
sources of feed for fish to reduce the number of wild fish used in production.Sustainable  
  sourcing
 continued
Seafood
Sourcing responsibly caught fish and seafood 
continues to be an important consideration for our customers and a priority for our business. Our commitment to the Sustainable Seafood Coalition codes of conduct underpins our approach which, at its heart, prioritises care for the environment, fish and workers in our supply chains. 
As part of our support for the Ocean Disclosure 
Programme we continue to publish a transparent map and list of all our wild capture sources which breaks down the status of each fishery. Further information on the Ocean Disclosure Project can be found here .
Palm
To strengthen our position on the sourcing of sustainable palm oil used as an ingredient in own brand products, we have revised our current palm oil sourcing policy. 
The new policy now requires: •
 a
ll palm oil and palm oil derivatives used in own 
brand food and drink products to be sourced 
from Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certified segregated supply chains by 2021. 
•
 o
wn brand non-food products to be sourced from 
RSPO certified segregated supply chains by 2023. •
 a
ll own brand products containing palm kernel oil 
and palm kernel oil derivatives to be sourced from RSPO certified segregated supply chains by 2023. 
•
 a
ll palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives 
used in own brand products must be sourced from suppliers that do not contribute to global deforestation. 
We’re also working with third party data analysts, 3Keel to ensure more accurate capture of palm oil and palm kernel oil used as an ingredient in our products. 
Soy
For a number of years we have been members of the Roundtable on Responsible Soy, a multi-stakeholder initiative which promotes the responsible production of soy.
In 2018, we became signatories to the Cerrado 
Manifesto Statement of Support – committing to support efforts to halt forest loss associated with agricultural commodity production and to working with industry, producers, governments and civil society to protect globally important natural landscapes within a framework of good governance and land planning policy.We are working with our own brand suppliers to help them to overcome the challenges associated with soy supply chains and are engaged with The UK Roundtable on Sustainable Soy – a collaboration between the UK Government and industry which helps to address supply chain challenges and supports a commitment to source soya that is legal and cultivated in a way that protects against conversion of forests and valuable native vegetation.
Deforestation 
We are committed to responsible sourcing and look to use supply chain systems which minimise the environmental impact associated with the production of key commodities. 
We’ve launched a zero deforestation policy. 
This means we will not take products from areas which have been deforested or converted after 2018. Whilst effective immediately, we will work with our suppliers to ensure our own brand products are 100% compliant by 2025. 
We will specifically concentrate on areas of higher 
risk for deforestation and conservation, including the Cerrado and Amazon biomes in Brazil and the Gran Chaco in Argentina. 
The deforestation policy will be over-arching and 
include sub-policies on palm oil, soya, beef, timber and paper. Compliance to and reporting of these sub-policies will be shared on our website.
100 %
palm oil used in our own brand food products will be sourced from RSPO segregated supply chains by 2021 In own brand household & beauty 
products 92% of wood and wood derived products were Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified, approved alternatives or recycled. In home & leisure 76% of own brand products were FSC or recycled.Timber
27
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Respecting  
 human rights
At Morrisons we recognise the responsibility  
that we share with our suppliers to buy,  
produce and sell our products in an  
ethical manner. 80
delegates from UK growers trained  
by the Gangmasters and Labour  
Abuse Authority (GLAA) on modern 
slavery awareness
42
strategic supplier reviews conducted
1st
UK supermarket to join the  
Slave Free Alliance initiative
1,000 +
colleagues will receive modern slavery awareness refresher training in 2020
20
training workshops delivered  
to internal colleagues
3
Ethical Trading Initiative Working Groups actively supported Our commitments and performance 
We strongly believe that when human 
rights are respected and ethical standards are consistently delivered, this can improve worker wellbeing, productivity and quality, which benefits both our suppliers and  
our customers. 
We seek to develop long-term, mutually beneficial trading 
relationships with suppliers based on the principle of fair, open and honest dealings at all times.
Our Ethical Trading Code sets out key rights for workers, including 
guidance on wages, working hours, safe and hygienic conditions and discrimination. Compliance with the Code is part of our standard terms of supply and applies to all providers of goods  
and services.
We use our reach and influence to engage our supplier base 
with research and data gathering projects to improve working conditions globally.
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr/ethical-tradingOur approach
Left: We work closely with our manufacturing sites  
to ensure our colleagues are trained to identify modern 
slavery in the workplace.28
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
What’s next?
Publication of our tier one food suppliers.
Signing the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles.Undertake human rights impact assessments  
in our high risk supply chains.Respecting  
human rights
 continued
Collaboration
Collaboration with external partners continues 
to play a key role in our approach to addressing human rights risk in our supply chains. The issues we face are complex and our leverage to influence meaningful change on our own can be limited. 
We added our support to a number of initiatives in 
2019 including the Spain Ethical Trade Forum (SETF), Responsible Recruitment Toolkit, Centre for Child Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility and the Slave-Free Alliance. The SETF in particular presents a great opportunity for Morrisons to work with suppliers, competitors and NGOs on issues in the Spanish agricultural sector and empowers growers to drive improvement. 
With the support of retailers and suppliers, the 
initiative hosts regional grower forums to share resources, training and guidance and promote a common approach to improving labour standards. Morrisons colleagues from the UK and Spain attended their annual conference in Murcia, where growers presented activity undertaken in 2019 including the creation of best practice guidance for accommodation standards and case studies for promoting worker wellbeing and engagement. We intend to build on this relationship further in 2020 and will sit on the initiative’s Governance Group for the next year.Training and development 
Training and awareness continue to be at the forefront of our approach to identifying modern slavery and building our capacity to manage incidents in a way that supports positive outcomes for victims. 
Through our sponsorship of Stronger Together and 
the Responsible Recruitment Toolkit we provide all our suppliers and their labour providers with access to free training, tools and resources, and will continue our support in 2020. 
We also developed a bespoke modern slavery and 
labour exploitation e-learning workshop for all supervisors and managers in our manufacturing and logistics operations, supported by a face-to-face version for all hourly paid colleagues. This year we will focus on promoting awareness of salient human rights risks and the importance of responsible purchasing practice through the creation of a new e-learning training module for Commercial and Technical colleagues. 
We have drafted an external incident management 
toolkit which will be circulated to all of our UK tier one suppliers in the first half of 2020. This document has been designed to share best practice and learnings from our own investigation experience, and reinforces our commitment to the Retailer Protocol for Handling Reported Cases of Modern Slavery in the UK Supply Chain.Transparency 
Our global supply chains are often complex which makes it difficult to obtain detailed information about workers, especially as we progress down to the lowest tiers. We use the Sedex platform to capture information on our suppliers and assess human rights risk, and have been working with other members this year to improve the quality of data gathered. We contributed to the development of a new supplier self assessment questionnaire, launching in 2020, that will enable us to access and report additional site level detail such as gender representation and presence of recognised trade unions. In 2020 we will continue to increase visibility of our supply chains by publishing details of our tier one food suppliers and all growers of Morrisons own brand tea.
Gender equality
Our Ethical Trading team attended the ETI’s Gender Learning Series of training workshops, which are designed to share best practice on identifying and addressing gender based issues in global supply chains. This included a review of capturing effective data, incorporating worker feedback and cultural context, and good practice examples from businesses that have previously conducted successful gender-focused projects. Using the learnings from these sessions, and in light of the recent developments to the Sedex platform,  
we will update our risk assessment to identify  
where we should prioritise activity and allocate resources. To reaffirm our support for women  
in the workplace, Morrisons will also sign the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles and review internal policies to ensure we are operating to  
best practice standards.In January 2020 Morrisons became 
the first supermarket to join the Slave-Free Alliance, a not-for-profit social enterprise operated by the charity Hope for Justice. 
Slave-Free Alliance’s goal is to achieve a 
world free from slavery, with all membership profits reinvested into global work preventing exploitation, rescuing victims, restoring lives and reforming society. Joining the Alliance builds on our existing commitment to address modern slavery risk in our business and supply chains and enables us to access expert advice, resources and guidance to build resilience and improve outcomes for victims. Further detail can be found in our annual Modern Slavery Statement.Slave-Free Alliance
29
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Helping our 
customers to live  
 healthier lives
The UK consumes more sugar,  
saturated fat and salt and less fruit,  
vegetables, fibre and oily fish than  
is recommended. As a food retailer,  
we must provide healthier choices  
to our customers. 40
V Taste vegan products launched
2.6bn
calories removed from  
own brand products
642
tonnes of sugar removed from  
own brand products
72
tonnes of salt removed from  
own brand products
 Our commitments and performance 
We are taking a range of measures  
to help our customers make healthier  
choices, including product reformulation,  
clear nutritional information, healthier 
ranges and strong promotions on fruit and vegetables. 
To help customers make quick and informed decisions about the 
food they buy we have rolled out colour coded nutrition labels to our own brand pre-packed food and drink. In addition, we display calorie information on our customer café menus. 
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr/policy/healthy-eatingOur approach
Left: At Morrisons, 10% of our fresh fruit and 
vegetables are on promotion across our stores at any time – to make it more affordable for our customers to eat healthily.30
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Helping our 
customers to live healthier lives
 continued
Morrisons own brand reformulation
We continued to improve the nutrition profile 
of all Morrisons own brand products, which was underpinned by a comprehensive programme of reformulation to ensure delivery of salt and sugar targets and planning for calorie initiatives. 
In 2019/20, 2.6 billion calories, 642 tonnes of 
sugar and 72 tonnes of salt were removed from 275 Morrisons own branded products.
We have made, or are making, improvements to 
our brands which support customers with healthier eating or specific dietary requirements.
Our ‘Counted’ range, which provides a calorie 
controlled alternative to our customers’ favourite meals, launched in January 2019.
The range focuses on improved quality, new 
products, revised nutritional criteria and clearer  
on pack communication.
We have also extended our ‘Fresh Ideas’ brand, 
providing fresh and nutritious meals, meal components and ‘on the go’ solutions to help  
our customers enjoy eating well.Ready meal relaunch
We relaunched 64 nutrition improvements to Morrisons own brand chilled ready meals covering a number of popular cuisines including traditional, Italian, Chinese and Indian. 
The reformulated products have over  
679 million fewer calories, 9.1 tonnes less salt 
and 58.2 tonnes less sugar, and 37.7 tonnes less saturated fat in comparison to the previous range. Nutrition improvements also resulted in 17 traffic light improvements.
Vegan and plant-based alternatives
At Morrisons, we want to offer our customers a choice of products that suits their lifestyle choices. There is an increasing trend for people to reduce or remove animal products from their daily diets. As a result, we’ve seen a greater demand for vegan and plant-based alternatives in our stores. We now offer 40 V Taste vegan products in our stores. We also continue to roll out vegan logos on eligible own brand products. We have dedicated bays in stores as well as a dedicated vegan section on Morrisons.com where customers can easily locate products and current offers. 
We continue to run various promotions on 
thousands of fresh fruit and vegetables throughout the year through our Price Crunch campaign, reducing prices by an average of 18%.
We are working on growing our V Taste range and 
vegan alternatives in 2020 to broaden our appeal to more customers looking to reduce their meat and dairy consumption.
Free fruit for kids 
All Morrisons stores offer free fruit to customers with children while shopping in our stores, helping them to get one of their five-a-day. Our ‘Counted’ range, which provides 
a calorie controlled alternative to  
our customers’ favourite meals, launched in January 2019.
The range focuses on improved quality,  
new products, revised nutritional criteria  
and clearer on pack communication. 
We have also extended our ‘Fresh Ideas’ 
brand, providing fresh and nutritious meals, meal components and ‘on the go’ solutions to help our customers enjoy eating wellEat smart ‘Counted’ range
What’s next?
Continue to make progress against Public Health 
England’s request to reduce sugar content by 20% where feasible.
Continue to reduce calories, salt and sugar content 
across own brand products.64
we relaunched 64 nutrition 
improvements to Morrisons own brand chilled ready meals covering  
a number of popular cuisines including traditional, Italian,  
Chinese and Indian
31
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
Making a positive 
impact to the communities  
we serve
Morrisons is committed to being a positive  
force in the communities we serve.£4m
raised for charity partner CLIC Sargent 
£3.6 m
grants donated to charities  
through Morrisons Foundation
£357,000
donated in colleague match funding 
£606,000
raised for the Marie Curie  
Great Daffodil Appeal
£1.8 m 
raised for the Poppy Appeal Our commitments and performance 
We continue to source more locally 
produced food, which is good for our customers, the environment and local economies. We support local charities with donations and fundraising opportunities. We share our space with community groups who need  
a place to meet.
We strive to be there for the community in times of need, such 
as when flooding hit parts of south Yorkshire, fires engulfed moorland between Huddersfield and Manchester, or the Toddbrook Reservoir in Whaley Bridge failed. Our stores are at the heart of this activity. Arranging food parcels for people affected, replenishing the emergency services, and throwing open our doors to people who need help.
Community champions lead the way in building relationships with 
local charities and groups. Last year our community champions conducted fact finding tours for local school children, donated products to good causes, and redistributed unsold food to people in need. We continue to increase the hours available to our community champions and add to the number of stores which have community rooms – dedicated spaces for local groups to get together free of charge.
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr/corporate-responsibilityOur approach
Left: Stores across the estate have been offering  
free meeting spaces to community groups’32
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areasSupporting British Food safety Plastics Climate change Food waste Our colleagues Sustainable sourcing Human rights Healthy customers Communities
What’s next?
End the four-year CLIC Sargent partnership  
on a high with £15m raised.
Increase charity match funding to £500,000.Add to the number of community rooms in store.Making a positive 
impact to the communities  
we serve
continued
CLIC Sargent
Morrisons partnership with CLIC Sargent reached 
£11 million at the end of 2019/20 and, following consultation with colleagues, has been extended  
for another year. The final year will fund a new  
CLIC Sargent ‘Home from Home’ in Manchester –  
a free place for families to stay close to the Christie Hospital in the city, which is the largest cancer centre in Europe. 
2019/20 saw growth in colleague engagement and 
increased support from suppliers, with multiple ‘Every Pack Gives Back’ campaigns taking place, as well as the launch of own-brand products benefiting the charity including an ice cream and  
a bag, designed by young cancer patients. 
The partnership has funded over 7,800 grants for 
families facing the unexpected costs of cancer, a ‘home comforts’ scheme at CLIC Sargent Homes and a Nurse Educator programme to help improve young people’s cancer care.World book day
Morrisons Foundation donated 7,300 brand new books to schools nominated by community champions across England, Scotland and Wales. Working in partnership with the National Literacy Trust, the project offered 125,000 pupils the opportunity to enjoy a free bundle of books. 
Amongst the well-known titles, each bundle 
contained a copy of The Story of Tracy Beaker by children’s author Jacqueline Wilson, who was also an ambassador for the partnership. Supported by store colleagues, Jacqueline delivered a new book bundle to Shinewater Primary School in Eastbourne.
Communities invited to share  
our space
Stores across the estate have been offering free meeting spaces to community groups to help them save on the costs of hiring local venues. 
The meet up areas in store cafés are booked 
through the store’s community champion and have seen a number of groups established, from crafting sessions to young parents. In addition, 14 new community rooms were opened during the year  
to offer a dedicated space for groups to meet. The well-used rooms are home to yoga sessions, language classes and charity meetings – and much else besides. New community rooms will be added to the estate throughout the year and can be found on each store’s online page.
Buy one donate one sanitary 
protection
We built on our initiative to donate sanitary 
products to women in period poverty in partnership with Proctor & Gamble. We donated a pad for every pack of own brand sanitary protection bought in store and online. 
The products were distributed to charities and 
community groups supporting women and girls through key partners like The Bread & Butter Thing, and over the course of the year we donated over one million sanitary products.
7,300
books donated as part  
of World Book Day7,800
grants given to families affected by cancerIn 2018 response to customer 
concerns about plastic pollution, we launched a programme where teams of our colleagues volunteered to take part in litter picks on beaches close to their area. 
We continued in 2019, helping to remove 
litter and also raise awareness. We extended the programme to cover other areas including canals to allow more participation.Beach cleans
Our focus areas in detail
Focus Area Commitment 2019/20 update 
Supporting  
British farmers All Morrisons branded fresh shell eggs will be from non-caged hens 
by 2025.Achieved Five years ahead of schedule in shell eggs. Ingredient eggs on track to be compliant by 2025.
Refresh and communicate welfare policies and introduce measures/indicators for welfare issues.Achieved Including refreshed bespoke audit for fresh pork and new standard  
for fresh chicken. Efforts recognised by BBFAW (Business Benchmark  
for Farm Animal Welfare).
Implement reduction policies across all species. Introduce measures and metrics for restricted Critically Important Antibiotics (CIAs), and the elimination of colistin and routine use.Achieved CIAs restricted across all products and prohibited in the fresh pork supply. Colistin not allowed in any a Morrison’s product. Surveys of antibiotic use  
in fresh dairy, beef, lamb, pork, chicken and egg products completed.
Commit to publishing annual report on key health and welfare livestock outcomes on website.Achieved 
Introduce and report on independently audited bespoke Morrisons standards for chicken and pork sectors.Achieved
Commit to regularly updated progress on removal of routine use of antibiotics and removal/reduction of critically important antibiotics for human health in livestock sectors.Achieved See above.
Working with leading academics, commit to delivering practical research projects for broiler, laying hen and pork sectors. Focus: environmental enrichment to benefit livestock welfare.Achieved Reports completed for broilers, laying hens and pork sectors.  
More work to continue in this important area in 2020/21.
NEW  Additional welfare standards for Morrisons branded  
fresh chicken.
Removing, reducing,  
reusing and  
recycling plastic2025, all own brand plastic packaging will be recyclable, reusable  
or compostable.83%  O wn brand primary plastic packaging is recyclable by weight. 
75% 
 W
idely recycled.
8% 
 R
ecycle with bags in larger stores.
2% 
 Ch
eck locally.
15% 
 N
ot currently recycled.
REVISED COMMITMENT  2025, we will reduce own brand primary 
plastic packaging by 50%.9.6% 
 N
et like-for-like reduction in own brand primary plastic packaging  
(2017 baseline).
NEW  2025, 100% of the polyester used in Nutmeg clothing will be 
from recycled sources.
NEW  2025, 100% of plastic packaging used on Nutmeg clothing 
will contain recycled content.NEW  2025, 100% of plastic packaging used on Nutmeg clothing will 
be recyclable.
33
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
1
Top three  
challenge
2
Top three  
challengeOur focus areas in detail
 continued
Focus Area Commitment 2019/20 update 
Tackling  
climate changeReduce operational carbon emissions by 33% 2025, 53% in 2030  
and by 100% in 2040 (2017 baseline). 28% reduction in operational carbon emissions. 
Group greenhouse gas emissions for year ending 31 December 2019
Emission source (Scope 1)2017/18 
Baseline Year2018/19
Prior Year2019/20
Current YearChange vs
baselineChange vs
2018/19
Combustion of fuel and operation  
of facilities
Natural Gas1166,154 156,348 141,572 15% 9%
Haulage2135,029 141,002 139,164 (3%) 1%
Company Cars31,791 1,828 2,140 (19%) (17%)
Fugitive Emissions  
Refrigerant 183,207 130,281 85,039 54% 35%
Energy purchased for Own Use  
(Scope 2)   
Electricity4456,682 362,706 311,954 32% 14%
Total 942,863 792,165 679,869 28% 14%
Intensity Ratio: Tonnes of CO 2e per m2 
GIA 0.356 0.296 0.252 29% 15%
Underlying Energy Use (MWh)
Electricity 1,299,017 1,281,330 1,220,479 6% 5%
Natural Gas 902,207 849,900 770,039 15% 9%
Haulage 508,955 453,654 455,917 10% (0%)
Company Cars 7,308 7,402 2,866 61% 61%
Total 2,717,487 2,592,286 2,449,301 10% 6%
1   Data taken from most recent invoice data which includes subsequent adjustments for rebilling; re-baselining 
of site inclusions/exclusions; and adjustments to the way data is apportioned across the year to ensure 
ongoing consistency.
2  Haulage data includes well to tank emissions which takes into account the extraction and transportation of fuel 
bringing reporting in line with our science based targets.
3  Company car data does not include scope 3 – employee commuting.
4  Transmission and distribution, electricity excludes scope 3. Data taken from most recent invoice data which 
includes subsequent adjustments for rebilling; re-baselining of site inclusions/exclusions; and adjustments to the 
way data is apportioned across the year to ensure ongoing consistency.
NEW   Net zero UK agriculture emissions on own brand farms 2030.
34
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
3
Top three  
challengeOur focus areas in detail
 continued
Focus Area Commitment 2019/20 update 
Ensuring food  
safety, quality  
and provenanceWe will meet FSA targets on campylobacter levels year-on-year. Achieved Continue to monitor campylobacter levels as part of business as usual.
We will build closer working relationships with our growers 
through engagement with our international ‘at source’  
technical team.5,013 international ‘at source’ supplier visits conducted during 2019/20.
Reducing  
food wasteWe will reduce operational food waste by 50% by 2030  
(2016 baseline).Store operational food waste 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
Total food sales (tonnes) 4,097,841 4,041,575 3,911,799 3,986,312
Total food waste (tonnes) 16,141 15,253 14,023 13,665
Food waste as % of sales 0.39% 0.38% 0.36% 0.34%
Surplus food donated (units) 2.3m 1.1m 1.7m 1.8m
For 2019/20, we have also started to record wasted ingredients from products produced in store, which accounted for a further 977 tonnes.
We will double the amount of food redistributed by 2020  
(2016 baseline).Achieved 792 tonnes redistributed in 2019/20. 
We will help to reduce the amount of food and drink our  
customers waste in the home.Working to implement WRAP’s recommendations from 2019 Retailer Survey  
to ensure effective on-pack messaging to help customers reduce food waste in the home. 
35
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
Our focus areas in detail
 continued
Focus Area Commitment 2019/20 update 
Looking after  
our colleaguesWe will continue to invest in My Job training, providing colleagues 
with the skills to do their job properly.Achieved We have continued to invest in digital training tools for colleagues, expanding our colleague platform ‘MyMorri’ to include additional resources.
We will hold a career conversation with every colleague each  
year to establish their career aspirations and how we can support those aspirations.Achieved
We will deliver programmes across the business to enable colleagues to progress in their career. Our internal talent progression programme ‘Pathways’ continued through 2019. This programme is designed to support colleague’s progress between work levels.
We will maximise the potential of our apprenticeship levy to enable colleagues to gain new skills and progress in their career. 150 colleagues enrolled on to degree apprentice and graduates programmes, 250+ colleagues enrolled onto craft apprenticeship schemes. 
Through our career programme, we will continue to progress a diverse range of colleagues reflective of the communities we serve.Women: We have seen our proportion of female store managers increase 
from 7% to around 20%, female buying managers and senior buying managers increase from 44% to 55%, and female members of our leadership team increase from 17% to 33%.
Black Asian Minority Ethnic (BAME): BAME colleague network launched to 
support colleagues with any at-work barriers as well as opportunities  
to progress. 
LGBT+:  LGBT+ network already well established. Morrisons colleagues 
attended various Pride events throughout the year. 
We will continue to increase overall engagement through Your Say 
forums year-on-year.77% colleague engagement score, an increase of 1% from 2018/19.
Your Say survey: Continued improvement scores on ‘My manager helps and supports me’ year-on-year. ‘My Manager helps and supports me’ score increased by 3% from 68% in 2018 to 71% in 2019. 
36
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
Our focus areas in detail
 continued
Focus Area Commitment 2019/20 update 
Sustainable  
sourcingMaintain seafood policies and improvement projects to reduce  
the environmental and social impacts of the seafood we buy.Maintained
Revision and enhancement of seafood sourcing policy. Achieved and communicated to suppliers
All timber and timber derived own brand products must be  
third party certified sustainable. FSC certification now at 92% for household & beauty and 76% for home & leisure
NEW  Own brand food and drink products to be sourced  
from RSPO certified segregated supply chains by 2021.  
Own brand non-food products to be sourced from RSPO 
certified segregated supply chains by 2023.
 A
ll own brand products containing palm kernel oil and palm 
kernel oil derivatives to be sourced from RSPO certified segregated supply chains by 2023. 
 A
ll palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives used in own brand 
products must be sourced from suppliers that do not contribute to global deforestation. 
NEW   100% of the viscose used in Nutmeg clothing will be 
sourced from responsibly managed forests and produced using 
closed loop manufacturing by 2025.
NEW   100% of the cotton used in Nutmeg clothing will be  
in line with the Better Cotton Initiative by 2025.NEW   
 Ze
ro deforestation by the end of 2025.
NEW   Soya sourcing policy including targets to control 
conservation and deforestation.
37
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
Our focus areas in detail
 continued
Focus Area Commitment 2019/20 update 
Respecting  
human rightsIncreased resilience to modern slavery and labour exploitation  
in Morrisons manufacturing and logistics sites.•  C ommissioned the anti-slavery charity Hope for Justice to conduct assessments  
at three of our sites, identifying opportunities to improve our existing processes  
to address modern slavery risk in our business. All corrective action plans have now  
been completed.
•
 B
ecame the first UK supermarket to join the Slave Free Alliance initiative, providing 
additional support during the investigation of suspected cases and improving outcomes 
for victims.
•
 E
ngaged with regional police Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking Teams (MSHTs)  
to support intelligence sharing and tailor action plans.
•
 R
eviewed and updated our internal Modern Slavery Toolkit, including new management 
protocols and the provision of resources in multiple languages. 
•
 C
reated a bespoke e-learning module for supervisors and managers.
Increase visibility and oversight in the lower tiers of key  
supply chains.•
 O
ur Nutmeg business engaged with suppliers to map their tier 2 supply chain and 
identify key sub-contractors. 
•
 C
ompleted an exercise to map all suppliers of ingredients into Morrisons manufacturing 
operations. These suppliers will be required to join Sedex in 2020 and share information required to enable a more detailed risk assessment.
•
 C
reated and trialled an online site reporting tool to be used by Technical Managers 
during farm and site visits to report any human rights or worker welfare concerns.  
The trial will be reviewed during the first half of 2020 ahead of a wider roll out.
Building capacity and supporting development in our  
high risk supply chains.•
 C
ommissioned additional GLAA training workshops on modern slavery awareness and GLAA 
licensing. Over 80 delegates from our UK suppliers and growers attended these sessions.
•
 S
hared Mekong Club guidance on forced labour risk with our suppliers in China.
•
 A
ctively participated in ETI working groups on:
 –I
mproving social dialogue in Latin American agriculture.
 –V
ulnerable migrant workers in Italy.
NEW  Increase transparency in our supply chain by publishing 
details of our tier one food supply chain, including data on gender and access to worker representation.
NEW  Demonstrate our commitment to promoting gender  
equity in our business operations by becoming a signatory  
to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles.NEW  Adopt a proactive approach to due diligence by 
commissioning and undertaking three human rights impact 
assessments in high risk supply chains by 2023.
38
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
Our focus areas in detail
 continued
Focus Area Commitment 2019/20 update 
Helping our  
customers to live  
healthier livesSupporting the following actions of the Government’s Childhood 
Obesity Plan: Public Health England’s reformulation agenda: •
 W
orking towards 20% sugar reduction in ten food categories  
by 2020 (2015 baseline).
•
 W
orking towards 20% sugar reduction in milk based drinks  
by 2021 (2017 baseline).
•
 C
ompliance to salt targets (76 categories).
•
 W
orking towards 20% calorie reduction by 2024.
Nutrition labelling: •
 S
upporting the provision of calorie labelling in the  
out-of-home setting.
•
 S
upporting transparent front of pack nutrition labelling  
on pre-packed food and drink.Total reformulation: 2.6bn calories, 642 tonnes sugar and 71.8 tonnes of salt were removed from own brand products. 
Raise at least £2.5m each year for charity partner CLIC Sargent. £4m raised in 2019/20.
•
 S
upport important campaigns including the Poppy Appeal,  
Children In Need, Marie Curie Daffodil Appeal and Walking  
With The Wounded.£600,000 raised for the Daffodil Appeal.£1.8m raised for the Poppy Appeal.£77,000 raised for Children In Need.
•
 R
espond quickly to opportunities to support other causes close 
to the hearts of our colleagues and customers.£60,000 raised for the Disasters Emergency Committee Cyclone Idai Appeal.
Continue to make a positive differences in local communities  
by donating grant awards through The Morrisons Foundation.£3.6m donated to hundreds of charities across England, Scotland and Wales.
Support the causes our colleagues care about by donating £250,000+ in match funding to the charities closest to their hearts through The Morrisons Foundation.£357,000 in match funding.
Use the positive sentiment generated by grant donations  
to engage with the media and strengthen relationships with  
local communities.441 pieces of positive news coverage relating to Morrisons Foundation donations.
39
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
40
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
The Board of Directors  
Wm Morrison Supermarkets 
PLC (“Morrisons”) engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below and set out in Morrisons’ Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20 for the 52 weeks ended  
2 February 2020.Our conclusion
Based on the procedures we have performed and the 
evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information for the 52 weeks ended 2 February 2020 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria.
This conclusion is to be read in the context of what 
we say in the remainder of our report.
Selected Information
The scope of our work was limited to assurance over the information on pages 42 to 45 entitled ‘KPIs Assured and Basis of Preparation’ in Morrisons’ Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20 (the “Selected Information”).
The Selected Information and the Reporting Criteria 
against which it was assessed are summarised in the table below. Our assurance does not extend to information in respect of earlier periods or to any other information included in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20.
Selected Information Reporting Criteria 
Selected information consists of the 4 KPIs on pages 42 to 45 entitled ‘KPIs Assured and Basisof Preparation’ of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20.The reporting criteria as included on pages 42 to 45 entitled ‘KPIs Assured and Basis of Preparation’ of the Corporate Responsibility Report2019/20.Professional standards applied and 
level of assurance
We performed a limited assurance engagement in 
accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ and, in respect of the greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance engagements on greenhouse gas statements’, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks.
Our Independence and Quality Control
We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) Code of Ethics, which is at least as demanding as the IESBA Code Parts A and B and which includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
We apply International Standard on Quality Control 
(UK) 1 and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Our work was carried out by an independent 
team with experience in sustainability reporting and assurance.Understanding reporting and 
measurement methodologies
The Selected Information needs to be read and 
understood together with the Reporting Criteria, which Morrisons is solely responsible for selecting and applying. The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities and over time. The Reporting Criteria used for the reporting of the Selected Information are as at 2 February 2020.Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors  
of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC41
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
Work done
We are required to plan and perform our work in 
order to consider the risk of material misstatement  
of the Selected Information. In doing so, we:
•
 m
ade enquiries of Morrisons’ management, 
including the Corporate Responsibility (CR) team 
and those with responsibility for CR management and CR reporting;
•
 ob
tained an understanding of the design and 
operation of the controls in place in relation to the collation and reporting of the selected information, including controls over third party information (where applicable);
•
 m
ade enquiries of relevant company management, 
personnel and third parties;
•
 c
onsidered the significant estimates and 
judgements made by management in the preparation of the selected information;
•
 p
erformed limited substantive testing on a 
selective basis of the Selected Information at corporate head office and in relation to a number of sites to check that data had been appropriately measured, recorded, collated and reported; and
•
 c
onsidered the disclosure and presentation of the 
Selected Information.Morrisons’ responsibilities
The Directors of Morrisons are responsible for:
•
 d
esigning, implementing and maintaining internal 
controls over information relevant to the 
preparation of the Selected Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
•
 e
stablishing objective Reporting Criteria for 
preparing the Selected Information;
•
 m
easuring and reporting the Selected Information 
based on the Reporting Criteria; and
•
 t
he content of the Corporate Responsibility  
Report 2019/20.
Our responsibilities
We are responsible for:
•
 p
lanning and performing the engagement to obtain 
limited assurance about whether the Selected 
Information is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
•
 f
orming an independent conclusion, based on the 
procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained; and
•
 r
eporting our conclusion to the Directors 
of Morrisons.This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for the Board of Directors of Morrisons in accordance with the agreement between us, to assist the Directors in reporting Morrisons’ corporate responsibility performance and activities. We permit this report to be disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20 for the 52 weeks ended 2 February 2020, to assist the Directors in responding to their governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent assurance report in connection with the Selected Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Board of Directors and Morrisons’ for our work or this report except where terms are expressly agreed between us in writing.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
Chartered Accountants  
London
11 May 2020Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors  
of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
 continued42
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
KPI Basis of Preparation
1. 
 G
reenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions 
of 679,869 t CO 2e, comprised 
of CO 2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
and SF6 emissions, during the 
calendar year of 2019.
 Of which  
Scope 1 GHG emissions of 367,915 t CO 2e 
 Scope 2 GHG emissions of 311,954 t CO 2e•
 S
cope 1 emissions relate to the combustion of natural gas (kWh), transport fuel (litres), diesel (litres) and fugitive emissions resulting from the use of refrigeration and air 
conditioning equipment (kilograms). 
•
 S
cope 2 emissions relate to purchased electricity (kWh). 
•
 T
he organisational boundary of the 2019/20 footprint is aligned with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol ‘Operational Control’ approach under which a company 
accounts for 100% of emissions from operations over which it or one of its subsidiaries has operational control. 
•
 O
perational control is defined as any operation over which the Group has the full authority to introduce and implement its operating policies.
•
 W
here subsidiaries, sites or joint ventures are deemed not to be under operational control of the Group or are not material to the Group, their energy and fuel usage have 
not been included within the scope of the GHG emissions reported.
•  CO 2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, and SF6 emissions are measured. NF3 emissions are not included in the organisational boundary. 
•
 A
ccuvio is the third-party software provider which has been used to consolidate the carbon data and apply emissions factors. It has been used to calculate the final Scope 
1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions.
•
 CO 2e emissions for the Group have been determined on the basis of measured or estimated energy and fuel use, multiplied by the relevant emission factors from the 
Calculated GHG emissions consisting of the combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions within the organisational boundaries of the Group. The source of the emissions 
factors is from the following sources:
 –h
ttps://www.gov.uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2019
 –h
ttps://www.unenvironment.org/ozonaction/gwp-odp-calculator
 –h
ttps://www.aib-net.org/sites/default/files/assets/facts/residual-mix/2018/AIB_2018_Residual_Mix_Results_v1_1.pdf
 –h
ttps://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/02/ar4-wg1-chapter2-1.pdf
 –h
ttps://www.gov.uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2019
•
 E
mission sources included in the scope of GHG emissions reported which are deemed material to the Group include: 
 –E
lectricity consumption. 
 –G
as consumption. 
 –R
efrigeration – static sites and haulage. 
 –T
ransportation (vehicles under operational control of the Group) – haulage, staff travel, business miles and delivery. 
Emission sources not included in the scope of GHG emissions reported, as they are not deemed material to Group, include the Hong Kong office only.KPIs assured and Basis of Preparation
The following KPIs have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended 2 February 2020.43
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
KPI Basis of Preparation
1. 
 G
reenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions 
of 679,869 t CO 2e, comprised 
of CO 2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
and SF6 emissions, during the 
calendar year of 2019.
 Of which  
Scope 1 GHG emissions of 367,915 t CO 2e 
 Scope 2 GHG emissions of 311,954 t CO 2e
continuedThe following assumptions have been made when calculating the following source of emissions:
Electricity
•
 W
here actual electricity use for any operation or period of time is not available, an estimate of usage is made based upon the best available information (i.e. applying an 
average across a similar period). 
Transportation – Haulage•
 A
ll haulage data is attributable to Morrisons distribution activities.
•
 K
ilometre per litre conversion is based on Morrisons own fleet and applied to contractors where litre reports are not available.
Refrigerants• Refrigerants data is based on data obtained from the third-party supplier.
Natural Gas•
 G
as consumption has been based on invoiced amounts, but where data for a period of time is not available, an estimate of usage is made based upon the best available 
information (i.e. applying an average across a similar period).
Transportation – Business Miles•
 B
usiness mileage is obtained from the third-party car leasing company based on actual mileage claims submitted by employees.
•
 K
ilometre per litre conversion is based on an ‘unknown car’ average applied by Accuvio to the inputted business mileage. 
•
 T
he emissions from business miles excludes air and rail travel. 
AdjustmentsTo ensure all asset disposals and acquisitions, relevant to scope 1 and 2 emissions have been taken into account, the energy team conduct an annual review of the Morrisons estate, at the time of compiling the annual carbon footprint, in partnership with the Morrisons estate management team. If an asset disposal or acquisition has an effect on a prior year’s consumption an adjustment is made accordingly.KPIs assured and Basis of Preparation
continued44
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
KPI Basis of Preparation
2. 
 1
4,642 tonnes of operational 
retail food wasted excluding 
unsold food items donated in 2019/20 financial year.Data represents food and drink wasted in all 492 stores during 2019/20 financial year.
Material type
The scope of the calculation includes both edible and inedible parts, e.g. avocado including stone and skin.
Data sources
Food and drink wasted via handheld terminals (HHT) is recorded as either ‘waste – out of date’ (option 1 on HHT) or ‘waste – damaged’ (option 2 on HHT). This wastage data is provided to Valpak from our Business Intelligence data and IT teams for analysis. Valpak is our third party data analyst who apply weights to wasted products.
Calculations
Valpak analyse each individual product line using the product description to identify the product weight. Morrisons technical systems, Morrisons Create and Morrisons Recipe, were used to validate and where necessary correct these product weights. For loose produce sold by weight, the wasted amount recorded is the sales value.  
To calculate food waste weight for these products, the March 2020 retail price has been used, rather than price as at the time the product was wasted. 
Destinations
A proportion of surplus food and drink that is wasted via HHTs is used in colleague canteens and in colleague sales. Food waste is placed in waste bins at the back of stores and is collected by waste contractors to go to anaerobic digestion, composting, controlled combustion and, as a last resort, landfill. For a breakdown of store waste collected at the back of stores and its recycling, please refer to page 21 of this Report.
Categories included:
•
 A
mbient 
•
 F
resh
ExclusionsA proportion of food and drink wasted in cafés, staff canteens and third-party franchises are excluded in this calculation. Surplus food that has been donated to local community groups or sold through the “Too Good to Go” app has also been excluded. 
3.  8 2.85% of Morrisons own-brand 
primary plastic packaging is 
recyclable, being products that have been sold in 492 stores and online for the 2019 calendar year and wholesale during 2019/20 financial year.• R ecyclability is calculated by dividing the tonnes of recyclable tonnes of own-brand primary plastic packaging to calculate a percentage by total tonnes of own-brand 
primary plastic packaging.
•
 ‘
Primary packaging’ is defined as packaging placed on to the market that a Morrisons customer will take home, including packaging relating to products produced in store.
•
 ‘
Recyclable’ is defined by the UK On-Pack Recycling Label scheme as:
 –‘
Widely recycled’ - Used when 75% or more of local authorities have kerbside collection facilities for that packaging type in their area; or
 –‘
Recycle with bags at larger stores’ – For Polyethylene Wrap/Film/Bags.
 –R
ecyclability is calculated by multiplying sales volumes of all own-brand products with primary plastic packaging by the packaging weight for all products classified as 
‘widely recycled’ or ‘recycle with bags at larger stores’. 
•
 W
here the exact material of an element of plastic packaging was not known, recyclability has been allocated using the known proportions of recyclability for that type  
of packaging.
•
 W
here data over the colour of a packaging layer is not available, an assumption is made that the colour is that of the most common recyclability for that type and  
material composition.KPIs assured and Basis of Preparation
continued45
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Corporate Responsibility Report 2019/20Contents Performance summary Assurance Strategy and approach Our focus areas
KPIs assured and Basis of Preparation
continued
KPI Basis of Preparation
4. 
 5
0,173 tonnes of Morrisons 
own-brand primary plastic 
packaging generated in 2019 calendar year. This is a reduction of 9.6% from the baseline 2017 calendar year. • D ata represents all Morrisons own-brand primary plastic packaging sold through till sales at all 492 stores and online for the 2019 calendar year and wholesale sales volumes 
during 2019/20 financial year. This tonnage is compared as a percentage reduction from the tonnage of primary, own-brand plastic packaging from the 2017 calendar year, 
adjusted to account for changes in own-brand sales volumes between the two periods. 
•
 ‘
Primary packaging’ is defined as packaging placed on to the market that a Morrisons customer will take home, including packaging relating to products produced in store.
•
 D
ata is recorded in the RMS system as part of sales volumes recorded. Breakdown data is provided to our third-party data analysts, Valpak, from our Business Intelligence 
data and IT teams for analysis.
•
 V
alpak analyse each individual product line. The weight of the plastic packaging is based on the calculations they hold for own brand packaging data. This weight is 
multiplied by the sales volumes for each product.
Management Statement
The Directors of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC are and shall be responsible for this Management Statement and for reporting the four KPIs as at 2 February 2020 in accordance with the reporting criteria set out on pages 42-45. In doing so we have:
•
 d
esigned, implemented and maintained internal controls and processes over information relevant to the measurement and preparation of the four KPIs that is free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
•
 e
stablished objective reporting criteria for measuring and preparing the four KPIs and applied them consistently;
•
 p
resented information, including the criteria, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; and
•
 m
easured and reported the 4 KPIs based on the reporting criteria.  
Steven Butts  
Head of Corporate Responsibility  
On behalf of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC 11 May 2020Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
Hilmore House, Gain Lane 
Bradford BD3 7DL
Telephone: 0845 611 5000
Visit our website: 
www.morrisons-corporate.com/cr
Our 2019/20 Annual Report and  
Financial Statements can be found at:  
www.morrisons-corporate.comDesigned and produced by  
Radley Yeldar.  ry.com