SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT 
REPORTOn the cover
As Australia’s leading producer of LNG, Woodside is pleased 
to be working with the mining and shipping industries to 
explore the potential for LNG as fuel for bulk carriers on the 
"Green Corridor" trade routes between Australia and China. This demonstrates our commitment to innovation and creating 
shared value where we are active globally.
In 2017, Woodside took delivery of the first LNG-fuelled marine 
support vessel in the southern hemisphere, the Siem Thiima. 
We are now assessing the viability of further adoption of LNG fuelling of our vessels. LNG has carbon emissions up to 25% 
lower than diesel and 30% lower than heavy fuel oil and emits 
almost no sulfur or particulates.
Our Sustainable Development Report communicates non-financial disclosures relating to environment, social and 
governance performance. Target audience varies across 
 
our eight stakeholder groups as identified on pages 10–11.
Our Annual Report 2017
Our Annual Report 2017 is a summary of Woodside’s 
operations, activities and financial position as at 31 December 
2017. Copies of the Annual Report 2017 are available on request 
or from our website.
Additional information
In this report, we have indicated where additional information  
is available online and in other sections of this report like this:
Refer to pages 68–69 for definitions, key terms and units of measurement.
Refer to Woodside’s website for more information (woodside.com.au).
Report feedback
To help us improve our report, we welcome your feedback.
Email: communities@woodside.com.au
We are working with Green ReportsTM on 
an initiative ensuring that communications 
minimise environmental impact and  
create a more sustainable future for  
the community.
To access video links:
1. Download QR code application.
2. Scan QR code.
Or visit Woodside Energy’s YouTube channel.
VIDEO LINKS
Click or scan for more videos about 
Our Business or visit Woodside 
Energy’s YouTube channel. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  1
As an Australian company with a global portfolio, 
we are proud of the contribution we make to 
sustainability in the communities where we  
operate and in the markets that we supply.
Gas producers have a crucial role to play as the world strives 
to reduce emissions while extending energy security. The LNG 
that Woodside supplies into Asian markets makes a significant 
contribution to that task, providing a cleaner burning energy source.
In northern Australia, we are leading the way by building a truck-loading facility to supply LNG as a cleaner alternative fuel to 
diesel for land and sea transport and industrial power generation.
Our own vessels are part of a broader transition underway as 
the shipping industry complies with international regulations 
mandating cleaner fuels. In 2017, we launched the Siem Thiima, 
the first LNG-fuelled marine support vessel in the southern hemisphere, and we continue to work with major mining and 
shipping companies on converting busy trade routes to Asia 
into an LNG-fuelled “Green Corridor”.
We are also paying attention to the carbon resilience of our 
portfolio, evaluating all future projects against a range of 
outlooks and considering opportunities to integrate  renewables at our assets. 
In a world-first for an offshore oil and gas platform, we are 
installing a 1MWH battery on Goodwyn A, to introduce new 
efficiencies and reduce emissions.
Our flared gas intensity has reduced in recent years but it was 
disappointing that we did not achieve our targeted reduction in 
2017. Equipment repairs are underway to get us back on track.
We value our staff and it was pleasing that our biennial 
employee survey confirmed they are highly engaged and 
take pride in our commitment to sustainability. Engagement 
levels now exceed the oil and gas industry average and are approaching global top-performing companies.In our operations, our focus on health and safety is paramount. 
In 2017, we achieved a 21% reduction in the total recordable 
injury rate as we introduced the concept of a Perfect HSE  
Day to ensure staff and contractors focus on safety.
Our record of engaging respectfully with the communities 
where we operate is well established in Australia and we bring this same approach to other countries where we are now active, 
including Myanmar and Senegal.
These new opportunities in our business also bring added 
responsibility and complexity. We have the right people  
and processes to ensure the Woodside team can manage  these challenges and uphold our values, regardless of where  they are working.
The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) ranked Woodside 
in the top 3% of companies in the sector and our commitment 
to education was recognised by an Excellence Award from the 
World Petroleum Congress. In 2017, Woodside was also proud to win the Environment and Safety Excellence Awards from the 
Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association.
This report outlines how we continue to live up to the principles 
we have long espoused: operating with transparency and 
integrity, fostering our organisation and culture, building a 
resilient business, operating responsibly and creating shared value through relationships with our stakeholders. 
I would like to thank our staff for their commitment and Ann 
Pickard and the Sustainability Committee for their rigorous and 
dedicated approach. I also extend my gratitude to all those in 
our communities who have worked closely with Woodside and continue to do so.
Peter Coleman
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director 8 March 2018MESSAGE  
FROM  
OUR CEO
2  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 20172 Woodside Petroleum Ltd | Sustainable Development Report 2017
ABOUT  
WOODSIDE 
Woodside is Australia’s largest 
independent oil and gas 
company with a global portfolio, 
recognised for our world-class capabilities – as an explorer, 
a developer, a producer and a 
supplier of energy. 
We have a clear strategy to deliver 
superior shareholder returns across three distinct time horizons. These 
horizons are characterised by cash 
generation from 2017, unlocking  value from 2022, and repeating  our successes from 2027.
Our global exploration portfolio is 
balanced across established, emerging and frontier provinces covering 
Australia and the Asia-Pacific region, 
the Atlantic margins and sub-Saharan Africa. Currently, we are focused on drilling to grow our resource volumes. 
We have significant equity interests in 
high-quality development opportunities in Australia (Wheatstone, Scarborough 
and Browse), Senegal (SNE), Myanmar 
and North America (Kitimat), and 
are pursuing new concepts and technology to enable cost-effective commercialisation of these resources. Our producing assets include the landmark North West Shelf (NWS) Project, Pluto LNG and non-operated Wheatstone LNG. Our operated assets are renowned for their safety, 
reliability and efficiency. As Australia’s 
leading LNG operator, we produced 7% of global LNG supply, and operate a fleet of floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) facilities. 
We continue to expand our capabilities in marketing, trading and shipping and have enduring 
relationships that span more than 
25 years with foundation customers throughout the Asia-Pacific region.
Woodside continues to promote the 
use of LNG as a low-emissions and 
economically viable alternative fuel. 
Technology and innovation are essential to our long-term sustainability. We are working to 
bring down costs and find solutions 
to our business challenges. Today we are pioneering remote support 
and the application of artificial intelligence, embedding advanced analytics across our operations 
and making improvements in 
additive manufacturing. Woodside demonstrates strong safety and environmental performance in all its operations. We are committed 
to upholding our values of integrity, 
respect, working sustainably, discipline, excellence and working together. Our success is driven by our people, and we aim to attract, develop and retain a 
diverse, high-performing workforce. 
We recognise that long-term, 
meaningful relationships with communities are fundamental to 
maintaining our licence to operate. 
We help create stronger communities through programs that improve knowledge, build resilience and create shared opportunities. 
Our proven track record and distinctive capabilities are underpinned by more than 60 years of experience, making us 
a partner of choice.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  3
CONTENTS
Overview
Message from our CEO 1
About Woodside  2
Message from our Sustainability Committee Chair  4
Performance highlights 5
Our areas of activity 6
Woodside value chain  8
Understanding our stakeholders 10
Our approach to sustainability  12
Governance 14
Materiality 15
Materiality matrix 16
Sustainability targets  17
Operating with transparency and integrity
Business ethics 20
Transparency, anti-bribery and corruption  21
Payment transparency 22
Respecting human rights 24
Regulatory compliance 26
Fostering the organisation and culture 
People 28
Leadership  29
Inclusion and diversity 30
Capability 32
Building a resilient business 
Economic performance 34
World energy outlook 35
Climate change 36
Applying technology and innovation 40Operating responsibly
Major incident prevention  42
Major incident response  44
Health and safety performance  46
Managing our environmental impacts 48
Engaging communities and managing impacts 50
Creating shared value 
Indigenous engagement  54
Supply chain 56
Social investment  58
Partnerships 60
Sustainable development goals 62
Sustainability performance 
Our performance 64
Data tables  65
Notes and definitions 68
Glossary 69EY assurance statement 70
GRI and IPIECA indexes 71
About this report  724  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017Our world changes fast and we need to be prepared to change with it.
Since the Sustainability Committee formed a decade ago, the 
company’s approach has matured significantly. We are pleased to 
share news of that progress as we meet growing expectations for 
businesses to be more accountable and transparent.
Sustainability is at the core of Woodside’s corporate culture and factored into daily decision making at all levels of the business. 
It is the responsibility of the Committee to focus on the areas of 
greatest significance to our shareholders and community and ensure that there are appropriate governance structures  
to monitor and manage associated risks. 
Climate change is viewed by Woodside’s stakeholders as a significant sustainability issue facing the company. It was a priority 
for the Sustainability Committee during our four meetings in 2017, 
along with major incident prevention and response, and health and safety performance.
The Committee monitors climate change policy developments and reviews Woodside’s initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions. We are working with the Board to ensure Directors 
have the skills and knowledge to factor climate change issues into investment decisions. 
Regarding safety, the Committee has been impressed by the “perfect day” concept, which Woodside introduced in 2017 to 
drive the right behaviour by promoting daily health and safety 
conversations. It is crucial that each of our employees and contractors goes home safe at the end of each day.
We insist on robust governance to ensure our facilities and those 
operated on our behalf are managed appropriately. We recognise our industry must be ready for unlikely events that can damage 
the environment, community and company, so we ensure there is 
a company-wide focus on maintaining and constantly improving emergency preparedness and response capabilities. 
During 2017, the Committee has reviewed the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), identifying five goals to which Woodside can make a meaningful contribution. These five 
goals align closely with our own values: affordable and clean energy; 
industry, innovation and infrastructure; climate action; life below water; and partnerships for the goals.
We approved a human rights policy in 2017 and, in line with Woodside’s values, we are committed to respecting human 
rights in our operations and in communities where we operate. 
The strengthening of local content in locations where we operate  
is also on our agenda, in recognition of the significance of employment and contracting opportunities to sustainable 
community development in Australia and internationally.Finally, I want to thank David McEvoy for chairing the committee over the past decade, prior to his retirement at the 2017 Annual General Meeting. During this time, sustainability 
has been embedded in Woodside’s processes. As a committee, 
we will support the company’s ongoing commitment to sustainability and will monitor emerging issues so we can 
understand the global challenges ahead. In a fast-changing 
world, we need to be aware, engaged and ready to act.
Ann Pickard
Chair of the Committee 8 March 2018
ANN PICKARD
 MELINDA CILENTO
CHRISTOPHER HAYNES, OBE
 IAN MACFARLANE
SARAH RYAN
 LARRY ARCHIBALD
MESSAGE FROM 
OUR SUSTAINABILITY 
COMMITTEE CHAIR 
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  5
PERFORMANCE 
HIGHLIGHTS
AWARDS
 +Received Silver Class award for second consecutive year and ranked 
in the top 3% of our Dow Jones Sustainability Index sector
 +Received the Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association (APPEA) Safety and Environment Excellence awards
 +Awarded World Petroleum Council Excellence Award for STEM outreach program
 +State Arts and Culture Partnership Honours for outstanding  
long-term partnerships
21% decrease in total  
recordable injury rate
PERSONAL 
SAFETY
PROCESS SAFETY
 No Tier 1 or Tier 2  
process safety events
Exceeded our targets for Indigenous employment  
and business contracts
INDIGENOUS 
OUTCOMES
HUMAN  RIGHTS 
 Introduced Board-approved  
policy to respect Human Rights
Launched our first LNG-fuelled marine support 
vessel Siem Thiima
NEW 
MARKETS
6  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017GLOBAL
GABON
PERUUSA
PORT ARTHUR LNGCANADA 
KITIMAT LNG
SENEGALMYANMAR
SUNRISE LNGSingapore*Tokyo*Bejing*
Seoul*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALANDIRELAND
MOROCCO
Gas Producing assetsProduct type Phase
Appraisal and exploration Gas or oilProjects and developments OilOUR AREAS  
OF ACTIVITY
*Marketing office Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  7
Asset facts
1. For further information on Woodside’s Australian titles, please refer to the titles register website (neats.nopta.gov.au).
2. The transaction remains subject to satisfaction of conditions precedent.PRODUCING FACILITIES
Australia International
North West 
ShelfKarratha Gas 
PlantNorth Rankin ComplexGoodwyn A PlatformAngel PlatformCanada Kitimat LNG
Role Operator Operator Operator Operator Role Non-operator
Equity 16.67% 16.67% 16.67% 16.67% Equity 50%
Product LNG, pipeline natural gas, condensate and LPGLNG, pipeline natural gas, condensate and LPGLNG, pipeline natural gas, condensate and LPGLNG, pipeline natural gas, condensate and LPGProduct Pipeline natural gas
Pluto LNG Pluto LNG PlatformPluto LNG PlantAustralia Oil Ngujima-Yin FPSONganhurra FPSOOkha FPSO Wheatstone LNG
Role Operator Operator Role Operator Operator Operator Non-operator
Equity 90% 90% Equity 60% 60% 33.33% 13%
Product LNG and condensateLNG and condensateProduct Oil Oil Condensate and oilLNG, pipeline natural gas  and condensate
PROJECTS
Australia
Greater Enfield Project Wheatstone LNG Julimar-Brunello Project-Phase 2 Greater Western Flank Phase 2
Role Operator Non-operator Operator Operator
Equity 60% 13% 65% 16.67%
Product Oil LNG, pipeline natural gas and condensateLNG, pipeline natural gas and condensateLNG, pipeline natural gas and condensate
DEVELOPMENTS
Australia International
Scarborough/ ThebeBrowse Sunrise LNG USA Port Arthur LNGCanada Kitimat LNG Senegal SNE-Phase 1
Role Operator and non-operatorOperator Operator Role Non-operator Role Non-operator Role Development Lead
Equity 25%–50% 30.60% 33.44% Equity Project Development AgreementEquity 50% Equity 35%
EXPLORATION
Australia and Asia-Pacific
Australia Various titles1New Zealand PEP-55794 Myanmar AD-5 and A-7 AD-7 and A-6 AD-2 and A-4 AD-1, AD-6 and AD-8
Role Operator and non-operatorRole Operator Role Operator Joint operator Non-operator Joint operator
Equity Various equitiesEquity 70% Equity 55% and 45% 40% 45% 50%
Product Oil or gas prone basinProduct Oil or gas prone basinProduct Gas prone basinGas prone basinGas prone basinGas prone basin
Atlantic margins
Senegal Rufisque, Sangomar and Sangomar DeepMorocco Rabat Deep I-VIIreland FEL 3/14, 5/13, 5/14 and LO 16/14
Role Non-operator Role Non-operator Role Operator
Equity 35% Equity 25% Equity 60%–90%
Product Oil prone basin Product Oil prone basin Product Oil or gas prone basin
Sub-Saharan Africa Latin America
Gabon Doukou Dak (F15), Luna Muetse (E13), Diaba Block and Likuale (F14)
2Peru Block 108
Role Non-operator Role Non-operator
Equity 21.25%–40% Equity 35%
Product Oil prone basin Product Oil prone basin8  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017WOODSIDE  
VALUE CHAIN We have long recognised that our activities have 
environmental, social and economic impacts.
Our value chain illustrates the key components  
of our business.
ACQUIRE AND EXPLORE
By maintaining a disciplined approach to managing risk 
and increasing shareholder value, we seek to grow our 
portfolio through global exploration and asset acquisitions. 
At the completion of this phase, the asset moves into the development phase.
OPERATE
At the completion of construction, the asset moves into its operation phase. We have over 30 years’ experience, 
characterised by strong safety and environmental performance, 
operating some of the world’s premier oil and gas facilities.
DECOMMISSION AND DIVEST
When we look towards end of field-life of our oil and gas assets, we aim to bring forward optimal value wherever we can, 
including divestment of late-life assets. We work together with 
our stakeholders to ensure that the most sustainable options are considered at various stages to minimise environmental, social and 
economic impacts.DEVELOP
We work closely with our customers, fellow joint venture 
participants, suppliers, governments and communities to realise opportunities across the development life cycle.  
After resources are confirmed and approved, the  
development moves into project execution.
MARKET
Our valuable long-term customer relationships and our track record of safe and reliable delivery make us a leading 
supplier of energy to the Asia-Pacific region and the Australian 
domestic gas market. We have world-class capabilities across marketing and trading.
Refer to pages 26–27 of the Annual Report 2017 for more information on activities Woodside has conducted across the value chain during 2017.Image courtesy of Chevron Australia. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  9
TWO PRODUCTS, MANY USES
In 2017, our LNG was delivered to the following markets:
JAPAN 
(~80 %)KOREA 
(~10 %)CHINA 
(~7 %)OTHER 
(~3 %)
Our share of the total gas supplied
TO THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN MARKET IN 2017 WAS 9.5%
which mostly went to power, mining and industrial users
1. US Energy Information Administration (2017) – International Energy Outlook.
2. J.J.Hess, D.Bednarz, J.Y.Bae, and J.Pierce, 2011. Petroleum and health care: Evaluating and managing health care’s vulnerability to petroleum supply shift. American Journal 
of Public Health 101 (9): 1568–1579.
3. Deloitte Access Economics (2016) – Analysis for Gas Vision 2050.Our products play a vital role in day-to-day lives.
DID YOU KNOW
Oil, which provides 33% of the 
world’s energy, is primarily used in 
transportation. Less well known is its 
use in the production of synthetic and 
chemical materials1.Gas, which currently provides 24% of the 
world’s energy, will play an increasing role in 
a lower carbon future. This shift will be seen 
in power generation, industrial processes and 
marine and onshore transportation1.GAS OIL
About 3% of global oil production  
is used in the manufacture  
of pharmaceuticals2.In Western Australia, 75% of homes are 
connected to natural gas. Australia-wide,  
the average is 49%3 .
10  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017UNDERSTANDING  
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
STAKEHOLDER AND KEY INTERESTS COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES TOP SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES
CUSTOMERS
Reliability and safety of supply, 
product quality, cost and delivery. Maintain strong relationships based  on mutual understanding and  open communication.Regular engagements to manage commercial and operational aspects  of liquids delivery and Annual Delivery Plan (ADP) for LNG delivery +Energy security 
 + Major incident prevention 
 + Government decision impactsIn-country representatives
Reciprocal staff exchanges to promote understanding of  
respective businesses
Regular site visits to build understanding of respective businessesProactive engagement to understand short- and long-term needs
JOINT VENTURE  
PARTICIPANTS
Reliability and safety of supply, 
product quality, cost and delivery. Maintain strong relationships 
 
based on mutual understanding and open communication, and non-operator governance.Regular meetings with joint venture boards and committees  +Climate change 
 +Major incident prevention 
 +Major incident response 
 +Regulatory compliance 
 + Anti-bribery and corruptionParticipation in business reviews and audits
Assurance programsRegular operations overviewsRegular site visitsRegular collaborative participation in government meetings  
and industry events
INVESTORS AND  
FINANCE PROVIDERS
Delivery of superior shareholder returns and continuous improvement in total shareholder return, mitigation and management of financial and non-financial risks and high-quality corporate governance.Investor briefings  +Climate change 
 +Health and safety 
 +Human rights 
 +Global readiness 
 +Non-operator managementFull-year and half-year results briefings
Regular meetings with financiers, institutional shareholders  
and investor representatives
Annual General MeetingAustralian Securities Exchange (ASX) announcements
Environmental, social and governance briefings with Australian  
institutional investorsTo protect our reputation, grow shareholder returns, understand our impacts and support the social and 
economic prosperity of the communities where we operate, Woodside applies a consistent approach to 
stakeholder engagement.
Maintaining consistent and productive relationships with 
our stakeholder groups is a key priority for our business. We 
know that fostering these relationships and addressing any 
stakeholder issues are fundamental to protecting our reputation, our investment proposition, and our ability to understand and 
support the communities and environments in which we operate.
Our External Stakeholder Engagement Procedure outlines 
best practice guidelines for stakeholder engagement relating 
to our activities. The procedure encourages transparent communications and 
feedback with our stakeholder groups.
The table below identifies our eight stakeholder groups  
across the business, their key interests and concerns, and 
examples of how we engage with them. 
To assist in the compilation of this report, we consulted 
representatives from each stakeholder group and identified  
issues of material concern as part of the process outlined  
on pages 15–16. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  11STAKEHOLDER AND KEY INTERESTS COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES TOP SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES
EMPLOYEES
Providing a safe, inclusive, diverse,  
and productive work environment,  
a values-led organisational  
culture and career development 
opportunities that align with Woodside’s strategic direction. Annual staff briefing with the CEO and representatives of the Executive Committee (including video link to global locations) +Health and safety 
 +Major incident prevention 
 +Major incident response 
 +Climate change 
 +People, capability, inclusion  and diversityOngoing campaign to embed continuous improvement principles
Annual performance reviews and personal development plans  
for all employees
Ongoing communication and targeted programs for employee  
safety, health and wellbeing
Annual Woodside Awards to recognise outstanding employee 
achievement and contribution
FutureLab Exchange events enable employees to engage with  
industry experts and researchers
CEO-facilitated discussions with employees to promote engagement, 
involvement and two-way communication
Actively involved employees in our internal inclusion and diversity-
focused community groups
Annual event to recognise 20+ years of serviceWoodside Week in-house conference held to promote collaboration  
and innovation
GOVERNMENTS:  
LOCAL, STATE, FEDERAL  AND INTERNATIONAL
Development of oil and gas resources 
through the whole project life cycle. Environmental, social and fiscal performance and compliance.Ongoing liaison with state and federal regulators, local, state and federal government agencies, and a broad range of political stakeholders (including members of governments and oppositions) + Major incident prevention 
 +Climate change
 +Energy security 
 +Regulatory compliance
 +Anti-bribery and corruption
 +Local contentDirect submissions to state and federal governments
Contribute to domestic and international industry and business 
association submissions
Engagement with representatives from key regulators, government agencies and political stakeholders in areas where we are active internationally
SUPPLIERS AND 
CONTRACTORS
Working together with suppliers  
in an environment where joint ownership of outcomes exists. Transparent and effective communication throughout  the contract award process.Regular reciprocal supplier performance reviews  + Health and safety 
 +Major incident prevention 
 +Local content 
 +Disruptive technology 
 +Anti-bribery and corruptionEmbedded supplier relationship management with our Tier One suppliers
Continuous anti-bribery and corruption monitoringCollaborative, outcome-focused drive for delivery of tangible local 
content and indigenous engagement outcomes
Supplier feedback survey
NON-GOVERNMENT 
ORGANISATIONS
Ethical, social and environmental 
management of our activities, including revenue transparency  and efficient use of resources.Providing opportunity for non-government organisational input into  social and environmental impact assessments +Climate change 
 +Biodiversity 
 +Major incident response 
 +Social and cultural impacts  on communities
 +Human rightsAnnual recognition of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
Regular participation in industry forums and associationsRegular participation in the Voluntary Principles on Security and  
Human Rights events
LOCAL AND INDIGENOUS 
COMMUNITIES
Potential environmental and  
social impacts associated with operations. We have a broad range  of local community and indigenous  community interests and concerns.Community offices where we are active  +Local content 
 +Social and cultural impacts  on communities 
 +Human rightsCommunity grievance mechanism
Regular community consultation and engagement including  
community liaison groups and networks
Community events and programs
Regular social impact assessments and management planning  
that involves community input
Global Indigenous Peoples engagement strategy12  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017OUR APPROACH  
TO SUSTAINABILITY 
Woodside Compass value
We are here for the long term. We look after each other, our 
communities and the environment. We keep each other safe.Working sustainably is a core value embedded at every level of our company. It is fundamental to maintaining our 
social licence to operate and to being a global leader in upstream oil and gas. We are focused on delivering energy 
solutions that provide sustainable value for shareholders, partners and the communities in which we operate.
OPERATING WITH 
TRANSPARENCY  
AND INTEGRITY
We have policies and programs that 
address bribery and corruption, 
regulatory compliance, human 
rights risks and transparent payments to governments.
OPERATING 
RESPONSIBLY
We ensure our operations are 
safe and sustainable by improving 
our energy efficiency; sustainable 
consumption and production; oil spill prevention, preparedness 
and response; and  engagement 
with our communities, in addition 
to maintaining extensive research 
partnerships in marine environments.CREATING 
SHARED VALUE
Meaningful stakeholder relationships 
are key to developing programs that 
address societal and environmental 
needs and create shared value. Our social licence to operate is 
supported through our community 
social investment programs, supply chain and indigenous engagements.FOSTERING OUR 
ORGANISATION  
AND CULTURE
We focus on having a values-
led, high-performance culture 
where we promote inclusion 
and diversity and invest in training, education and 
technical programs.BUILDING A 
RESILIENT BUSINESS
We provide access to reliable and 
clean energy, and through the 
application of technology and 
innovation we are unlocking new opportunities such as providing 
the heavy transport sector with a 
cleaner fuel alternative to diesel. Sustainability principles
Our approach to sustainability is underpinned by our five sustainability principles:
These principles provide the foundation for ensuring we operate in a manner that is sustainable. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  13The next step is identifying the ways in which we will contribute to the SDGs, including the specific targets that we will focus on.  
By focusing on targets, there is an opportunity to understand the contribution that we are making, and communicate the impact of 
what we have achieved.Sustainability performance 
Woodside’s corporate scorecard includes metrics reflecting 
our material sustainability issues: for example, personal safety 
performance, process safety events and emissions intensity. 
Woodside’s sustainability performance is also linked to remuneration for employees and executives.
Refer to page 17 for more information on our performance targets.We respond to a range of environmental, social and governance (ESG) specific indices, including the DJSI, 
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), FTSE4Good, Sustainalytics 
and Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI). This year, Woodside received a Silver Class award from RobecoSAM for 
its DJSI sustainability performance, placing us in the top 3% 
when ranked against our peers in the oil and gas upstream and integrated sector. 
Refer to page 64 for more information on ESG indices. 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
On 1 January 2016, the SDGs came into effect. The 17 SDGs aim to tackle some of the world’s most pressing economic, 
environmental and social issues. Each of the 17 SDGs includes 
specific targets that cover everything from poverty to human rights, and environmental preservation to climate change. 
Woodside is already making a positive contribution to the SDGs, 
examples of which are captured throughout this report through the display of relevant SDG icons. A list of our activities that 
contribute to the SDGs can be found on page 62.
As a global energy provider, we acknowledge that our activities 
and operations contribute to some SDGs more than others. 
 
To further align ourselves to the global sustainable development 
agenda, we mapped our activities and impacts across our value 
chain against the SDGs and their targets. This exercise was undertaken so that we could ascertain which 
SDGs are most relevant to us, and highlight opportunities for 
further contribution. When assessing which of the 17 SDGs to 
focus on, the following features were considered:
 +Our impacts across the value chain
 +The alignment between the SDGs and our future  business direction
 +The potential to leverage our strengths to ensure our 
contribution would be meaningful
While our assessment found that Woodside’s activities support all 
17 of the goals, we believed our contribution could be maximised 
by focusing on five key SDGs. This approach was endorsed by the 
Sustainability Committee in December 2017.
Woodside is well positioned to assist in reducing climate change impacts while also providing a reliable and long-term energy supply to new markets. Access to reliable, sustainable, and affordable sources of energy 
provides the foundation for economic growth and reduced poverty. We are working to understand and 
minimise our direct emissions and promote the use of LNG to reduce our customers’ emissions, which align with the targets under this goal.
We believe that technology and innovation are essential to unlocking new energy markets and ensuring long-term sustainability. Collaborative programs such as FutureLab, which runs in parallel to the company’s own 
science and technology department, encourage innovation around robotics, cognitive computing and data 
analytics. We are also investigating opportunities to incorporate renewable technologies into our operations.
We recognise the scientific consensus on climate change and the challenge of providing safe, clean, affordable and reliable energy while reducing emissions in line with the Paris Agreement. We continue to evaluate the 
potential impacts of climate change on our operations and the environments in which we operate.
With operations offshore, we understand the imperative to minimise our impacts on ocean environments. Our 
approach to understanding the diverse environments in which we operate is supported by partnerships with 
research organisations that deliver robust scientific data and environmental knowledge.
We recognise that partnerships are essential to delivering meaningful contributions given the global nature 
of the SDGs. We collaborate with a variety of partners to improve community and environmental outcomes 
and solve real-world problems. We seek to partner with organisations that have similar values and are 
committed to real outcomes.14  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017Corporate governance modelGOVERNANCE
We believe that adopting and operating in accordance with high standards of corporate governance is essential 
for sustainable long-term performance and value creation.
Governance
Our approach to sustainability is incorporated in our Woodside 
Management System (WMS) including our policies, procedures 
and Code of Conduct.
Woodside’s Board of Directors has oversight of the 
company’s management and business activities. The 
Sustainability Committee assists the Board to meet its 
responsibilities in relation to the company’s sustainability policies, expectations and procedures. The Sustainability 
Committee, as at 31 December 2017, was comprised of 
six independent, non-executive directors. Our corporate governance model is illustrated below. 
Identifying and managing risk
Risk is inherent in our business. It is crucial that we maintain a robust and disciplined focus on operational excellence and 
effective risk management. 
By understanding and managing our risks, our business is 
able to perform effectively and provide protection to our 
people, communities and the environment. We systematically assess the consequence of risk in areas such as health and 
safety, environment, finance, reputation and brand, legal and 
compliance, and social and cultural impacts. Woodside’s Audit & Risk Committee oversees our Risk Management Policy and is responsible for satisfying itself that 
management has developed and implemented an effective risk 
management system and internal control framework.
The Board maintained oversight of material issues during 
2017, including through the Board committees, and monitored emerging issues and risks. Refer to pages 15–16 for more 
detail on the materiality process and 2017 material issues.
Refer to Woodside’s Corporate Governance Statement for more 
information (www.woodside.com.au).
Non-operated venture management
Globally, Woodside is a participant in a number of non-operated ventures (NOV) that have associated joint venture 
agreements. Woodside adopts a fit-for-purpose approach in 
working with the operator, reflecting the risks of the business and the jurisdiction of the NOV. Woodside has processes in 
place to manage NOV governance, compliance and assurance 
as part of the WMS. Woodside brings significant oil and gas operator capabilities and experience to its NOVs. Each NOV has 
a Woodside-nominated representative who seeks to understand 
the management of risk and ensure that our policies and expectations are met by the operator of the NOV.
TSTAKEHOLDERS
BOARD
AUDIT & RISK 
COMMITTEEHUMAN RESOURCES & 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEENOMINATIONS 
COMMITTEESUSTAINABILITY 
COMMITTEECHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE
EXTERNAL AUDITSTRATEGYAUTHORITIES 
FRAMEWORK
RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATING STRUCTURE
MANAGEMENT REVIEW & 
IMPROVEMENTMANAGEMENT 
COMMITTEESINTERNAL AUDIT
MAJOR PROJECT  
ASSURANCE CHECKSMANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE AND ASSURANCEDELEGATION ACCOUNTABILITY
COMPASS &  
 POLICIESEXPECTATIONSPROCESSES &  
PROCEDURESGUIDELINES
WOODSIDE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  15MATERIALITY
Woodside considers sustainability issues to be material if they have the potential to affect our ability  
to achieve our business strategy, our reputation, or are of material concern to our key stakeholders due  
to economic, environmental or social impacts. 
Each year we conduct a materiality assessment to identify and understand the sustainability issues of 
significance to our key stakeholders and our business.
1.  The Global Risks Report 2017, 12th edition, World Economic Forum. MATERIALITY  
PROCESS STEPSDESCRIPTION KEY INPUTS
Identify To identify the material issues, an initial 
desktop study of corporate documents 
and relevant global sustainability reports is 
undertaken, followed by meetings with key internal and external stakeholders. Sources 
of information at the ‘identify’ step are 
summarised in key inputs. +Company strategy
 +Previous material issues and emerging risks
 +Corporate risk register
 +Internal stakeholder interviews
 +Stakeholder issues register
 +External stakeholder interviews
 +National and global reports, e.g. Global Risks¹
Prioritise
Identified issues are prioritised using defined threshold criteria based on Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) materiality principles. Emerging 
issues, which may not feature in the list of top material issues, are recorded to ensure they are 
monitored as required. 
A clear description of the issues, including their 
boundaries and impacts, is defined and included 
in our materiality survey. The survey is sent to all 
internal and external stakeholders interviewed 
as part of the materiality process (in addition to 
a random sample of employees and community groups) providing an opportunity to rank issues 
from greatest to least concern. Internal:
 +Survey employees on key issues
 +Corporate risk register
 +Company strategy, policies and commitments
 +Contribution to SDGs
External:
 +Survey stakeholders on key issues
 +Community group input
 +Peer benchmarking
 +Media analysis
Validate Our top material issues, as identified in  
the ‘prioritise’ step, are validated by our  Board’s Sustainability Committee and our 
Executive Committee. +Committee meetings
Review
Each year we review the Sustainable 
Development Report and material issues with 
our internal and external stakeholders, and 
identify how our performance can be improved. +Benchmarking report
The materiality matrix on page 16 illustrates the output from the materiality process, specifically the ‘prioritise’ and ‘validate’ steps.
Refer to our website for more information on changes to the materiality process conducted in 2017 (www.woodside.com.au).16  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 20171. As part of 2017 materiality process, there are no issues referred to website only.Transparency,  
anti-bribery  
and corruptionThe outcome of the materiality process informs the development of this report to ensure we are 
adequately responding to key internal and external stakeholders' issues.
Refer to our website for more information on GRI boundaries for material issues (www.woodside.com.au).Material issues for 2017
Health  
and safety 
performanceClimate 
changeMajor incident  
responseMajor incident  
prevention
Materiality matrix
1. Climate change (page 36–39)
2.  Major incident prevention (pages 42–43)
3. Major incident response (pages 44–45)
4.   Transparency, anti-bribery  
and corruption (page 21)
5. Health and safety performance (pages 46-47)
6. Regulatory compliance (page 26)
7.  Human rights (pages 24 and 56) 
8.    Social and cultural impacts on communities  
(pages 50–55)
9.   People, capability, inclusion and diversity  (pages 28–31)
10. Energy security (pages 22 and 35) 
11.   Disruptive technology (page 40)
12.   Government decision impacts (page 22)
13.  Cyber-security risk (page 40) 
14.   Supply chain (pages 24, 56–57)
15.  Payment transparency (pages 22 –23)
16.  Global readiness (throughout report) 
17.  Local content (pages 30 and 56) 
18.   Reserve replacement (refer to pages 65–67 
 of the Annual Report 2017)
19.  Biodiversity and ecosystems (pages 48–49 ) 
20. Non–operator management (page 14)
21. Decommissioning (page 48)
Material issues
Key issues 
Covered in the report
Issues¹ 
Not covered in this reportHIGHER
Importance to business LOWER HIGHERImportance to stakeholders91
52 3
47
8 10
17 14
1512 11
13
16
20216
1819MATERIALITY 
MATRIX Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  17SUSTAINABILITY 
TARGETS 
We set sustainability targets in order to measure our annual performance and to help us monitor and deliver 
our commitment to sustainable outcomes. Woodside’s sustainability targets are reviewed each year in 
conjunction with our corporate scorecard process.
Our sustainability targets are embedded throughout the 
company and we include them at the following levels: 
 +Corporate scorecard targets
 +Corporate Executive Committee dashboard targets
 +Divisional performance agreement targets
 +Functional performance agreement targetsA number of targets and metrics associated with our material issues are linked to employee and executive compensation as 
part of our corporate scorecard. 
The targets presented in the following table reflect our 
most significant sustainability issues, as identified by our 
materiality process. Sustainability targets not specifically 
relating to our five material issues are integrated into relevant sections of this report.
1. We delivered 61 ktCO2 e of abatement, with more than half of this from installing 
more efficient inlet air filters on gas turbines at Karratha Gas Plant and Pluto (refer to 
case study on page 39).
2. Target of additional 1% reduction in fuel intensity (TJ/kt of hydrocarbon production)  and 7.5 t/kt flaring intensity were not achieved due to lower than expected onshore gas plant reliability in H1 2017. Direct causes have been addressed and further equipment repair is scheduled in 2018. Refer to page 39 for more information.3. The 2018 targets have been changed to align with corporate strategy on energy efficiency and achieving a reduction of greater than 389 ktCO 2e by 2020 
(equivalent to 5% reduction in energy efficiency). Fuel and flare target will still be monitored for performance. Refer to 
page 39  for more information.
4. Refer to page 44 for more information on RETOS 2.201 7 MATERIAL ISSUE 201 7 TARGETS 201 7 PERFORMANCE KEY 2018 TARGETS
Climate changeReduction of fuel 
intensity by 1% (TJ/kt of 
hydrocarbon production)
Flaring intensity less  
than 7.5 t/ktImplemented 61kt CO2e sustained emissions 
savings in calendar 
year.1 Did not achieve additional 1% fuel 
intensity improvement.2
Flaring intensity 9.5t/kt2Sustainable emission 
reductions of 80 ktCO2e 
against baseline3
Major incident preventionZero Tier 1 Process Safety Events (PSEs) and two or fewer Tier 2 PSEsZero Tier 1 PSEs and zero 
Tier 2 PSEsZero Tier 1 PSEs and two or fewer Tier 2 PSEs
Major incident response95% Global Assurance 
Benchmark Spill 
Preparedness  
rating (RETOS 2)499% Global Assurance Benchmark Spill 
Preparedness rating 
achieved (RETOS 2)95% Global Assurance Benchmark Spill 
Preparedness rating  
(RETOS 2)
Transparency,  anti-bribery  
and corruptionZero violations of anti-
bribery and corruption laws 
within or in connection 
with WoodsideZero violations  
of anti-bribery and corruption laws within or in 
connection with WoodsideZero violations of anti-
bribery and corruption laws within or in connection 
with Woodside
Health and  
safety performanceDemonstrate continuous improvement on 2016 
(TRIR 1.64) to deliver 
leading health and  safety performance1.29 TRIRDemonstrate continuous improvement on 2017 to deliver leading health and 
safety performancePluto LNG plant at dusk.OPERATING WITH 
TRANSPARENCY  
AND INTEGRITY20  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017BUSINESS  
ETHICS
Jacky Connolly (left), Woodside’s Vice President People and Global Capability, discussing our refreshed Compass with executive assistant Denise Janssen.
1. A substantiated matter can lead to more than one outcome.Our core values of integrity, respect, working sustainably, working together, discipline and excellence are 
set out in the Woodside Compass. These values underpin our Code of Conduct (the Code), which sets out 
our commitment to ethical business principles.
Woodside Compass and the Code
In 2017, we refreshed our Compass and relevant changes have 
been reflected in the Code, including expanded examples of 
potential conflicts of interest, among other improvements.
Refer to Woodside’s Code for more information  
(www.woodside.com.au)
It is the responsibility of every director, employee and contractor to 
be familiar with and comply with the Code, and for leaders to embed 
our Compass values across our business. All employees undergo 
mandatory training on the Code when they join the company and every year thereafter. Records of training are maintained 
electronically and monitored by Woodside’s General Counsel. 
Directors and senior managers are also required to provide annual certification of their compliance with the Code and related policies. 
All directors, employees and contractors are expected to report potential violations of the Code. All breaches are recorded, 
investigated, and the outcomes reported. Appropriate disciplinary 
action is undertaken by Woodside if violations are substantiated. 
Our Whistleblower Policy sets out Woodside’s commitment 
to maintaining an open working environment that enables the reporting of misconduct and outlines processes for responding to 
allegations of misconduct.Employees and our stakeholders have access to a confidential, 
externally managed helpline for reporting misconduct. All calls 
are referred to the General Counsel for review and investigation as 
appropriate. In 2017, there were 11 calls to the confidential helpline.
Our Audit & Risk Committee reviews reports on misconduct 
investigations, breaches of the Code, and matters reported to the 
external helpline. Woodside also maintains a specialist anti-fraud 
and corruption team.
Matters reported in 2017 have been tracked in a new case 
management system leading to greater efficiency and visibility. 
There were 89 reports of improper behaviour or breaches 
of the Code investigated in 2017. Of these matters, 46 were substantiated, 30 unsubstantiated and 13 matters remain under 
or pending investigation.
The substantiated matters resulted in the following outcomes:1
 +35 verbal warnings
 +13 written warnings
 +9 contract terminations. Of these:
 ›three terminations were fraud related
 ›three related to alcohol and drug breaches
 ›three related to inappropriate behaviour or harassment
There were no violations of anti-bribery and corruption laws 
detected within or in connection with Woodside in 2017. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Operating with transparency and integrity  21Bribery and corruption undermine fair competition, 
erode public trust in governments and business, 
and disadvantage economies. They present 
a threat to commercial organisations and communities worldwide.
Our approach
Woodside has a zero-tolerance approach to fraud, bribery and 
corruption. Our standard contracting terms and conditions 
require compliance with Australian and international anti-bribery 
and corruption laws and address specific obligations in relation to our policies.
Refer to Woodside’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy for more information (www.woodside.com.au)
When entering non-operated joint venture agreements, Woodside expects compliance with anti-bribery and corruption obligations by 
the operator and other participants in the joint venture.
Woodside reviews its anti-bribery and corruption processes 
as part of continuous improvement and our goal to mature 
our approach to sustainability, and made the following 
improvements in 2017:
 +Woodside’s Fraud and Corruption Control Program was strengthened after a comprehensive review by a leading 
international law firm in 2016. Improvements include 
expanded guidance for Woodside personnel to assist compliance, and greater consistency between relevant 
policies and procedures
 +We delivered updated e-learning corruption training to 1,918 
managers and personnel, representing 52% of employees. 
Senior management and all personnel in international locations 
were required to complete the training. In addition, personnel travelling to high-risk locations receive face-to-face briefings on 
bribery and corruption risks
 +We integrated our cyber-security processes and controls 
to better manage internal and external threats and added a 
senior information security representative to our Fraud and 
Corruption Control Committee
We assess fraud and corruption risk across all our activities and locations. To determine risk level, the criteria used include country of operation, activities undertaken, the level and nature 
of engagement with government, history of enforcement,  
and susceptibility to fraud and corruption. 
In line with Woodside’s corporate risk reporting cycle,  
our fraud and corruption risk is reviewed at least twice yearly. 
Woodside’s anti-fraud and corruption team undertook forensic 
analysis of information systems to identify potential anomalies 
and continue to employ data analytics in support of fraud and 
corruption control. TRANSPARENCY, ANTI-BRIBERY  
AND CORRUPTION 
No violations of anti-bribery and corruption 
laws were detected within or in connection with Woodside in 2017.Prevention Detection Response
Annual Code  
of Conduct and anti-bribery and corruption training.
Third-party engagements subject to risk-proportionate due diligence.Risk assessments refreshed at least twice a year.
Analytics conducted 
on procurement and finance data.
Eight audits of 
contractors and joint venture partners conducted this year.Zero-tolerance approach.
Twice yearly 
Board reporting.
Review of fraud  
and corruption control processes.Externally  
reviewed for our 
global operationsPrevention
Response Detection
2018 FOCUS AREAS
 +Integrating data analytics performed across the business 
to monitor fraud and corruption risks more effectively
 + Review third-party due-diligence processes to ensure 
they are fit for purpose in the identification and assessment of anti-bribery and corruption risks
 +Continued focus on auditing operators and high-risk 
contractors for compliance with anti-bribery and 
corruption provisions within contracts and agreementsMATERIAL ISSUE22  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017PAYMENT 
TRANSPARENCY
Complying with laws, regulations and stakeholder expectations in relation to financial payments is vital  
to maintaining Woodside’s licence to operate, and is required for all of our business activities. 
Political donations
In November 2017, Woodside made a submission to, and appeared 
before, the Australian Federal Parliament Senate Select Committee 
Inquiry into the Political Influence of Donations. The Committee 
Chairman expressed the view that Woodside was not required to declare its subscriptions to political parties’ business forums to the 
Australian Electoral Commission (AEC). However, as the current 
rules for disclosure are not clear and in the interest of transparency, Woodside continues to declare these forum membership payments. 
The Woodside Board has reaffirmed  its position on not donating 
to campaign funds for any political party, politician or candidate 
for public office in any country. Woodside’s Code of Conduct 
was also updated accordingly.
Political forum memberships
We believe that the exchange of information and views is essential to mutually informed decision making. 
With Board approval, in 2017 Woodside maintained membership of the two major political party business forums in Australia, being the 
Federal Liberal Party Australian Business Network and the Australian 
Labor Party Federal Business Forum. 
Woodside’s political contributions for the financial year 2016/17, 
as published by the AEC totalled A$279,800. This comprised 
A$110,000 each
 for membership of Liberal and Labor business 
associations and A$59,800 for participation in other state and 
federal political conferences and events. 
Political advocacy
Woodside regularly engages in an open and constructive manner 
with governments of countries in which we have a presence.
There is the potential for domestic and international government policy decisions to impact our business value and create uncertainty. 
We therefore monitor legislative and fiscal changes, seek to 
understand the effects of any changes by engaging with 
 
relevant stakeholders and advocate our position.
These stakeholders may include government members, government agencies, peers and industry associations  (refer to list of subscription / memberships on page 73).
Policy dialogue
In 2017, we contributed to Australian policy discussions about resource taxation, energy, and climate change.
During the year we made 23 submissions to federal and state 
government requests and parliamentary inquiries. 
A key political issue in 2017 was the policy response to escalating gas prices on the east coast of Australia. While Woodside is not 
a direct participant in the east coast gas market, we continue 
to monitor the issue and acknowledge the priority that the community places on access to secure, reliable and affordable supplies of energy. Such supplies are dependent upon adequate 
long-term investment in energy projects and consequently upon 
the stability of policy settings that support investment. 
Refer to Woodside’s public submissions on our website  for more information (www.woodside.com.au).
Financial transparency
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global standard to promote the open and accountable 
management of extractive resources. The EITI is used by a 
growing number of resource-endowed countries to improve transparency via the publication and verification of company 
payments and government revenues from industries such as oil, 
gas and mining. As a member of the EITI since 2005, Woodside is committed to reporting our petroleum tax and fee payments 
in respect of operations in implementing countries. Countries in 
which we have an interest that are members of the EITI include Timor-Leste, Senegal, Peru and Myanmar. In 2016 the Australian 
Government announced its intention to implement the EITI.
Our approach to tax
Woodside recognises the importance of stability, sustainability 
and competitiveness in tax and fiscal regimes. Paying the taxes 
due under the law is one of the ways we support our social 
licence to operate.
Woodside does not support the use of artificial arrangements and we apply arm’s-length principles to our international related-party 
transactions. We believe in paying taxes according to where value 
is created.
We have an established tax governance framework and our Board-
approved Tax Policy is clear – we will comply with all tax laws and 
regulations applicable to our business. The Tax Policy provides for 
 
a reporting framework to the Board and Audit & Risk Committee. 
Woodside is committed to maintaining open and constructive 
relationships with domestic and foreign tax policy creators and administrators. We take a proactive approach in clarifying interpretations and practices.
As an Australian-headquartered company, Woodside is proud to voluntarily operate under an Annual Compliance 
Arrangement with the Australian Taxation Office (ATO). This 
provides a compliance and risk management framework for real-time interaction and cooperation on tax matters including 
income tax and Petroleum Resource Rent Tax (PRRT).
Woodside also regularly engages with the ATO on indirect taxes, 
which include GST and excise, and the WA Department of Mines, 
Industry Regulation and Safety in relation to the administration 
of royalties. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Operating with transparency and integrity  23We commend tax transparency initiatives that increase  
public confidence in the contributions and compliance  
of corporate taxpayers.
In Australia, Woodside participates in the Board of Taxation’s 
voluntary Tax Transparency Code (TTC). Woodside has  
addressed the recommended TTC disclosures in two parts.  
The Part A disclosures are addressed in our Annual Report;  
the Part B disclosures are addressed in this report.
Demonstrating our commitment to transparency, we made our Tax Policy publicly available for the first time in 2017.
Woodside has been recognised as a leader in our sector on the 
DJSI for tax transparency.
Refer to Woodside’s Tax Policy for more information  (www.woodside.com.au).
  Refer to Woodside’s Approach to Tax for more information 
(www.woodside.com.au).
Tax contribution
At Woodside, we create shared value by paying our taxes, funding social programs, supporting local businesses and 
employing local people in the communities where we operate. 
We are proud of these contributions.
In Australia where the majority of our producing assets are 
located1, Woodside derives the majority of its income from the sale of hydrocarbon products produced.2 The company pays 
Australian tax on the profits made in relation to these sales.
Woodside is a significant taxpayer in Australia. We have paid 
approximately A$5.6 billion 3 in taxes and royalties over the past 
five years.
Woodside also pays taxes in other countries where we operate. 
The tax contribution summary is limited to Australia, as more 
than 95% of our taxes are paid in Australia.
In considering the Australian tax contribution made by Woodside, it 
is important to recognise that hydrocarbon production in Australia 
is subject to a complex mix of taxes including corporate income tax, 
PRRT and federal royalties and excise (both of which are applicable to the North West Shelf Project). 
In 2017, Woodside paid approximately A$797 million in taxes and royalties to the federal and state governments of Australia, 
as set out in the table provided.4
The amount of Australian taxes we pay is impacted by a number 
of factors including commodity prices that affect our revenues, 
production levels and the amount of capital and operating 
expenditure on petroleum activities. Our Effective Income Tax Rate (ETR) in respect of both our global and Australian operations is higher than the Australian 
corporate tax rate of 30%, as set out in the table provided.
Woodside remains committed to making available additional 
information in respect of its tax contribution for each income year. 
Refer to our Tax Transparency information sheet for more information (www.woodside.com.au).6
International related-party dealings 
Woodside is Australia’s largest independent oil and gas company with a growing global portfolio. Our areas of activity, including 
our global exploration and development business interests, are 
set out on pages 6–7 of this report. 
Supporting our business are several operations and support functions across the globe, including representative offices, 
providers of insurance and other services within the Group;  
and marketing, trading and shipping businesses.7
We apply arm’s-length principles to our international related-
party transactions, the total value of which is not significant when compared to revenue from production activities.
The primary form of our international related-party transactions is support services provided from Australia, where we are 
headquartered and the majority of our personnel are based. 
The value of these services presents approximately 1.5% of sales revenue.8
A component of our wider international related-party transactions relates to services provided from Woodside’s office in Singapore. 
This office enables us to participate in the growing LNG trading 
markets. This includes sourcing new buyers for our uncommitted Australian LNG cargoes. The profits from these cargoes are subject 
to tax in Australia.
1.  Refer to our areas of activity, specifically ‘producing facilities’, on pages 6–7 of this report.
2. Refer to the regional view of our production volumes and sales revenue from the sale of produced 
hydrocarbons disclosed on page 147 of the Annual Report 2017.
3. Approximately US$4.8 billion equivalent.
4. The cash basis of reporting includes all payments of taxes and receipts of refunds, including 
refunds of taxes overpaid in respect of prior years.
5.  Derived from the Annual Report 2017, the global operations ETR is calculated as the Group’s income 
tax expense divided by profit before income tax. The Australian operations ETR is calculated with 
reference to all Australian companies and excludes foreign exchange impact on tax expense.
6.  This information relates to tax payable for the 2015–16 income year and is on an accruals basis.
7. Refer to the Annual Report 2017 for a full list of our subsidiaries, which include our international 
related parties, their country of incorporation and our ownership interest.
8. Based on Woodside’s most recently filed Australian tax return.Effective income tax rate5 2017 2016
Australian operations 31.5% 30.5%
Global operations 34.2% 35.9%
Australian tax contribution (cash basis)2017 
(A$m)2016 
(A$m)
Corporate income tax 537 236
PRRT (8) (16)
Federal royalties 153 174
Federal excise 59 72
Payroll tax 53 51
Fringe benefits tax 3 8
Subtotal 797 52524  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017RESPECTING  
HUMAN RIGHTS
Woodside is committed to conducting business in a way that respects the human rights of all people, 
including our employees, the communities where we are active and those working within our supply chains.
Our approach
Woodside’s Human Rights Policy was endorsed by 
Woodside’s Board in October 2017 and details the principles 
by which we operate.
Refer to Woodside’s Human Rights Policy for more 
information  (www.woodside.com.au).
The policy guides Woodside’s global activities as we take steps to identify, prevent and manage potential human rights impacts 
in all phases of our value chain. These activities are informed by 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
The development of the policy was guided by Woodside’s 
Human Rights Working Group (HRWG) and informed by a benchmarking analysis of Woodside’s policies and systems 
against industry leaders that demonstrated our strengths and 
opportunities for improvement.
The HRWG meets on a regular basis to support an integrated 
approach to human rights across the business and consider 
opportunities to improve our performance. 
In 2017, we developed our human rights due-diligence process 
for our operations. Human rights are now specifically considered 
in the assessment of new venture opportunities. 
Looking forward, we will continue to progress implementation 
of the Human Rights Policy. Key activities include integrating 
human rights considerations into our management system  
and developing a human rights training framework.
Engagement in government and private  
sector initiatives
During 2017 Woodside participated in two Australian 
Government initiatives aimed at addressing modern slavery. 
Woodside made a submission to both the Inquiry into establishing a Modern Slavery Act in Australia and the Attorney-General’s 
Department’s public consultation for a Modern Slavery in Supply 
Chains Reporting Requirement. Both submissions were in support of Australian modern slavery regulation. We remain engaged with a 
range of stakeholders to understand the development of this issue.
We also work in collaboration with IPIECA, the global oil and gas 
industry’s association for environmental and social performance, 
on joint initiatives to share good practices and develop tools to 
enhance human rights performance. Woodside attended the 2017 Australian Dialogue on Business and Human Rights. We continue to participate in the Myanmar Multinational Investors Group and the AustCham Myanmar 
Responsible Investment Working Group in support of our 
activities in Myanmar. 
Managing security
Woodside’s approach to managing security is underpinned by our values and aimed at maintaining safe and secure operations 
while respecting human rights. As a signatory to the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights, Woodside is committed 
to respecting human rights wherever we operate. We achieve 
this through close ongoing engagement with governments, security providers and communities.
We continued to mature our security and human rights framework in 2017 in alignment with the Voluntary Principles 
by further embedding risk analysis, assurance and controls into 
our approach. We conducted in-country assurance reviews and implemented new due-diligence processes for joint venture 
partners, security providers and host government forces. There 
were no reported security and human rights issues in 2017. 
In 2018, we will continue to review and improve existing 
processes and implement new procedures to enhance our capability to report, investigate and remediate any potential 
security and human rights issues.
Managing our supply chain
Since 2016 all new contracts signed under Woodside terms and 
conditions require suppliers to comply with Woodside’s Supplier 
Code of Business Conduct, which mandates that suppliers must 
respect the basic human rights of all people.
In 2017, Woodside took the decision to strengthen this position 
and engaged external expertise to support the development 
of a framework with controls and management activities to manage human rights risks in our supply chain. 
The resulting framework describes the criteria to prioritise 
action, with particular focus on suppliers specific to the oil 
and gas industry, where Woodside and our peers are key to 
making a difference. 
In 2018, we will start the phased implementation of the framework in collaboration with our suppliers.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Operating with transparency and integrity  25
Woodside engaged Myanmar’s fishing communities to better understand the potential impact of our drilling activities.CASE STUDY
Woodside in Myanmar
Woodside is committed to proactively engaging with 
stakeholders in communities potentially impacted by our 
activities (see pages 50–51 for more detail). In support 
of this commitment, we continued our consultation with communities in Myanmar regarding our 2017 and 2018 
drilling activities.
Consultations with local communities in the Ayeyarwady 
Region and Rakhine State helped to build our knowledge of 
local livelihoods and inform our understanding of the potential 
impacts of our planned activities. Feedback confirmed that, due to the majority of local economic activities, including fishing, 
occurring in nearshore waters and Woodside’s activities being 
located further offshore, there was likely to be limited impact to community livelihoods.
While the humanitarian situation in Rakhine State did not directly impact our offshore drilling activities during the year, it did delay some consultation activities with local 
communities, which have since been completed. Woodside 
remains concerned about the ongoing situation in Rakhine State and continues to closely monitor developments.
In late 2017, Woodside donated A$100,000 to support 
humanitarian relief activities in Bangladesh and Myanmar. 
This donation will be used to provide shelter, food, clean water and health services for displaced people. 
This donation is in addition to social investment support 
Woodside provides in Myanmar.
We continue to engage openly and transparently in relation 
to the human rights challenges in Myanmar with a range of stakeholders including local communities, non-government 
organisations, and the Australian Government and its 
representatives in Yangon. 26  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017Woodside must operate an effective management system to ensure we comply with regulatory requirements 
wherever we operate. This remains a priority to meet our internal standards, the expectations of joint venture 
participants and stakeholders, and to maintain our licence to operate.
Our approach
Regulations protect both Woodside’s and our stakeholders’ 
rights and interests in the places we work around the world. 
Maintaining regulatory compliance is part of respecting our 
stakeholders’ rights and interests.
Our regulatory compliance management process has four core 
elements – knowledge, planning, compliance and assessment:
 +Knowledge – understanding the regulatory landscapes in which we work
 +Planning – planning to comply as part of the way we work
 +Compliance – meeting our obligations as planned
 +Assessment – assessing our performance
As part of this process a manager is assigned accountability 
for regulatory compliance for each project, facility or corporate 
level activity.
Performance is supported by a pan-Woodside software solution 
called the Woodside Integrated Risk and Compliance System 
(WiRCS). WiRCS provides a single, accessible library to capture regulatory compliance information and track our compliance 
actions worldwide. 
The use of WiRCS for regulatory compliance is part of a broader plan 
to synchronise activities and data relating to process management, 
internal controls, regulatory compliance and risk management. 
In addition to creating business efficiencies, data synchronisation enables cross-validation of business performance information 
(gathered as part of managing processes, internal controls, 
regulatory compliance and risk) to provide deeper business insights.
Our performance
There were no violations of anti-competitive practice laws detected within or in connection with Woodside in 2017.
No significant fines or monetary or non-monetary sanctions 
were received during 2017, with nine regulatory infringement notices being received in Australia.During 2017 WiRCS was used to support
43 ACCOUNTABLE 
MANAGERS
to track and evidence completion of
1 ,838 REGULATORY 
COMPLIANCE ACTIONS 
performed by
230 INDIVIDUALS 
from
22 DIFFERENT AREAS  
OF THE BUSINESS
supporting
49 FACILITIES/PROJECTS  
& 62 CORPORATE ENTITIES
across
1 9 COUNTRIESREGULATORY 
COMPLIANCE
2018 FOCUS AREAS
 +Improvements in assurance of processes and internal 
controls. Woodside’s business processes and internal 
controls are designed to achieve our business objectives 
while managing risk and meeting our regulatory obligations
 +Assessing conformance to processes and control effectiveness provides us with confidence in our ability  
to meet our regulatory obligationsFOSTERING THE 
ORGANISATION  
AND CULTURE 
Employees at Pluto LNG plant.28  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017PEOPLE
1. This includes vacation students.
2. Engagement measures commitment, loyalty and willingness to put in discretionary effort under Korn Ferry | Hay Group’s Engagement Performance Framework.
3. Enablement measures our workforce’s perception about the right people being in the right roles in a work environment conducive to productivity, under Korn Ferry | Hay Group’s 
Engagement Performance Framework.
4. Macquarie Research, ESG Equity Strategy. Picking Workforce Winners. 2017.Delivering superior shareholder returns depends on Woodside’s ability to attract and retain an engaged 
and enabled workforce that thrives in an inclusive, values-based culture.
Our approach
Our People Strategy focuses on growing outstanding leaders, 
building diverse capability, driving an inclusive, high-performing 
culture and optimising workforce performance. In line with 
our focus to drive better outcomes for the company and shareholders and to retain talented employees, we maintain competitive remuneration. The company’s human resources 
and compensation policies are overseen by the Board’s Human 
Resources & Compensation Committee.
Our performance
We continue to embrace our values-led culture through our Woodside Compass, which outlines our approach to growing a 
successful and sustainable business. In 2017 we refreshed our five-
year-old Compass to reflect our evolved strategic direction and reinforce our drive to innovate, collaborate and accelerate (refer to 
image on page 29).
In 2017, we concentrated on optimising workforce performance by 
maintaining a stable workforce, enhancing employee engagement, 
driving a values-led, high-performing culture and applying leading-edge technology.
Our overall workforce1  size remains steady at 3,597, which is 
comparable to 3,511 in 2016. We maintained our global voluntary 
turnover rate of 3.2% year-on-year which demonstrates a significant 
reduction over the past four years from 9.4% in 2013, supported by our strong employee engagement. 
Woodside conducts an employee survey every two years to 
measure employee engagement and enablement. In 2017, 80% of our workforce completed the survey. Based on the results of 
the survey, 74% of the respondents were engaged2  and 66% of 
respondents felt enabled3 .
Since 2013 our engagement levels have grown above the oil 
and gas industry average and are currently just below global top-performing companies. The results reveal our staff are confident in Woodside’s direction and goals, and are committed 
to values-led growth. They are confident in our leadership, and 
rate highly our commitment to diversity and corporate social responsibility. A recent report by Macquarie Research4 associates 
stronger financial performance with sustainable engagement 
levels and in 2018 our main objective will be to focus the organisation on activities to increase enablement levels.
Woodside optimises workforce performance using analytics and by applying leading-edge technology to improve process 
efficiency. In 2017, we continued to roll out our talent management 
software solution, SuccessFactors. The system allows us to execute talent management activities in one integrated platform. Under 
new modules introduced this year, we have better visibility of 
employee performance and goals, which helps maintain our strong performance culture and ensures key deliverables are being met. 
Our employees have also been able to input their qualifications 
and experience, which has given us a better understanding of the capabilities and diversity across our workforce.
For more information on performance metrics relating to People refer to the data table on page 67.
Engagement and enablement (%)
2013 2015 201763
6370
6674
66Engagement2
Enablement3
2013
 2014
 2015
 2016
 20179.4
7.3
5.7
3.3 3.2Global voluntary turnover (%) Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Fostering the organisation and culture   29LEADERSHIP 
Woodside continues to focus on growing our own future leaders through targeted development opportunities.
To further strengthen our global leadership capability and 
readiness for growth we continue to run development centres 
and provide our employees with experience-based learning 
opportunities. Our development centres objectively assess and develop leadership capability against global benchmarks. 
Woodside provides employees with opportunities to temporarily 
join other companies and Woodside entities overseas to gain exposure to international operations, global strategies, country-
specific regulations and culture. 
In 2017, we established the leaders as coaches program, 
attended by 361 participants, to enhance our leaders’ coaching 
skills to build the technical, leadership and safety capability 
of 
their teams. Woodside defines coaching as a leadership skill that involves facilitating a conversation to support and accelerate the performance and development of others. This program was 
designed and delivered internally to cater for Woodside’s needs 
and has delivered cost savings for the business. 
Our employee communities, Gender Equality Matters (GEM), Woodside Young Professionals, Graduate Community and 
Woodside Leadership Community, continue to host events to 
further strengthen our leadership capability. 
Our ability to grow outstanding leaders remains evident with 68% of senior leader appointments in 2017 coming from internal 
candidates. The ratio of graduate hires over mid-career external 
hires has also increased to 69%, versus 67% in 2016.
We have overcome some 
incredible challenges to be 
where we are today. Now, we draw on that 
pioneering spirit as we embrace 
the opportunities ahead.
We are an Australian company with a global 
outlook, resilient, determined and courageous.  
We believe that by doing what’s right, by living 
our values every day, we can perform  
to our very best.We are motivated to build on Woodside’s 
reputation as a highly regarded and successful 
company. We are inclusive and cohesive, working 
as a team to sharpen our competitive edge  
and drive progress. 
RESPECT
We give everyone a fair go. We listen.
DISCIPLINE
We play by the rules. We set goals  
and we hold ourselves to account.
WORKING SUSTAINABLY
We are here for the long term. We look after each other, our communities and the 
environment. We keep each other safe.
WORKING TOGETHER
We are on the same team. 
We build long-term partnerships.
INTEGRITY
We are open, honest and fair. We do what we say we will do. 
EXCELLENCE
We achieve great results. We learn. We get better. We have the courage to do the  
right thing.WE INNOVATE
We seek ways to continuously improve, always 
striving for better outcomes. We are solution-
focused, exploring fresh ideas and embracing 
new ways of working.
WE COLLABORATE
We work together, combining our distinctive capabilities to deliver the best possible result. 
We aim to be the partner of choice wherever 
in the world we operate.
WE ACCELERATE
We take decisive action in line with our business priorities and our values. We are agile, 
acting swiftly to achieve outstanding results.OUR MISSION
To deliver superior shareholder returns.
OUR VISION
Our aim is to be a global leader in upstream 
oil and gas.
OUR STRATEGIC DIRECTION
Maintain unwavering focus on maximising our base business, building the value of our 
portfolio and growing our market.We strive for outstanding results, 
clear on our aims and dynamic in  
our approach.WHO  
WE AREHOW WE WILL  
GET THEREWHERE  
WE’RE GOING30  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017INCLUSION  
AND DIVERSITY
Respect is one of our core values. We recognise that a key contributor to our success is an inclusive culture that 
promotes diversity and a sense of belonging. 
Our Inclusion and Diversity Policy outlines our commitment to 
an inclusive and diverse workplace. In 2017 we progressed our 
2016–2020 Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), developed a global 
Indigenous Peoples Strategy and continued to implement our Gender Diversity Strategy.Our employee group Spectrum also continues to support an inclusive working environment for lesbian, gay, bisexual, 
transgender and intersex (LGBTI+) staff at Woodside.  
We conducted numerous LGBTI+ awareness training sessions for interested staff supported by trainers from Pride in Diversity.
Refer to Woodside’s Inclusion and Diversity Policy for more information  (www.woodside.com.au).
CASE STUDY
Indigenous scholarships 
In collaboration with our joint venture partners and government, we support multiple education-based and 
remote school equity programs. These programs aim to 
improve education standards and attainment. St Catherine’s College at the University of Western Australia provides 
equity of access for Indigenous students through its Dandjoo 
Darbalung program. At present, 17 students are attending St Catherine’s on scholarships as part of Woodside’s key 
partnership with the program. The overall student university 
retention rate through this scholarship is 75%, which is 20% higher than the national average. 
Of the 24 students who have 
been recipients of this Woodside scholarship, 12 are continuing 
their studies and 11 have found full-time employment.
We also have partnerships with schools in Karratha, Roebourne 
and Broome. These partnerships help create opportunities for 
school and community to come together for both education and culture, in addition to attraction and retention of qualified 
gas industry personnel. For more information on the Karratha 
Education Initiative, refer to the case study on page 61.Indigenous participation
Woodside is committed to creating opportunities for 
Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. 
In 2017 we commenced the second year of our third Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), which Reconciliation 
Australia awarded its highest rating of Elevate. For 
 
additional information on the RAP and our commitment  
to outcomes for Indigenous people, refer to page 54.
Highlights from the past 12 months include these achievements: 
 +Increased our directly employed Indigenous workforce from  
103 employees in 2016 (3% of total workforce) to 117 employees 
(3.3% of the total workforce)
 +Increased our retention of Indigenous employees. Voluntary turnover reduced from 2.9% in 2016 to 1.7% in 2017
 +Continued to strengthen our talent pool through our pathways 
programs. In 2017, we made offers to eight Indigenous candidates 
to join the graduate development program (representing 8% of graduate intake). We have 27 Karratha-based Indigenous 
apprentices and trainees and 10 cadets undergoing tertiary 
 
study and work placement at Woodside
 +This is further supported by programs to provide greater 
high school and university opportunities to Indigenous 
people, including support of St Catherine’s College  
(refer to the Indigenous scholarships case study below)Woodside recognises that cultural awareness is a key enabler 
to maintaining a respectful and inclusive workplace culture. In 
2017, 494 participations attended cultural learning sessions, 
representing a 55% increase in participation as compared to 2016. This has included coaching workshops, Noongar 
language classes, and on-country cultural learning walks in 
Perth and Karratha. Woodside partners with Jawun to provide secondment cultural enrichment opportunities to current and 
future leaders in order to build their cultural competency and 
leadership skills, through a six-week placement in Indigenous communities. Our employee group, Woodside Reconciliation 
Community, advances Woodside’s objectives through an 
engaged, active and informed Reconciliation collegiate. They drive company-wide activities for Reconciliation and NAIDOC 
weeks and membership continues to grow. 
Indigenous participation
14 15 16 1799
94
103
117 Indigenous employment (total #)
 Indigenous turnover (%)14.0
3.22.9
1.7 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Fostering the organisation and culture   31
GRADUATE INTAKE2
2017
50 %2016
50 %MID-LEVEL
2017
28.6 %2016
29.4 %SENIOR
2017
17.6 %2016
15.9 %EXECUTIVE
2017
23.9 %2016
19.6
Gender balance
In 2017, we advanced our strategy to drive sustainable 
improvements in gender diversity within our workforce. Female 
representation remains steady at 29% versus 28.4% in 2016, which 
is significantly higher than the industry average of 22%.1  Voluntary 
turnover is 4.5% and the return rate from parental leave is 95%, 
which is our highest rate recorded. Executive and senior female 
representation have continued to increase since 2016 from 19.6%  
to 23.9% and 15.9% to 17.6% respectively. 
We continue to build our female talent pool through our 
development programs. Our Production Training Academy continues to develop our female trainees and apprentices. In 2017, 
the overall percentage of females in our graduate development 
program increased and the intake of females into technical roles remains strong. Woodside accelerates the development of women to progress into senior leadership roles through providing gender balanced 
opportunities such as the Master of Business Administration 
program and Women on Board workshops. 
In 2017, Woodside’s parental leave entitlements were updated in 
support of our focus on inclusion and diversity, recognising that families are formed in a range of circumstances (for example 
birth, surrogacy and adoption) and that caring is shared across 
roles within a family unit. The Gender Equality Matters (GEM) employee group continues to drive education and engagement 
on gender equality at Woodside. A new employee group called 
“Man Up” was established to engage men in gender diversity equity and the creation of an inclusive workplace culture. 
Employees on site at Pluto LNG in Karratha, Western Australia.
1. The World Petroleum Council and The Boston Consulting Group, 2017.
2. Offers and acceptances to commence in 2018.32  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017CAPABILITY
Woodside is committed to building diverse capability by providing all employees with high-quality learning 
experiences. There are currently 100 employees on internal cross-functional rotations, which aim to broaden 
their experience across our value chain. The company continues to support employees further developing 
their capability in their discipline through additional tertiary education qualifications. This results in higher performance delivered in current roles and opportunities to progress into larger and more significant positions. 
Our graduate development program continues to provide 
structured learning opportunities to accelerate working 
autonomously. In 2017, 94 graduates participated in action 
learning projects. 
The Production Academy provides core skills development for operator trainees, apprentices, laboratory, IT, business 
administration, warehouse and operations support trainees. In 
2017, focus areas included ongoing core skills competence for our existing operator and maintenance technician workforce, updating 
of production competency profiles and the introduction of a pilot 
pre-apprenticeship program for selected Indigenous candidates. We continue to work with industry in a Verification of Competency 
collaborative forum and in the development of industry-specific 
Process Plant Operations qualifications. 
We recognise the importance of equipping students today with the knowledge and skills they will need for the jobs of 
the future. We are committed to championing the study of 
science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM), to build capability within the next wave of scientists. To achieve this, 
we work closely with external agencies and organisations 
to promote learning in critical areas – for our business, our industry and wider society.CASE STUDY
STEM in schools 
Creating a pipeline of talent for the resource industry starts with fostering an interest in maths and science at 
a young age.
Through the Woodside Australia Science Project, 
Woodside has collaborated with Earth Science 
Western Australia (ESWA) to provide resources, 
materials and training to around 3,000 teachers, as well as school visits, that promote earth and 
environmental sciences. 
One new initiative, which is leveraged off our 
partnership with ESWA, is our STEM in Schools 
program. Led by th
e Gender Equality Matters (GEM)  
group, employees have been volunteering at primary and secondary sc
hools to promote STEM 
subjects and STEM-related career paths. 
In 2017, more than 178 Woodside employees have 
delivered STEM in Schools sessions to more than 7,000 students across Western Australia. Woodside won the 
World Petroleum Excellence Award for this program. 
Refer to page 59 for details of Woodside’s award.
Woodsiders at Kinross Primary School in Western Australia promoting STEM subjects.BUILDING A  
RESILIENT 
BUSINESS 
On site at Pluto LNG plant.34  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017ECONOMIC 
PERFORMANCE
We have a clear strategy to deliver superior shareholder returns across three distinct time horizons. These horizons 
are characterised by cash generation (2017-2021), unlocking value (2022-2026), and repeating our successes 
(2027+). Strong performance from our base business and improved market conditions have generated strong cash 
flows and contributed to improved profit.
Our 2017 annual production was 84.4 MMboe. This included 
34.8 MMboe from our North West Shelf Project, incorporating 
6.0 MMboe of domestic gas for the Western Australian market, 
and 41.1 MMboe from our Pluto LNG Project.
We generated $3,908 million in operating revenue for the year. 
With a low unit production cost of $5.2 per boe, our strong performance contributed to a net profit after tax of $1,024 million.
Our cash flow from operations of $2,400 million allowed us to 
fund our investment spend and generate free cash flow of $832 
million. In 2017 we declared $826 million in dividends, equivalent 
to 98 cents per share (cps). Our dividends were fully franked for 
Australian taxation purposes and our gross dividend yield for the year was 5.4%.Woodside’s break-even oil price, the price where cash flow from operations is expected to equal investment expenditure, was 
$36 per bbl, well below the average price for Brent this year.
A full description of Woodside’s financial and operational 
performance and reserves statement is contained on pages 
19–67 in Woodside’s Annual Report 2017.
One way in which we depict our total economic contribution 
is illustrated below. The chart shows economic value retained, 
calculated as economic value generated less economic value 
distributed to shareholders, governments, suppliers, employees, 
host communities and financiers.
In 2018 and beyond, we will continue to deliver in accordance 
with our strategy across three distinct time horizons.
Refer to pages 24–25 of the Annual Report 2017 for more information on Woodside’s strategy.
Value generated (economic contribution)
Value generated and distributed ($ billion)1
1. Value generated and distributed is consistent with the Woodside Annual Report 2017, consolidated statement of cash flows. Components reported have been derived 
from the consolidated statement of cash flows, or converted to USD using the average rate of 0.77 AUD/USD.
2. Supplier costs are consistent with the Group’s audited financial statements. They include operating, capital and exploration expenditure paid to suppliers and contractors for materials and services and exclude employee wages and benefits, payments to governments, payments to community groups, investments and repayments, interest, depreciation, amortisation, impairments and relevant indirect taxes.
3. Value distributed to employees is based on Woodside’s gross payroll costs reported on a cash basis.
Value generated5
01234US$b
Dividends
Suppliers2
Employees3
Interest
Communities
TaxesInvestment and 
repayments
Value retained(0.61)
(0.20)
(0.71)
(1.56)
(0.83)
 3.91
0.030.04
 (0.01) Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Building a resilient business   35WORLD ENERGY  
OUTLOOK
We are here for the long term. We monitor global 
trends for energy demand and use scenario planning 
to explore the resilience of our business and the 
ways in which Woodside can contribute to global sustainable development goals.
The International Energy Agency (IEA) expects the world  
will need 28% more energy in 2040 than it produces today.  
The Asia-Pacific region will account for nearly two-thirds of 
global energy demand growth through to 2040. There are 
several key long-term trends in energy demand identified by 
the IEA:
 +Electrification – dominant source of energy demand growth 
Increased electrification of all economic sectors, including transport, contributes to total demand for electricity growing 
 
at over twice the pace of total energy demand growth
 +Oil will remain a key part of the energy mix into the future 
While oil remains the primary energy source in 2040, demand begins to plateau in the late 2020s due to an increase in demand f
or electric vehicles and improvements in the efficiency of 
internal combustion engines. Oil demand for petrochemical 
feedstocks and heavy duty transport remains resilient
 +Gas helps avoid emissions and addresses intermittency  
The IEA anticipates natural gas demand increasing by 45% between 2016 and 2040. Gas displaces coal and complements 
renewables in power generation due to its competitive cost, lower carbon footprint, fast deployment and flexibility as 
back-up generation. China alone represents nearly a quarter 
of global gas demand growth through to 2040 as political and environmental pressures advance gas in the electricity and 
transportation sectors
 +Renewables experience strongest growth  
Renewable energy sources experience the strongest growth of all 
primary energy sources, principally for use in power generation
 +Coal demand declines  
Although coal use is expected to increase in key markets such as India and South East Asia, demand for cleaner fuels 
results in primary demand for gas overtaking coal demand 
in the early 2030sLNG outlook
The LNG market is in a period of rapid expansion of supply. Strong global economic growth and demand for cleaner fuels have also 
driven very rapid growth in LNG demand. Earlier expectations of 
an extended period of oversupply are giving way to a recognition that an LNG supply shortfall could emerge by the early 2020s. 
Meeting this shortfall requires near-term commitment from both 
LNG suppliers and buyers to develop new resources. 
China, India, Pakistan, South Korea and South East Asia have all shown recent signs of LNG demand upside, supported by GDP 
growth and strong policy support.
In China, policy moves to increase gas use in the recent Five 
Year Plan are starting to take effect. New Chinese energy policies targeting urban air pollution, coal power retirements 
and reliability for renewables are expected to create additional 
natural gas and LNG demand upside. LNG imports have filled over 50% of gas demand growth in China over the last two 
years, and this is expected to continue until more domestic 
supply comes online in the early 2020s.
The Chinese Government targets gas having a 15% share of the 
energy mix by 2030, up from 6% in 2017. Much of this growth is likely to come from LNG imports, with new contracting 
expected to begin imminently.
In South Korea, policy shifts away from coal and nuclear power 
have caused a surge in LNG demand. In India, LNG import 
capacity is expected to increase rapidly through to 2021, 
removing potential logistical constraints on demand growth.
New technologies and operating models such as Floating Storage Regasification Units are also continuing to open new markets 
and shortening time to first LNG imports, particularly in emerging 
markets such as Pakistan and South East Asia.
With emergent demand upside and potential delays for new 
projects under construction, the market could tighten earlier 
 
than some forecasters anticipate. New Final Investment Decisions 
will need to be taken by 2020 to ensure that the market remains 
adequately supplied from 2023. Woodside is well positioned to 
respond with a significant portfolio of gas resources that can be delivered at globally competitive costs of supply, to respond to 
these LNG market dynamics.
Refer to pages 22–23 of the Annual Report 2017 for more 
information on LNG markets and our energy outlook.
Woodside believes gas will continue to play an important role in the energy mix. We are evolving to 
meet the challenges of a low carbon economy by offering our products to meet the world’s requirements for reliable and sustainable energy, exploring opportunities to partner with renewables and development 
of new markets.36  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017 +Demand for lower carbon fuels will increase, especially 
in sectors that have few zero-carbon alternatives
 +Climate change and air-quality policies encourage coal to gas substitution in the power sector
 +Growth in renewable electricity supports the long-term use of natural gas as a relatively low-carbon and 
flexible fuel
 +Efforts to improve our energy efficiency allow us to 
convert more of our reserves to saleable productCLIMATE CHANGE OPPORTUNITIESWoodside believes that natural gas will continue to play an important role in the long-term energy mix, reducing 
emissions by replacing coal and integrating with renewables to address intermittent power generation.
In 2017, Woodside released its Climate Change Policy 
supporting its defined climate change approach in these ways:
 +Ensuring the resilience of our portfolio
 +Improving the carbon performance of our facilities  and developments
 +Communicating the future role of gas
Woodside continues to invest in and promote technologies  
that reduce emissions and promote energy efficiency.  We are evolving to meet the challenges of a low carbon economy by offering our products in a way that meets the world’s requirements 
for reliable and sustainable energy, including partnering with 
renewables and developing new markets. This aligns with the SDGs Affordable and Clean Energy (7), Industry, Innovation and 
Infrastructure (9) and Climate Action (13).
Refer to Woodside’s Climate Change Policy for more 
information  (www.woodside.com.au).CLIMATE  
CHANGE
Governance and risk management
Responsibility for climate change risk within Woodside 
rests with the Woodside Board through its Sustainability 
Committee, and Woodside’s Managing Director and Chief 
Executive Officer. We manage climate change risk using our business risk management process.
Climate change presents a range of opportunities and risks for 
our business. Key opportunities for Woodside relate to demand for lower carbon fuels, such as gas, and energy efficiency. Risks 
for Woodside are primarily associated with our ability to adapt 
to different transition scenarios for gas and LNG usage. Other risks include the physical impacts of a changing climate.
Refer to Woodside’s latest Climate Disclosure Project (CDP) 
response for more information (www.woodside.com.au).
Risk of reduced demands for fossil fuels
Lower demands for fossil fuels may make investment for 
new assets more challenging. This potential risk could 
disproportionately impact emissions-intensive assets with 
high cost of supply. With our portfolio heavily weighted to gas the life-cycle emissions intensity of our assets is relatively low. 
We also have made dramatic reductions in the costs for our opportunities. By leveraging existing infrastructure we have 
achieved a 60% cost reduction for the Browse development 
concept, compared with the previous Kimberley concept. We have also achieved a 30–40% cost reduction for Kitimat since 
acquisition through innovation and technology. We aim to 
achieve 
top decile break-even prices through further innovation.
Physical risks and adaptation
We have modelled the long-term impacts of climate change 
on our facilities. Our analysis shows that the main impact is 
sea level rise and this is accounted for in our basic design data 
(BDD). The BDD for each facility is formally reviewed every five years. If, upon revision, a significant change from the previous 
BDD is identified then a formal management-of-change process 
is initiated to inform stakeholders, understand the impact and if necessary, indicate remediation. The process can occur on 
a more frequent basis should a particular issue be identified. 
We have also considered potential changes in tropical cyclone characteristics and surface temperatures.
We participate in an industry forum led by the International 
Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) that is developing best practice recommendations on how to model and respond 
to the physical impacts of climate change.
 +Reduced demand (or slower demand growth) for fossil 
fuels resulting in reduced asset value
 +Physical climate change impacts on our facilities
 +Carbon-reduction policies increase taxes and regulatory burden
 +Changing stakeholder expectations lead to challenges in gaining approvals for new projectsCLIMATE CHANGE RISKSMATERIAL ISSUE Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Building a resilient business   37Climate change remains a global material issue.
Progress on the Paris Agreement continued in 2017, with more 
than 173 of the 197 Parties to the Convention having now ratified the agreement. The United States has announced that it will 
withdraw from the Agreement. 
Recent United Nation’s meetings have started to define how 
the Paris Agreement will be implemented and have resulted in 
emerging initiatives being launched, such as “Powering Past 
Coal” which aims to phase out coal power by 2030.For the first time since industrialisation, global emissions plateaued between 2014 and 2016 whilst the global economy grew. However, emissions increased slightly in 2017, highlighting 
the need for additional efforts to enable the world to transition 
to a low carbon economy.
There is rising investor interest in climate change issues, 
including risks to existing business models. Recognising this, Woodside discloses the process for identifying climate-relevant 
risks and opportunities, our scenario analysis process and 
corporate oversight of climate change risk and related issues.INTERNATIONAL CONTEXT
Portfolio resilience
We acknowledge that our investors, regulators and 
other stakeholders want us to be transparent about  
the impacts of climate change on our business.
Delivering natural gas as a key part of the  
long-term energy mix
About 90% of the emissions from Woodside’s value chain comes 
from our customers using our products. This means that the greatest 
opportunities to impact global emissions come from how and where 
our customers use our products. As the lowest emission fossil fuel, natural gas reduces emissions when it replaces oil or coal.
Scenario analysis
The energy future will be shaped by factors including economic growth, technology, politics and a choice of development goals; 
including energy poverty and air quality. A number of institutions 
have developed long-term energy scenarios that contemplate a range of outcomes and a range of probabilities of those outcomes. These include low carbon scenarios, many of which illustrate a 
strong role for LNG as a clean, reliable, flexible and low-emission 
energy source.
In 2017, we committed to including a 2°C scenario in the range 
of scenarios we use to understand potential impacts, risks and opportunities from climate change. Woodside has developed a long-
term integrated energy-economics model to quantify the impacts of 
potential change in energy markets, with a particular focus on LNG.
We consider a range of carbon prices to test investment decisions, 
including prices that are consistent with a 2°C outcome.
The robustness of our business is assessed for current assets and 
development projects on a periodic basis against various business 
environment assumptions including oil price and operating costs. 
Woodside defines scenarios using macroeconomics including long-term energy supply and demand, policy and oil price. Analysis 
to date indicates that cost of supply is a key factor to enable and 
maintain long-term business sustainability.
Woodside regularly reports on cost of supply via public results 
briefings. In the past three years unit production costs have reduced by more than 30%.
In the future we plan to further discuss our approach and process for 
developing long-term energy scenarios. Refer to the World Energy Outlook section on page 35,  
for more information.
LNG fuels in the transport sector
In the transport sector, passenger and other light vehicles may transition to batteries. But batteries are unlikely to be able to provide sufficient energy density for heavy transport sectors such 
as international shipping. 
To better quantify the emission benefits of LNG, we calculated the 
life-cycle emissions for realistic LNG consumers in the Pilbara using 
emissions data from the Pluto LNG plant and engine manufacturers’ 
data where available. We modelled the impact for locomotives, mining equipment and remote power generation. The relatively 
low-emissions intensity of LNG presents an opportunity to reduce 
heavy transport greenhouse emissions by up to 30%, whilst also reducing local air pollutants such as sulfur oxides (SO
X), oxides of 
nitrogen (NOX) and particulate matter.
The major source of uncertainty in LNG greenhouse gas–emission benefit is the amount of ‘methane slip’ in each engine. Methane slip applies to certain dual-fuel engines and results in a small fraction of 
the natural gas fuel passing through the engine without combusting, 
which can offset the benefits of switching to gas. Manufacturers have significantly reduced methane slip in recent years and there are 
already engines for marine and power generation applications that 
achieve zero or near-zero methane slip.
As well as having greenhouse gas benefits, natural gas also has nearly zero SO
X and particulate emissions and dramatically 
lower NOX emissions. The table below shows how LNG 
compares as a transport fuels to other products.
LNGDiesel/Marine 
Gas OilHeavy  
Fuel Oil
Cost
Volumetric  
energy density
CO₂
NOX
SOX
Particulates
Spill clean-up
Technology ready1
Best Worst
1. Includes supply-chain readiness.38  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017
Schematic of LNG truck-loading facility at the Pluto LNG plant.
Oil in Woodside’s portfolio
Our portfolio is heavily weighted towards gas and is expected to 
remain so despite our recent oil investment in Senegal. Although we 
strongly believe in the long-term future of gas we continue to invest 
in oil as it provides diversification in terms of both product mix and geographic location. Oil is also likely to continue to be a major part of 
the energy mix, despite a broad expectation of peak oil occurring in 
the coming decades. Oil assets typically have shorter development cycles and payback periods, meaning that current investments in oil 
assets also have less impact on our long-term portfolio.
Policy advocacy & partnerships
Carbon pricing
As a long-term policy objective, Woodside continues to 
support global carbon pricing as a means to achieve low-cost 
emissions reductions. We also remain supportive of market-
based mechanisms in the absence of global action. Carbon policy needs to be applied consistently to all fuels and emission sources 
so that industries such as LNG are not disadvantaged with costs 
that international competitors may not face. Delivering sustainable 
energy is a key priority. We believe that reduction in emissions via carbon pricing and policy is part of the solution. We also believe 
that producing LNG can deliver benefits aligned to several SDG 
outcomes such as cleaner air, energy security and reducing poverty.
Partnerships – CO2CRC
In line with our Climate Change Policy principle of partnering with research organisations, we recently joined the CO2CRC (formerly 
the CO2 Cooperative Research Council) and are represented on 
the group’s board. The CO2CRC conducts world-class research into carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology using pilot-
scale projects in Victoria. The CO2CRC is developing technology 
and expertise to support the long-term commercialisation of CCS.
Partnerships – World Bank Zero Routine Flaring 
initiative by 2030
In 2017, Woodside became the first Australian-based company 
to sign the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring Initiative. Woodside 
continues to support policies that encourage the cessation of 
routine flaring of gas associated with oil production by 2030 across the industry. Woodside will report on its progress towards this goal when requested by the World Bank.CASE STUDY
Supplying the Pilbara – LNG fuels
To accelerate development of the LNG fuels market in the north-west of Australia, construction of a LNG truck–loading facility is being progressed at the Pluto LNG 
plant. This will allow Woodside’s LNG to be distributed by 
truck to customers throughout the Pilbara. Three billion litres of diesel is imported into the Pilbara each year. If a 
third of this was replaced with LNG, it would reduce our 
customers’ emissions by up to half-a-million tCO₂e.
The Pilbara location also gives us access to one of the largest shipping routes in the world, transporting iron 
ore from Western Australia to Asia. The ships on this 
route use five billion litres of heavy fuel oil each year. Use of heavy fuel oil will be restricted from 2020 with 
the introduction of International Maritime Organisation 
limits on sulfur emissions, forcing shippers to install emissions control systems, use low-sulfur fuels, or use 
LNG. To catalyse the use of LNG on this route, we are 
a founding participant in the “Green Corridor” Joint 
Industry Project. This partnership includes Rio Tinto, 
BHP, FMG and shipping industry participants. One of its first activities has been to design and certify an LNG-
fuelled ship that can operate on this trade route. This 
milestone was achieved in October 2017 and supports SDG 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure.
Renewables
We are also exploring opportunities for LNG to partner with renewables to provide integrated energy solutions. Renewables are 
well suited to providing off-grid power but they need a reliable and 
flexible backup, which LNG can provide. We are also investigating ways to use batteries and solar in conjunction with our facilities to 
address power needs and to reduce emissions.
We are exploring new uses of LNG, new markets and new ways 
to deliver power to them. The models we are developing for 
integrated remote power generation in the Pilbara can also 
offer a reliable and sustainable source of power in non-OECD countries, supporting SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Building a resilient business   39CASE STUDY
Improving energy efficiency
An LNG facility is essentially a large, industrial refrigerator, cooling the natural gas from the reservoir below -160°C 
so it can be transported in liquefied form. The energy to run this process comes from gas turbines. Over time, dust 
and other contaminants in the air degrade the performance of these turbines and reduce their efficiency. Based on a 
successful implementation of new technology at the Karratha Gas Plant, we recently upgraded turbine air filters at the Pluto LNG Plant so they now capture particles as small as 0.1 microns. These more advanced filters reduce the rate at 
which performance degrades, resulting in higher production. For Pluto’s filters, this production is equivalent to an annual 
emissions saving of approximately 20 ktCO₂e. This delivers about 5% of Woodside’s 2020 target.Scope 1 and Scope 2 operated emissions by source
kt CO 2e
16 17 15 14 1312,000
6,000
0
 Fuel combustion  Flare  Venting  Other
Planned energy efficiency improvements against baseline
 Energy efficiency improvements (LHS) Current gap (LHS)
  Energy efficiency 2020 target (LHS)  Emissions intensity without improvements (RHS)
  Emissions intensity after improvements (RHS)
Emissions intensitykt CO 2e0.36
0.32
0.2916 17 18 19 20400
200
0Equity emissions
 Scope 1 emissions - equity (LHS)  Scope 1 emissions intensity - equity (RHS)
 Wheatstone emissionskt CO 2e
Emissions intensity
16 17 15 14 134,000 0.5
2,000 0.25
0 0 
Improving our emissions performance
Our direct emissions principally come from fuel used to power 
our facilities, reservoir CO₂ that we vent, and flaring. Over 95% 
of this is carbon dioxide, but methane, nitrous oxide and sulfur 
hexafluoride also contribute small quantities. The NWS Project, our largest facility, emitted approximately 1% more than its 
regulated baseline in the 2017 financial year due to increased 
production, major shutdowns falling outside the financial year and increased flaring. The Clean Energy Regulator made a 
determination providing for a multi-year monitoring period. We 
expect NWS emissions to return to below the baseline during this monitoring period due to improved flaring, more typical shutdown 
timing and ongoing efforts to improve energy efficiency.
Our overall equity emissions decreased from 2016 to  
2017 due to changes in our portfolio equity share. Our  
non-operated Wheatstone facility commenced production 
in 2017, contributing 49.6ktCO2e to equity emissions. Equity 
emissions intensity increased slightly during the period due 
to a predicted increased share of LNG in our product mix as a result of a reduction in our domestic gas equity position in 
NWS. Producing LNG is typically more fuel-intensive than 
domestic gas.Flaring
Operational flaring in 2017 was 280,517 tonnes of hydrocarbon, an increase from 2016 that exceeded our 2017 target by 50,000 tonnes. 
Defects in the main heat exchangers at Karratha Gas Plant (KGP), 
requiring refrigerant to be flared for continued efficient operation, were the main cause. Scheduled repairs in 2018 will reduce this 
source of flaring. Unplanned shutdowns due to electrical faults also 
contributed to flaring at our two operated LNG plants. Although the direct causes have been addressed, we are actively reviewing the 
facility to identify and mitigate any further reliability risks. 
Energy efficiency
In 2016, we set a target to improve energy efficiency by 5% 
by 2020, which equates to a reduction of 389 ktCO2e. This is 
a challenging target that requires work-force led optimisation 
opportunities in our operations.  These bottom-up innovations reflect a growing awareness and focus on energy efficiency, and 
complement step-change improvements being considered as part 
of new investment opportunities and life extension works (e.g. GWA platform use of batteries, refer to case study on page 40). 
To date we have implemented improvement projects that achieve 
20% of this target and identified projects that deliver a further 70%. We will continue to identify and implement additional opportunities 
across each of our operating assets to achieve this target.
2017 operated emissions by gas
kt CO 2e CO₂: 9,439
 CH4: 428 N₂O: 12.7 SF6: 2.540  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017APPLYING 
TECHNOLOGY  
AND INNOVATION
We believe that technology and innovation are essential 
to unlocking new energy markets, reducing our capital 
and operating costs, managing cyber-security risk and 
ensuring our long-term sustainability.
Our approach
First, start with a business opportunity or problem. Then – think big, 
prototype small, and scale fast.
Collaboration remains key to how we harness, develop and apply new and disruptive technologies to help solve some of 
our industry’s largest and most complex challenges. It is also 
allowing us to reduce risk to both our business and our people and lower our environmental impacts.
Analytics, sensors and robotics
Woodside’s data analytics program has provided Woodside with opportunities to boost productivity by allowing us to make faster 
and more accurate decisions, safely and efficiently.
In order to make further gains, Woodside has developed and 
deployed a prototype advanced sensor network utilising new 
low-cost wireless sensors. These sensors can quickly stream 
data to our existing analytics platform, driving even further insight around specific business opportunities.
In June 2017 we launched a program with the US Federal Government’s National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
(NASA) under which Woodside will conduct a five-year program 
to develop applications for NASA’s Anthropomorphic Robonaut System. Woodside will contribute its advanced cognitive science 
technology and NASA will share its experience in robotics.
In addition to the NASA Robonaut, Woodside’s robotics 
program includes machines capable of gathering specialised 
data through tele-operations and semi-autonomous patrols 
and inspections. In November we trialled two robots at Pluto LNG plant to perform activities suggested by our operators, 
engineers and maintenance workers.Applying data science, smart sensors and robotics to our 
existing facilities enhances our current performance and provides the insights and experience to optimise the designs  
of our future facilities.
Cognitive computing 
Our cognitive adviser, known as Willow, was built and designed by Woodside and is already being used by more  
than 1,900 employees.
Willow interacts in plain language and is intuitive to use. Willow is designed to connect to domain-specific information and surface 
the information to the user in seconds, and automate transactional 
functions such as booking leave. Willow uses artificial intelligence learning to get better at providing insights which help our people to 
unlock our collective intelligence both past and present.
In 2018, Willow will be rolled out to the entire company.
Cyber-security 
A cyber incident presents a risk to the integrity, availability 
and confidentiality of Woodside’s operations and corporate 
information. Globally, cyber-security threats remain persistent 
and adversarial with an ever-increasing level of frequency, 
sophistication and severity. Woodside manages a range of risk 
controls to ensure adequate protection, detection and response against cyber-attacks.
In 2017, we continued to enhance our cyber capabilities and established a 24x7 monitoring centre, improved our detection 
systems and completed a project aimed at ensuring our operational 
technology systems are secure. This is in addition to ongoing collaboration with government agencies, academia, industry peers 
and globally recognised service providers.
Partnerships
Woodside’s FutureLab continues to actively build an ecosystem 
of scientific and technological innovation through collaborations 
with research institutions, start-ups, entrepreneurs and adjacent 
leading industries.
CASE STUDY
World-first offshore battery 
In 2017, Woodside formalised an agreement with ABB Australia Pty Ltd under which a lithium-ion battery energy storage system will be installed on the Goodwyn A (GWA) platform in the second half of 2018.
The installation of the 1 megawatt hour battery will reduce the need for backup capacity (known as spinning reserve) in GWA platform’s power generation system. 
As a result, it is expected that the use of fuel gas will be reduced by more than 2,000 tonnes per year, allowing for incremental LNG production and delivering an estimated 5% decrease in the platform’s fuel gas emissions.OPERATING  
RESPONSIBLY
Working at our Pluto LNG plant.42  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017Our approach
In 2017, we continued to embed process safety through our 
line-led, risk-based approach. This places high value on visible 
leadership and operational discipline. Our focus has been on 
ensuring robust processes and tools are in place suitable for global application. Coupled with our ongoing competency 
program, this will enable effective management of process 
safety risks.
These were some of the major achievements in 2017:
 +Continuation of the Karratha Life Extension (KLE) Program 
to eliminate process safety vulnerabilities
 +PSM requirements embedded into value stream activities  
for Projects and Contracting and Procurement
 +Competency program extended to core KGP Brownfields 
contractors (refer to case study on page 43)
 +Process safety governance activities extended beyond 
assets to cover functional and operating unit-level forums
During 2017, an internal PSM audit was conducted. The audit confirmed a step change in performance had been achieved through the improvement project scopes completed in 2016. 
It was recognised that full PSM embedment will be a multi-
year journey. Leadership, governance and assurance will play a key role in achieving the long-term sustainable performance 
required to support Woodside’s growth strategy.
Throughout 2017, Woodside has shared its process safety 
journey and learnings at key industry forums and with other 
organisations, ranging from mining to public services, to support industry improvement in process safety.
Our performance
Woodside categorises and reports Process Safety Events (PSE) against the American Petroleum Institute’s Recommended 
Practice 754.There were zero Tier 1 or Tier 2 Loss of Primary Containment 
(LoPC) PSE recorded in 2017. 
Woodside remains an active member of the International Oil 
and Gas Producers (IOGP) Process Safety sub-committee and 
continues to report PSEs to support benchmarking of the global 
upstream industry.MAJOR INCIDENT  
PREVENTION 
The oil and gas industry involves working with flammable hydrocarbons at high pressure and it is vital 
these substances are handled safely. A major incident from a loss of containment event could have serious 
consequences for people, communities, environment, assets, and the company.
Our assets are at varying life-cycle stages and we are diligent in 
managing asset integrity across the portfolio of our structures, 
equipment, piping and wells to prevent a loss of containment.
Refer to Woodside’s Health, Safety, Environment and Quality 
Policy for more information  (www.woodside.com.au).Process safety management (PSM), a disciplined framework for managing integrity across the value chain and asset life-cycle, 
provides the mechanism to prevent a major incident. PSM remains 
critical to the oil and gas industry, and performance is subject to strong stakeholder scrutiny.
5
432
1
2018 FOCUS AREAS
Planned focus areas for PSM in 2018 include the following:
 +Further deployment of PSM requirements through the 
value chain to support global readiness
 +Expansion of governance and assurance processes to 
provide an integrated view of the full value chain
 +Continued extension of our competency and capability program to contractor and supplier activitiesMATERIAL ISSUE
Tier 1 and 2 PSE
The Tier 1 PSE in 2016 involved the release of stabilised condensate that was contained 
within the storage tank bund and was internally classified as low risk.2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Tier 1 PSE 0 0 0 1 0
Tier 2 PSE 4 2 2 1 0
2
11
4
2 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Operating responsibly  43FOCUS AREA 2:  
RISK IDENTIFICATION AND ASSESSMENT
 +Embedded operational risk assessment 
process to address emergent risks
 +Layers of protection analysis undertaken to improve equipment-level understanding and mitigation of risk
FOCUS AREA 3:  
RISK MANAGEMENT
 + Integrity envelope  
monitoring automated  
tool fully implemented
 + Upgraded maintenance  
processes enhancing asset  integrity management
 + Updated process safety requirements  
for management of contractors and suppliersPSM focus areas – improvements delivered in 2017
FOCUS AREA 1:  
PROCESS SAFETY LEADERSHIP
 +Process safety training and coaching 
program in place with 90% competency target achieved
 +Enhanced PSM dashboard for performance monitoring to support decision making
 +Embedded cross-company PSM governance forums
FOCUS AREA 4:  
REVIEW AND IMPROVEMENT
 +Refreshed incident investigation  process and reporting database  with quality improvements
 +Watson for HSEQ enabling data  analytics of incident history for  enhanced learning
 +Front-line tasks deployed through  InControl software program to assure  process safety performance
SUSTATINABILITY
INTEGRITY
DISICPLINEWORKING TOGETHERRESPECTEXCELLENCE
Follow rules
Speak upGet involvedBe mindfulCASE STUDY 
Collaborating with our contractors
This year we collaborated with KGP contractors, aiming to make process safety real and 
relevant to everyone. The Brownfields Delivery Team developed targeted training through 
an interactive classroom session combined with a site walk-around to consolidate learnings. 
Around 350 front-line contractors have completed the training.
This demonstrates how we are working together to continually strengthen long-term 
relationships with our key contractors. By investing in process safety capability, we are 
enhancing our capacity to work sustainably through having engaged people who can make 
the right decisions. Our KGP Brownfields workforce also shares the PSM vision – “We all own, understand and act to control process safety risks.”Large Brownfield 
contractor workforce
Targeted process  
safety training on site
Embed PSM vision  
by investing in process 
safety capability
CASE STUDY
Real-time integrity envelope monitoring
Integrity envelopes represent equipment design limits that we must stay within to ensure safe operations. To effectively manage the risk of operations, we need to know 
about excursions outside integrity envelopes in a timely manner and consistently 
and systematically respond. To achieve this, an integrity envelope monitoring tool has been implemented. The monitoring tool is owned by the users and provides 
automated real-time data with an operations-led response to excursions.
Process equipment 
has design limitsOperating  
outside design  
limits increases  
risk of failureOnline monitoring 
allows risk of 
failure to be actively 
managed
Integrity envelopeDesign limit
Design limitNormal  
operating limitSafety 
margin
Safety 
margin
Normal  
operating zoneIntegrity envelope excursion44  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017The oil and gas industry is at risk of major incidents given the nature of its work with flammable hydrocarbons 
operating at high pressure. Managing an unforeseen release of hydrocarbons from a pipeline (loss of containment) 
is a major focus area for Woodside given the potential consequences for our people, the environment, our assets, 
and the company. We therefore demand the highest standards in response capabilities. MAJOR  
INCIDENT  
RESPONSE 
While we maintain focus on prevention of incidents, we also 
actively review our major incident management and response 
capabilities. We ensure the reliability of our domestic gas 
supply to Western Australian power and industry customers.
Our approach
Woodside utilises an all-hazards approach to the management of major incidents via a process of prevent, 
prepare, respond, and recover, and adopts the principles 
of AIIMS (Australasian Inter-Agency Incident Management System) for our Crisis and Emergency Management 
Framework globally. 
In 2017, the focus for hydrocarbon spill preparedness was  
on our four key pillars:
 +Oil pollution emergency planning
 +Testing our spill response arrangements  
(training, drills and exercises)
 +Ensuring the right level of capability  
(equipment, specialist services)
 +Conformance, compliance and assurance
Our performance
In 2017, Woodside conducted these preparedness activities: 
 +510 Level 11 emergency response drills 
 +16 Level 22 emergency management exercises 
 +3 Level 33 crisis management exercises
Woodside also responded to 31 Level 1, 14 Level 2 and one 
Level 3 incidents. It is our practice to conduct reviews following 
potential and actual events to continuously improve our systems 
and capabilities.
We continue to manage our hydrocarbon-spill and emergency-management preparedness through a live dashboard that tracks 
compliance and performance, maintaining an outstanding rating 
of over 90% performance throughout 2017.
The Global Assurance Benchmarking Spill Preparednesss Rating 
(RETOS 2) is an international tool for self-assessment of oil-spill preparedness by companies, governments and regulators, and is supported by the International Maritime Organisation. 
It was applied for the fourth consecutive year, demonstrating 
sustained incremental improvement.
This year Woodside has turned its attention to assuring our non-operated ventures for spill preparedness. An assurance process focussing on operator capability, our ability to influence the 
operator and a risk assessment of the operator’s spill preparedness 
process has been applied to several of our non-operated ventures. This new assurance assessment process enables Woodside to work 
collaboratively with our partners to reduce exposure to this key risk.
1. Legislation, regulations, 
agreements
2. Oil-spill contingency planning
3. Response coordination
4. Health, safety and security
5. Operational response
6. Tracking, assessment and information management
7. Logistics
8. Financial and administrative 
considerations
9. Training and exercises
10. Sustainability and improvements21
3
410
59
68
7
020%40%60%80%Global Assurance Benchmark Spill 
Preparedness Rating (RETOS 2)MATERIAL ISSUE
2018 FOCUS AREAS
Opportunities for 2018 that go beyond global benchmarks:
 +Use of technology for improved efficiency on land  
and water responses
 +Data alignment for improved effectiveness of  
response strategies
 +Tactical planning for security logistics at spill events  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Operating responsibly  451. Level 1 emergency exercises test our initial response and involve exercising responsibilities of the on-site Incident Management Team.
2. Level 2 emergency exercises test our response coordination and control arrangements for larger incidents.
3. Level 3 crisis exercise test our strategic management of a major event impacting the company.
4. Comprehensive threat assessments are undertaken for countries and specific events based on business requirements, which includes assessing security threats such as 
terrorism, crime and regional stability amongst others. Overall country security risk ratings are determined by threat + consequence + likelihood. Countries are assigned risk ratings in line with the Woodside Risk Matrix.
Woodside conducting oil spill training offshore Dampier.
CASE STUDY
Reducing Woodside’s travel-risk profile 
In line with Woodside’s global growth strategy, we have seen a significant increase in international travel during 2017. A 
quarter of all international travel has been to countries that have been assessed4 to have an overall country risk rating of high 
or above. As such, our travel-risk profile has changed with Woodside personnel experiencing an increase in their exposure to 
security and geopolitical risks including terrorism, regional instability, civil unrest and crime. Threats such as terrorism pose a risk to Woodside personnel in high-risk locations as well as those normally deemed low or moderate in risk. As such, Woodside 
reviewed security arrangements in a range of countries in 2017. Travel management arrangements were further improved and 
steps have been taken to ensure that Woodside staff receive enhanced and specialised training. This includes minimising the risks to deployed Woodside personnel and their families as well as for Woodside staff travelling for business purposes.
10 % AMERICAS
52 % ASIA-PACIFIC21% EUROPE12% MIDDLE EAST
 in the number of 
international trips82 %
INCREASE
in trips to HIGH+ risk locations117 %
INCREASE
in individuals receiving travel security briefs335 %
INCREASE5% AFRICA46  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017HEALTH  
AND SAFETY 
PERFORMANCE 
Woodside’s health and safety (H&S) performance is essential to our business success and growth.  
We are committed to managing our activities to protect our people and our host communities.
Our approach
Woodside’s management system provides a comprehensive 
set of requirements for managing risks from all our activities. 
This includes H&S processes, guidelines and tools that have 
supported continuous improvement in performance.
Fundamental to our approach is Woodside’s Our Safety Culture framework, which identifies the behavioural expectations required 
at all levels of the organisation to build and sustain an effective 
safety culture.
Refer to Woodside’s Health, Safety, Environment and Quality Policy for more information
 (www.woodside.com.au).
Our performance
Our aim is to continuously improve towards a goal of industry leading H&S performance. Over the last five years, we have made 
significant headway, reducing our total recordable injury rate by 57%.
This year, in particular, we made progress on a number 
of fronts. For example, our strong H&S performance 
was recognised by industry peers when Woodside won 
the Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association (APPEA) Safety Excellence Award for 2017. 
The award recognised our approach to risk management, 
technology and innovation, workforce engagement and wider industry safety leadership.
We had a number of other highlights in 2017:
 +The introduction of our Perfect HSE Day concept to all areas 
of the business. The concept aims to help every employee 
understand that an incident-free workplace is achievable
 +The use of advanced data analytics to help identify  
H&S trends for better informed and effective decision  
making (refer to Watson for HSEQ case study on page 47) +The implementation of a project that provides training, support and additional resources to our health, safety and environment 
(HSE) representatives (refer to Empowering our HSE 
representatives case study on 
page 47 )
 +The use of safety perception surveys to assess our safety culture, identify opportunities for improvement and 
benchmark against peers
 +An improved medical management system that uses leading 
indicators and data to better monitor our health risks and controls
 +The introduction of an integrated travel management system to support Woodside’s global workforce. The new system aligns with best practice in travel risk management (refer to 
case study on page 45)
 +Improvements in our incident investigation processes focused on extracting organisational and human factors lessons and 
preventing reoccurrence
Woodside’s H&S performance is measured in part by total 
recordable injuries per million hours worked (TRIR). In 2017, 
Woodside’s TRIR was 1.29 which demonstrated a 21.3% improvement on 2016.
There were no work-related fatalities at Woodside operating 
sites in 2017, but there were eight lost time injuries, an increase of four compared with 2016. One of these injuries had the potential 
for a fatality as a result of a fall from height. All incidents were 
comprehensively investigated to identify root causes. Corrective action was taken in each case to prevent reoccurrence.
Refer to data table on page 65 for more information on performance metrics relating to H&S.MATERIAL ISSUE
Lost Time Injuries (LTI) and Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF)
2 4
13
3 0
14
3 3
15
3 1
16
8 0
17
 Contractor TRI  Employee TRI  Woodside TRIR0.43
1.290.430.61
0.220.28Total Recordable Injuries (TRI) and Total Recordable  
Injury Rate (TRIR)
 Contractor LTI  Employee LTI  Woodside LTIF175 12
16
6 17
158 16
14
7 19
137 35
1.641.711.903.00 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Operating responsibly  47CASE STUDY
Watson for Health, Safety, Environment 
and Quality (HSEQ)
A major investment this year in data analytics and 
cognitive computing led to valuable insights into our 
H&S performance. A key objective is to learn from 
incidents and prevent reoccurrence. Woodside has 30+ years of incident data, but found challenges around the 
ability to interrogate previous systems and draw insights 
from them. The Watson for HSEQ project, a partnership between Woodside and IBM, has enabled data searches 
to be fast, thorough, and in turn more valuable for 
decision making.
The project delivered Watson for HSEQ – an intelligent 
research assistant with these capabilities:
 +Searches over 500,000 records from internal and external data sets
 +Unites multiple systems to show a holistic picture relating to an event or equipment failure
 +Presents results in a way that is easily explored and understood
Watson for HSEQ is available to all employees and during 2017 has supported numerous risk assessments 
and incident investigations. Feedback has been positive, 
and the system will be developed to add further value. Woodside has also shared project lessons and insights at 
a number of industry forums.2018 FOCUS AREAS
We aim to become an industry leader in H&S performance by 
driving improvement in the following strategic focus areas: 
 +Embedding an interdependent H&S culture where team members take ownership for their own safety and that of others
 +Building an even stronger capability in H&S, focusing on leadership development across the business
 +Managing H&S risks to our business, with a particular focus on contractor management and clearer rules to 
support compliance
 +Using data analytics to provide deeper insights and 
inform future plans
 +Collaborating with peers through industry forums, such as APPEA and the International Association of Oil & Gas 
Producers, to further improve performance
CASE STUDY
Empowering our health, safety and environment (HSE) representatives 
The requirement to identify and support HSE representatives in our business is a regulatory expectation and key focus area for 
Woodside. During 2017 a project was initiated to provide greater role clarity, fit-for-purpose resources and improve support for our 
HSE representatives across the company. 
The initiative was introduced at two forums in 2017, where over 70 representatives from across all operational sites gathered to 
analyse and refine Woodside’s HSE strategy and performance, and to reinforce the importance of building a strong HSE culture.
Employees participating in one of our two HSE representatives forums in 2017.21 %TRIR  
improvement  
on 201648  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017MANAGING OUR 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACTS
Woodside recognises that strong environmental performance is essential to our success and continued growth.
Our approach
The Woodside HSEQ Policy underpins our aspiration of sustained 
delivery of leading HSEQ performance to protect our people, 
our communities and our environment. We have an established 
methodology to identify impacts and risks, and assess potential consequences of our activities. This methodology mandates that 
a hierarchy of controls be applied to management measures 
that are identified. This approach means we identify ways to eliminate or avoid an impact before we consider ways of 
reducing or minimising it.
As we grow our international portfolio, we are focused on 
upholding our standards and applying our approach to 
environmental management consistently across our  
global operations.
Refer to Woodside’s Health, Safety, Environment and Quality 
Policy for more information  (www.woodside.com.au).
Our performance
We recorded one environmental incident, which occurred at the 
KGP in April 2017. This was reported to the local regulator as part of 
our licence conditions. It was of minor environmental consequence.
Refer to the Climate Change section on page 39 for more 
information on flaring intensity, fuel intensity and emissions-
intensity performance.
Waste
Woodside seeks to reduce waste and improve resource 
efficiency in our design and operating practices.
We set minimum performance requirements for the handling, storage and transport of waste. A 41% decrease in waste over 
the past four years is attributable to 
improved contractor 
processes and a focus on increasing recycling . Additionally, 
Woodside internally aspires to recycle 50% of all waste from producing assets. An internal reporting process tracks waste 
disposal and recycling.
Pluto carbon offset
Pluto LNG is Australia’s largest carbon-offset project through 
a forest carbon sink as part of an A$25 million agreement over 
50 years with CO2 Australia. An A$75 million extension to the 
planting program began in 2009 and finished in 2012. In total over 42.2 million Blue Mallee trees have been planted in over 17,125 hectares. Beyond offsetting tonnes of carbon 
emissions, the environmental benefits of the program include 
reduction of erosion, lowering of salinity levels in the groundwater, provision of wildlife corridors between protected areas and the 
creation of new habitats for species such as the endangered 
Splendid Parrot.
Fresh-water use
Woodside’s onshore operations, which consist of the KGP, the 
King Bay Supply Base and the Pluto LNG plant, are located 
in water-stressed areas.1 Even though our operations are not intensive consumers of water, and our offshore facilities have 
the capacity to desalinate, we recognise the importance of 
responsible water management. 
The KGP, King Bay Supply Base and Pluto LNG Plant have 
water-efficiency management plans in place. The plans include 
actions to improve water efficiency with much of the focus on reducing leaks. In 2017, we reduced our water use by 5% in 
absolute terms.
Decommissioning
Decommissioning is an intrinsic part of the life cycle of any oil 
and gas asset and includes the final disposition of an asset when 
it reaches the end of production. Decommissioning of an asset 
involves detailed planning. As an operator we will develop a customised decommissioning plan for each asset that identifies 
an appropriate decommissioning option, meeting regulatory 
requirements and balancing environmental, safety, social and economic factors.
In order to understand the impact of leaving infrastructure in situ 
as opposed to removing it from the environment, Woodside is 
undertaking environmental research with the University of Western 
Australia and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO).
Recognising the likely increase in decommissioning activities in the future, Woodside is active in industry committees to 
develop guidance for responsible decommissioning practices 
and working with regulators to ensure that decommissioning activities are completed safely, effectively and with least 
environmental impact.
Refer to data table on page 66 for more information on 
performance metrics relating to Environment.
1. According to the United Nations indicator for water-stressed areas. This is based on external global data sets used by the indicator determining there is less than  
1,700 m3 of water available per person per year in this region. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Operating responsibly  49CASE STUDY
BirdLife Australia Partnership 
We recognise the significance of coastal habitats and 
surrounding waters in supporting bird population survival, 
focusing on feeding, resting and breeding. 
In 2016, Woodside entered a three-year partnership agreement 
with BirdLife Australia to support the migratory shorebirds 
from Dampier to Geum Estuary in Republic of Korea (RoK).
The Geum Estuary is one of the most important sites for shorebirds in the Yellow Sea region and a key refuelling 
habitat for migratory shorebirds that travel on East 
Asian Australasian Flyway between Australia and the northern hemisphere.To date, the program has achieved these outcomes:
 +Established a baseline for shorebird monitoring at the 
Geum Estuary
 + Identified active and potential shorebird roost sites and 
feeding areas
 + Delivered a Migratory Shorebird Monitoring Tool and 
local training workshops
We continue to support the program in Australia and to date have sponsored Indigenous rangers and university shorebird 
experts to be involved to share their knowledge and expertise. 
We have also sponsored the training of the Murujuga Land and Sea Unit to gather shorebird data in the Murujuga National 
Park within the Dampier Archipelago (located near Karratha) 
and partnered with the rangers, Pilbara Ports Authority and local industry to host a community bird-watching event in the 
Murujuga National Park.Biodiversity and partnerships
Strong partnerships, sound research and transparency are the key elements of Woodside’s approach to the environment.
These are some of our key environmental partnerships:
MYANMAR
Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS)
Title: Identifying and mapping the occurrence 
of fishing activity and marine wildlife along the Rakhine and Ayeyarwady coast, Myanmar.
Duration: 2017–2018.
Objective: The project aims to develop 
a deeper understanding of the fishing community and marine wildlife occurrence 
along Myanmar’s western coastline.
Outcomes: Undertaking literature reviews and 
community field-based interviews of the local fishing villages to understand coastal fisheries along the Rakhine and Ayeyarwady coast.
Fauna & Flora International (FFI)
Title: Coastal Biodiversity Partnership. 
Duration: 2016–2019.
Objective: Capacity building for coastal 
biodiversity assessment to support the 
understanding and management of coastal 
biodiversity in Ayeyarwady Region.
Outcomes: Training in internationally 
recognised marine survey methods for staff 
and students from three Myanmar universities. 
Undertaking field surveys of coral reef, 
mangrove, seagrass and bird communities along 200 km of coastline.AUSTRALIA
Western Australian Museum (WAM)
Title:  Woodside Marine Biodiversity Fund.
Duration: 1998–ongoing.
Objective: Understand biodiversity of marine 
environments in north-west Australia.
Outcome: Since 1998, Woodside has partnered 
with the Western Australian Museum to 
understand the biodiversity of north-west 
Australia in the Dampier Archipelago and  
the Kimberley regions. In that time, the  
Museum has undertaken 20 field surveys over  
2,500 km of coast and has documented more 
than 55,000 different plant and animal species. The significance and impact of this partnership has been substantial, including the creation of the invaluable Woodside Collection, an international biodiversity specimen reference collection.
Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS)
Title: Woodside AIMS Partnership.
Duration: 1993–ongoing.Objective: Collection of scientific data to 
document the condition and status of coral reef systems and marine life, including research on the impacts of coral bleaching and recovery, in and around our operational areas.
Outcomes:
 Co-in vested support for improving 
our long-term ecological understanding of 
offshore reef systems of Western Australia. AIMS has produced over 80 peer-reviewed scientific publications from Woodside-related studies. AUSTRALIA AND KOREA
BirdLife Australia
Title:  Migratory Shorebirds from Dampier to 
Geum Estuary in Republic of Korea (RoK).
Duration:  2016–2019.
Objective:  The long-term conservation plan 
is to secure World Heritage Site status for Geum Estuary and support the development of nature-based tourism. The program is forging closer working relationships with stakeholders in Australia and RoK, collating and gathering data to enable decision 
making and promoting the importance of 
protecting the Geum Estuary.
Outcomes: Outcomes are described in the 
case study below.
Gathering shorebird data in the Geum Estuary.50  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017ENGAGING 
COMMUNITIES AND 
MANAGING IMPACTS
Woodside engages with a wide range of stakeholders in the communities where we have a presence and 
invests in understanding and managing actual and potential impacts from our activities. 
Our approach
Our Sustainable Communities Policy and communities framework 
provide a consistent global approach to identifying and managing 
stakeholder interests and concerns. 
In 2017, Woodside actively engaged with communities in Perth, 
Karratha, Roebourne and Broome in Western Australia, and 
Myanmar, Senegal and other international locations in support 
of our business activities. This included dedicated in-country community liaison personnel. We take time to understand 
community issues, respond to queries and manage community 
investments in support of positive community outcomes.
Refer to Woodside’s Sustainable Communities Policy,  
for more information (www.woodside.com.au).
Meaningful engagement
Throughout 2017, Woodside held regular meetings with key 
stakeholders in Karratha and Exmouth, listening to community 
perspectives and providing updates on key Woodside activities. 
Our Karratha Community Liaison Group (CLG) held four meetings and in Exmouth, three CLG meetings were held. We reinvigorated 
our Roebourne presence, with the appointment of a senior 
Indigenous affairs adviser based in the community. 
We also initiated relationships with our Perth host Indigenous community, meeting regularly with representatives of the local 
Indigenous community to discuss cultural recognition of our 
new headquarters building (refer to case study on page 55). In December 2017, our Karratha community relations team 
moved to a new office in central Karratha, demonstrating our 
long-term commitment to the community.
We continued our consultation with communities in Myanmar in support of our planned drilling activities. These engagements 
helped to build our knowledge of local livelihoods and inform our 
understanding of the potential impacts of our planned activities. Feedback confirmed that community activities, such as fishing, 
are predominantly located in nearshore waters and are unlikely to 
be impacted by our offshore drilling activities. In 2017, Woodside became development lead for the SNE field development in Senegal and plans to transition to operator in 
2018. The environmental baseline survey for the development was 
completed during the year and the Environmental Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) process commenced. In support of the ESIA, 
Woodside expects to engage local communities in the first half of 
2018 to understand the potential impacts of the development. 
Social research and impact assessment
Across our host communities of Karratha, Roebourne and Exmouth, we finalised in 2017 our integrated social baseline studies 
comprising bi-annual community perception surveys and tri-annual 
social impact assessments. 
Some key recommendations for enhancing positive impacts included improving communication and engagement, and 
strengthening pathways to employment and contracts in 
Exmouth, Karratha and Roebourne. These recommendations have been included in social impact management plans. 
Key community issues 
Local content is a key focus area for Woodside. We continue to look for ways to enhance local employment and contracting 
opportunities in the communities where we are active. During 
2017 we spent A$28.7 million with 58 local suppliers in the Karratha region (refer to page 56 for more details).
Accommodation in Karratha remains a key issue for our 
workforce and the local community.
The non-renewal of Woodside’s lease for Gap Ridge Village workers 
accommodation facility has resulted in a shortage of quality short-term accommodation for our turnaround and Karratha Life 
Extension Project refurbishment and maintenance campaign 
workforces. In response, Woodside is proposing to redevelop the existing Bay Village site to deliver a new 700-bed, rebuilt, well-
integrated, modern Karratha workers’ accommodation facility to 
support our ongoing operations in Karratha. 
Woodside’s occupancy rates across our portfolio of Pluto and 
North West Shelf houses was 85% at the end of 2017 (refer to 
case study on page 57 for details of the Karratha housing 
refurbishment program). Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Operating responsibly  51Grievance mechanism
Despite our concerted efforts to build strong relationships in communities in which we operate, we acknowledge that concerns about 
our activities may arise from time to time. 
Our community grievance mechanism procedure provides a framework for receiving, responding to and closing our grievances 
or concerns from community stakeholders in a timely, fair and consistent manner. A review of the procedure in 2017 identified an 
opportunity to better define our grievance channels and ensure the procedure is consistent with international standards. This work 
will be completed in 2018.
Woodside received seven grievances in 2017, of which six have been resolved. The majority of these related to dust from the 
decommissioning of the original Bay Village workers accommodation facility in Karratha. Woodside is working to resolve the 
outstanding grievance, which relates to local sub-contracting opportunities. 
CASE STUDY
Investing in Karratha infrastructure 
Since 2009, Woodside has invested A$19.4 million on behalf of the NWS Project and Pluto LNG in 
support of key community infrastructure developments in Karratha, Western Australia, with a further 
A$1.8 million committed. Industry and government have collaborated on 10 infrastructure projects, 
which have focused on improving amenity, child care, health and education. 
The investment has been instrumental in supporting 
Karratha’s transformation from resources town to thriving 
regional city. Nine of the infrastructure projects are now 
complete. The final major community infrastructure project, to which the NWS Project is contributing A$3.2 million, is the Red Earth Arts Precinct. The A$55 million precinct, 
due to be completed in mid-2018, will include a 450-seat 
theatre, library, outdoor event space and rooftop terrace.
Aerial view of City of Karratha, home to Woodside’s NWS Project and Pluto LNG.52  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017
Woodside has sponsored the Perth FRINGE WORLD Festival, the third largest of its kind in the world, since it began in 2012. In 2016 
we introduced the Homegrown Heroes Program, which helps shine a spotlight on Western Australia’s talented artists and performers.CREATING  
SHARED VALUE 54  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017We continually work to strengthen our relationships with Indigenous communities in the places we are active.
Our approach
In 2017, we engaged with Indigenous host communities in three 
regions of Western Australia: the Pilbara where our onshore assets 
are located, the Kimberley where we maintain a regional office 
and the City of Perth, where our head office is located. In each of these places the subject matter of our engagements included 
investments in children’s wellbeing, arts, education, and pathways 
to employment not only with Woodside but in a wide range of career possibilities.
We maintain site-specific engagements with our Pilbara host 
community about heritage management and various matters that 
are set out in land use agreements. 
The Pluto LNG Plant and NWS Project operate in an area of national 
and global significance because of the quality and abundance of 
Aboriginal engraved rock art. Woodside participated in the Senate 
Committee’s Inquiry concerning the protection of Aboriginal rock art of the Burrup Peninsula. Furthermore, Woodside is one of three 
organisations committed to undertaking field monitoring, analysis 
and reporting under the auspices of the Burrup Rock Art Monitoring 
Program (BRAMP). 
Our engagements with Noongar Whadjuk people in the Perth area 
deepened during 2017 as discussions about cultural recognition for 
the site of Woodside’s new headquarters have progressed (refer to 
case study on page 55).
In situations where Woodside is a non-operator joint venture participant, we follow relevant engagement procedures and 
protocols to manage risk and ensure that all commitments 
made to affected Indigenous peoples are delivered. For example, we are a 50% joint venture participant in the 
proposed Kitimat LNG project in British Columbia, Canada. 
The Kitimat LNG project has commenced delivery of a number of economic and social benefits to First Nations groups with 
whom a number of agreements have been made, including 
employment and investment in skills training.
During 2017, none of our projects or activities involved resettlement or relocation of Indigenous Peoples.
Refer to Woodside’s Indigenous Communities Policy  for more information
 (www.woodside.com.au).Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP)
Delivering on the activities that underpin our public commitments is only part of our story. Our 2016–2020 RAP reflects a shift in our 
focus from activities to creating and measuring tangible outcomes. 
In 2017, we embedded our RAP outcomes framework using 
baseline data and relevant indicators to measure improvements 
in our respect for Indigenous culture and people, the effects of 
our relationships, and the social and economic opportunities we are helping to create. 
Focusing on outcomes ensures we embrace a continuous improvement mindset. For example, we have set ourselves goals 
for increasing our Indigenous employment and our contracting 
with Indigenous business, as well as improving our workforce’s awareness and understanding of Indigenous cultures. These 
changes take time and there are challenges, but early indications 
suggest that our outcomes measurement approach, coupled with a continuous improvement model, is resulting in significant 
change in the targeted areas.
Refer to Woodside’s 2016–2020 Reconciliation Action Plan 
Report for more information (www.woodside.com.au).INDIGENOUS 
ENGAGEMENT 
2018 FOCUS AREAS
 +Ensuring our Australian performance and experience is 
tailored appropriately to successfully engage with an 
increasing number and diversity of communities globallyRAP OUTCOMES
34 % INCREASE   
in number of contracts with Indigenous businesses1
2.5  FOLD INCREASE   
in Indigenous employment with our suppliers
EIGHT   
Indigenous graduates commencing in 2018 (8% of intake)
TRIPLED
cultural learning participation since 2016
LOWEST
recorded voluntary turnover of Indigenous employment
1. Includes direct and indirect contracts, exceeding the 5% target. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Creating shared value   55CASE STUDY
Recognising the significance of the land, the people and the stories that bring it to life
Mia Yellagonga, the site of Woodside’s future headquarters in Perth, is a significant site for Traditional 
Custodians, the Noongar Whadjuk people.
It is located on an historic site in Perth where Whadjuk 
elder, Yellagonga, invited British Captain James Stirling onto 
Whadjuk country. The site is the location of a natural spring and was an important hunting and camping ground that has 
always been, and continues to be, rich in cultural significance.
Respectful of the Whadjuk people’s connection to this site, a broad Woodside team is working with the 
host community to embed cultural knowledge and 
understanding in our workplace.
With the encouragement and support of our CEO Peter Coleman, a number of our Indigenous employees started 
working in mid-2016 on concepts to recognise and embed 
Indigenous culture in our future headquarters. In 2017, a small group of external Noongar Whadjuk advisers was established to work alongside our Indigenous employees and to ensure that approval for our concepts to recognise culture followed appropriate protocol with traditional owners.
Our process led to us reaching out to the South West Aboriginal 
Land and Sea Council to engage the broader Noongar Whadjuk 
community. The Whadjuk community endorsed in-principle 
employee concepts, as well as suggesting additional ideas: two site cleansings (pre-fitout and pre-occupation), naming of our 
future campus, and nomination of two representatives to work 
with us to support delivery.
Mia Yellagonga provides an opportunity to design-in cultural respect and knowledge that we have been fortunate to have 
shared with us. Mia Yellagonga is more than somewhere to 
work. It embeds the significance of the people and land to help keep the stories alive.
Traditional cleansing ceremony held on site at Mia Yellagonga in June 2017.56  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017SUPPLY  
CHAIN
Improvement of our supply chain sustainability is one of Woodside Contracting and Procurement’s 
strategic imperatives.
Our approach
Woodside is at the heart of a large and complex network of 
suppliers underpinning our operations and forming our overall 
supply chains. 
Improving health, safety, environmental, social and governance 
performance within our supply chains results in significant 
business benefits by improving compliance, reducing risk 
and increasing positive impact on our stakeholders and the communities we operate in. 
In 2017, Woodside engaged a total of 2,037 suppliers and spent 
approximately A$2.9 billion across its operations.
We have a number of processes in place to ensure the quality 
and functioning of our supply chains, and to identify and 
mitigate risks along the value chain. Our Supplier Code of Business Conduct details what we expect from our suppliers 
and contractors to maintain Woodside’s ethical values and 
operational standards. 
We have a standardised approach to developing category and contracting strategies, supplier selection and evaluation, 
contract and supplier management and procure to pay activities.
Our processes ensure that supply-chain risks are identified and 
quantified with appropriate controls and performance measures 
included in contract and supplier management plans.
Anti-bribery and corruption due-diligence processes ensure 
appropriate screening, evaluation and monitoring of all third 
parties with whom we do business.  
Our performance
Major achievements in 2017 included the following:
 +Worked with external experts to develop a framework for the 
management of human rights in our supply chains, including 
the reinforced Supplier Code of Business Conduct, new controls 
and management activities, and an initial priority ranking by risk level of our suppliers. Roll out of the framework will commence 
in 2018
 +Signed the Business Council of Australia’s Australian Supplier Payment Code, committing Woodside to a collaborative 
approach to supplier payment challenges, including paying eligible small businesses within 30 days. This will be implemented 
during 2018 +Carried out three supplier forums focused on Indigenous 
employment and business engagement, to share lessons learnt and best practice with more than 64 distinct suppliers attending
 +Focused on participation of Indigenous-owned businesses within Australia with 29 contracts being delivered, which 
included sub-contracts issued by our major suppliers, as well 
as direct contracts with Woodside. This represents a 16% increase on the cumulative number of contracts awarded in 
the period from 2011 to 2016 against a target of 5%
 +Decommissioned Gap Ridge Village workers accomodation facility with Indigenous participation of 37% by site hours and 
25% of sub-contracting, as well as a recycling/salvaging rate of materials of 99.5% by weight
 +Enhanced international readiness by working with external experts to assess capability and capacity of local Senegalese 
industry. This helps to ensure the SNE Phase 1 development 
has appropriate local content plans (Woodside’s and our direct suppliers) to support tangible and meaningful participation of 
Senegalese suppliers in procurement activities
 +Implemented a competency and learning program for key 
internal stakeholders, including mandatory training on anti-
bribery and corruption, as well as local content, health and 
safety and engagement with Indigenous Peoples
 +Implemented upgraded anti-bribery and corruption due-diligence management including greater insight into ownership of third 
parties, and introduced continuous monitoring
 +Conducted a supplier sustainability audit leading to 
improvement recommendations related to procedures 
supporting their supplier’s human rights statement
2018 FOCUS AREAS
 +Implementing our newly developed framework for the 
management of human rights in our supply chain
 +Increasing use of data analytics and system automation to reduce sustainability risk, in particular in the anti-bribery and corruption area
 +Targeted training for company representatives, management 
and administrative personnel to enhance compliance
 +Continue to work with suppliers to deliver employment 
and business opportunities to Indigenous Australians Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Creating shared value   571. Woodside spend under management by Contracting & Procurement. Shown in Woodside’s capacity as operator (includes spend on behalf of joint venture participants). 
Summarised by location of supplier’s registered offices.
7.0 % EUROPE
0.9 % NORTH AMERICA
2.7 % AFRICA
82.0 % AUSTRALIA7.4 % ASIA% OF A$3.8B SPEND  
BY CONTINENT1
CASE STUDY
Karratha housing refurbishment: a local content and Indigenous business success story
In August 2017, Woodside and the NWS Project participants embarked on stage one of a  
A$55 million refurbishment program of their residential properties in Karratha.
It is expected that about 400 properties will be upgraded 
during the multi-year program, which is aimed at ensuring an 
appropriate standard of housing for Woodside employees.
From the outset, the project strategy was to maximise local 
sub-contractor and supplier engagement and achieve high 
levels of Indigenous employment and training. 
The head contractors for the project are Pindan and majority 
Indigenous-owned H&M Tracey, which are targeting sourcing 80% of goods and services from within the City of Karratha and targeting over 30% Indigenous participation through 
training and employment.
So far, these targets have been exceeded. More than 15 local 
sub-contractors have been engaged. Across the program, 
 
17 Aboriginal people have been employed, with nine participating in an apprenticeship or training program.
Employees of construction company H&M Tracey, working with Pindan to refurbish Karratha residential property for Woodside.58  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017SOCIAL  
INVESTMENT 
Woodside’s social investment strategy aligns business and community needs to create shared and 
sustainable value in the communities where we are active.
Our approach
In 2017, Woodside’s social investment strategy aimed to 
improve knowledge, build resilience and create opportunities 
to enhance the capacity and capability of our Australian and 
international communities.
Collaboration has been key to Woodside’s social investment 
approach throughout the year; our stakeholders are many and varied, and we value the unique experiences and needs of the 
diverse communities where we do business.
We continue to phase our social investment programs 
in accordance with where in the value chain we are and 
the impacts of our activities. We seek to support host 
communities as early as the acquisition and exploration phase of project development, and this continues throughout 
our business value chain where long-term partnerships are 
formed. Our social investment programs are in addition to 
land access and other mandatory community commitments.To achieve our social investment aims, our 2017 social 
investment portfolio focused on innovation and technology, 
early childhood development, indigenous outcomes and our 
pioneering employee volunteering and participation programs.
We provide support to host communities and partners’ 
organisations through three funding mechanisms:
 +Philanthropy
 + Woodside Development Fund
 + Strategic shared value partnerships 
The funding mechanisms allow Woodside to provide support 
based on community needs.
Refer to Woodside’s Social Investment Framework for more information (www.woodside.com.au).
LONG-TERM COMMITMENTS
 +Woodside’s A$20 million investment over 10 years in early childhood development continues to enable 
children in Australia and overseas to achieve their full 
life-potential. Our partnership with Save the Children is helping improve health and development outcomes 
for Indigenous children in communities on the Dampier 
Peninsula in northern Western Australia. This is in addition to partnerships in Australia, Myanmar and Senegal.
 +Within the Innovation and Technology portfolio, Woodside’s A$10 million investment in the University 
of Western Australia’s Engineering Zone (E-Zone) 
will foster academic excellence and growing research capability, by creating world-class infrastructure 
and resources for years to come. During 2017, the 
design phase for the student hub (phase 1 of E-Zone)was completed and construction tenders closed with 
contract award in early 2018. +Woodside is also proud to report employee engagement 
in volunteering activities has continued to rise in 2017, 
resulting in positive benefits to both our employees and 
the community
 +Our long-term investment in education outcomes for Pilbara students through the Woodside-operated NWS Project has seen a positive trend in the number 
of students graduating high school. Since 2007 the 
Karratha Education Initiative has supported families to remain living in Karratha longer by providing high-
quality educational opportunities for their children (refer 
to case study on page 61). In addition, the Roebourne Education Initiative (REI) provides supplementary 
resources to enhance learning opportunities for both 
students and teachers at Roebourne District High School and has resulted in attendance increasing from 34% in 
2015 to 49% in 2016, with further improvement in 2017. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Creating shared value   59Our contribution
In 2017, Woodside contributed A$17.9 million to communities 
across the globe, including from Perth and the Pilbara region 
in Western Australia to Myanmar and Senegal. This was in 
addition to A$6.5 million leveraged spend,¹ representing the total contribution Woodside is involved in through our joint 
ventures, employees and government funding partnerships.
Philanthropy 
Woodside donated 16% of its social investment fund in 2017 to 
volunteering (value of staff time), small-scale community grants 
and emergency relief contributions. This included a combined 
A$100,000 donation supporting relief activities providing assistance to displaced people in Rakhine State and Bangladesh. 
In addition to this monetary investment, a total of 1,535 Woodside 
employees volunteered their time, equating to 10,455 hours aimed at supporting 75 community organisations and 68 schools. This 
equated to A$2.26 million worth of assistance to communities.Woodside Development Fund
Partnerships that shared a common goal to improve early childhood 
development outcomes accounted for 11% of social investment with 
programs delivered in Australia, Myanmar and Senegal. 
Strategic share value partnerships 
In 2017, 73% of our social investment was provided to support 
initiatives to achieve mutual benefits and shared value with 
our host communities. More information on our strategic 
partnerships is on page 60.
Our 2016–2020 Strategy 
To support the SDGs, we have aligned our social contribution by focusing on three themes: opportunities, knowledge and resilience.
As we look towards renewing our strategy in 2020, we will continue to refine our social investment approach to understand how our 
programs can further support Woodside’s SDGs focus areas.
An outcomes management framework will also be developed 
to understand, measure and report on the impact of our social 
investment program. This will utilise insights and learnings 
gained during development of our RAP outcomes framework.
Award recognition
The following Woodside partnerships were recognised in 2017: 
 +World Petroleum Council Excellence Awards winner for Social Responsibility2 attributed to Woodside’s Science and 
Technology Collaboration community education and outreach program
 +Western Australian Coastal Conference and Awards Industry and Community Collaboration Award winner for the 
Conservation Volunteers Australia partnership
 +Western Australian Arts and Community Partnership Honours winner for the West Australian Youth Orchestra partnershipVOLUNTEERING
4 2 .7 %
of the workforce participated  
in corporate volunteering10, 400+
employee hours = A$2.3M value in 
time; a 65% increase from 201675
organisations and 68 schools directly  
benefited from our volunteering
1. This is the measure of any additional resources contributed to a community organisation or activity that come from sources other than Woodside. For example; Woodside’s joint 
venture participants, government and Woodside employees.
2. Awarded in the Small to Medium Companies category.WOODSIDE SOCIAL INVESTMENT A$M
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017TOTAL SPEND
10.06
12.06
13.89
15.70
17.90CANADA AND 
THE AMERICAS
0.00
0.00
0.40
0.30
0.21AUSTRALIA
9.9
12.3
12.7
14.5
16.1ASIA-PACIFIC
0.16
0.30
0.63
0.75
1.350.08AFRICA
0.000.00
0.05
0.21UK AND 
EUROPE
0.00
0.00
0.08
0.030.10
Bar graphs are not scaled relative to each region.60  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017PARTNERSHIPS
ARTS, CULTURE AND COMMUNITY
Overview Partnerships
Each year Woodside supports a number of local arts and cultural organisations aimed 
at creating opportunities, building local capability and capacity, and contributing to the 
cultural vibrancy of the communities in which we operate. 
We also partner with local Indigenous organisations to build and share knowledge on heritage 
and cultural values and support outcomes that will have a lasting impact in the community.
ENVIRONMENT
Overview Partnerships
We have a long history of collaborating with government-funded and non-government 
research organisations, academic institutions and scientific experts. The scientific data 
and knowledge collected as a result of our environmental partnerships assists us to understand the environments in which we operate, evaluate potential impacts and be 
informed to make the right decisions on environmental management. We share this 
knowledge transparently with governments, regulators and communities to support better environmental outcomes more broadly.
Refer to page 49 for information on our key environmental partnerships, including 
our long standing partnerships with Western Australian Museum (WAM) and Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS).
TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION
Overview Partnerships
Woodside proudly supports innovation and technology programs to make positive contributions to the social and scientific challenges facing the Australian and 
international community. 
The Woodside FutureLab collaboration is actively building an ecosystem of scientific 
and technological innovation through partnerships with research institutions, start-ups, 
entrepreneurs and adjacent leading industries. 
Working sustainably is one of our core values and we recognise the vital role strategic partnerships have in 
assisting the communities in which we operate to be more sustainable.
We are proud to partner with a wide variety of organisations and 
support programs that contribute to a more innovative, inclusive 
and resilient community and environment. SDG 17 Partnerships for 
the Goals emphasises the importance of collaboration and is one of our key SDGs.We have an extensive range of partnerships, with the table below providing a brief overview of some of our key focus areas 
and examples of the organisations we work with to achieve 
sustainable outcomes. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Creating shared value   61EARLY CHILDHOOD AND EDUCATION
Overview Partnerships
We collaborate with non-profit organisations, businesses, schools, academic institutions 
and government to create and enable conditions for improved early childhood 
development through to primary, secondary and tertiary educational opportunities.
During children’s early years, we focus on improving health, productivity and participation 
outcomes through the Woodside Development Fund programs, helping to create a 
brighter future for children and our communities.
We are committed to promoting student learning in critical subject areas such as science, technology, engineering and maths that support our business, our industry and wider society.
Helping young people to reach their full potential provides an improved return to both 
individuals and community in education, health, employment, economic and social outcomes.
Refer to our website for more information on the organisations that Woodside supports (www.woodside.com.au).
CASE STUDY
Karratha Education Initiative (KEI)
Through the Woodside-operated NWS Project, 
we are delivering improved education outcomes 
for high school students in Karratha. 
Karratha is home to the Woodside-operated Pluto LNG 
and the NWS Project. Located 1,500 km from the Western 
Australian capital city of Perth, it is one of the most remote 
communities in the world. In 2007, the remoteness of our operations and the quality of secondary education were 
identified by our employees and stakeholders as significant 
issues for the sustainability and resilience of the Karratha community as well as the attraction and retention of 
qualified gas industry personnel. Statistics showed the 
quality of education, particularly upper secondary, was a major influence on employees and families leaving Karratha.
The Karratha Education Initiative (KEI), funded by the NWS 
Project, delivers high-quality educational opportunities for high school students, and professional development 
opportunities for their teachers. The program aims to bridge 
the gap between opportunities and resources available to Pilbara students compared to metropolitan-based students. 
To implement the initiative, the NWS Project participants 
work with St Luke’s College, Karratha Senior High School, the Catholic Education Office and the Western Australian 
Department of Education. 
Since 2007, A$9.95 million has been invested by the NWS 
Project in the KEI. Over the period 2008–2015, we saw a 
positive trend in the number of students graduating. The percentage of students attempting an Australian Tertiary 
Admission Rank (ATAR) and achieving at least one subject 
score of 65/100 increased from 10% in 2008 to 43% in 2015.
The KEI has introduced key programs including career 
awareness, ATAR revision seminars, online tutoring, subject 
advice and a primary-to-secondary school transition program. 
Through the KEI, both established and trainee teachers have 
the opportunity to access targeted professional development, 
and participate in annual teacher’s practice scholarships.
KEI Maths Camp event held at the Karatha Gas Plant visitor centre.
62  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG S)
SDG Woodside Activity Page
When used in replacement of oil, coal or biomass, natural gas can reduce emissions and improve air quality 37
The Karratha Education Initiative (KEI) delivers high-quality educational opportunities for high school students, and professional development 
opportunities for their teachers58, 61
The Woodside Development Fund supports organisations that provide quality education opportunities to children 59
Woodside sponsors a variety of educational scholarships 30, 61
Executive and senior female representation have continued to increase to 23.4% and 17.5% respectively 30, 31
Every tonne of CO2 emitted by producing LNG reduces global emissions by 4 tonnes where this LNG displaces coal 35, 38
Woodside is a signatory to The World Bank Zero Routine Flaring Initiative by 2030 from oil assets and joined CO2CRC 38
Energy efficiency targets: upgraded turbine air filters at the Pluto LNG Plant resulted in higher production, equivalent to a  
20,000 tCO2e per year emission saving, which is 5% of the energy efficiency improvements we expect to achieve by 202039
We increased our directly employed Indigenous workforce to 113 employees (3.24% of the total workforce) 30
We achieved a 21% reduction in TRIR (1.29 in 2017 compared with 1.64 in 2016) 46
Woodside’s Human Rights Policy was endorsed by Woodside’s Board in October 2017, and details the principles by which we operate; development of a framework for the management of human rights in our supply chain24, 56
Woodside has invested A$19.4 million on behalf of the NWS Project and Pluto LNG in support of key community infrastructure developments in Karratha51
The construction of Pluto LNG truck-loading facility is a key step towards creating a LNG supply chain for the Pilbara; installation of a battery on the Goodwyn A Platform is expected to deliver an estimated 5% decrease in the platform’s CO2 emissions38, 40
The research programs Woodside collaborates on with organisations, such as Fauna & Flora and WCS in Myanmar, contribute to the continued development of scientific knowledge and data49
Our internal inclusion and diversity groups – Spectrum, Gender Equality Matters, Man Up and Woodside Reconciliation Community – promote the inclusion of all30
Our Reconciliation Action Plan outlines our commitments to Indigenous outcomes and cultural awareness 54, 55
We have achieved a 41% decrease in waste over the past four years; we internally aspire to 50% of all waste to be recycled from producing assets 48
Pluto LNG is Australia’s largest carbon-offset project through a forest carbon sink; we support research on the impacts of coral bleaching and recovery to coral reefs in Western Australia (e.g. Ningaloo, Rankin Bank, Rowley Shoals, Scott Reef)48, 49
We support governments implementing stable and effective climate policies including placing a price on carbon 38
With operations offshore, we understand the imperative to minimise our impacts on ocean environments. Our practised approach to understanding the diverse environments in which we operate is to partner with research organisations to deliver robust scientific data and environmental studies.48, 49
Our partnership with BirdLife seeks to gather data to enable decision making and management recommendations for an important migratory shorebird habitat in the RoK49
Woodside operates an effective management framework to maintain our licence to operate, comply with regulatory requirements and meet the expectations of joint venture participants and stakeholders26
There were no violations of anti-bribery and corruption laws detected within or in connection with Woodside in 2017 21
Since 2016, all new contracts signed under Woodside terms and conditions require suppliers to comply with Woodside’s Supplier Code of Business Conduct, which mandates that they must respect the basic human rights of all people24
It is the responsibility of every director, employee and contractor to be familiar with and comply with the Code, and for leaders to embed our Compass values across our business20
We support and partner with a wide range of organisations30, 32, 
38, 47, 
49, 58, 
59, 60, 61Woodside is already making a positive contribution to the achievement of the SDGs. Below are examples 
of where our activities align to SDGs as articulated in the report.
 Refer to our website for more information on how Woodside contributes directly to the SDG targets (woodside.com.au).SUSTAINABILITY 
PERFORMANCE 
An aerial view of the coastline south of Dampier.64  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017OUR PERFORMANCE
Refer to our website for more information on Woodside’s sustainability performance (www.woodside.com.au).To help evaluate our progress in a more objective 
way, we track our performance against a number 
of recognised external benchmarks. We are seeking 
continuous improvement in environment, social and governance (ESG) global indices.
GLOBAL BENCHMARKS
1. CDP ceased publishing percentile scores from 2016.
2. Score reflects strengthening of CDP’s assessment methodology.3. Model used to calculate ESG rating was amended in 2014.
4. Our MSCI 2017 results are published in May 2018.Dow Jones Sustainability Index
We have participated in this 
index since 2002. We have maintained membership of the World Index, Asia Pacific Index and Australia Index. We maintained leader group status for our sector in the 2017 Sustainability Yearbook.Score: 79/100, 97th percentile 
in upstream integrated oil and gas sector
Industry average: 46/100 
RobecoSAM: Silver Class
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
 Score (100) 74 75 73 80 79
 Percentile 89 89 88 95 97Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
We have participated in CDP’s 
climate change program since 2007. C represents Awareness – knowledge of impacts on, and of climate change issues.Score: C Awareness  
Industry group average:  
C Awareness
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Score C C C B C2
 Percentile 72 88 89 N/A1 N/A
74
89
75
73
80
7989
88
95
97
C
C
C
CB
FTSE4Good
For the third year we  
achieved inclusion in  this index. Our ESG  rating was an absolute  score of 3.8 out of 5.Score: 3.8/5, 90th percentile in 
our sector
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
 Score (5) N/A3 N/A3 3.5 3.6 3.8
Percentile N/A3 N/A3 89 93 90
3.4
3.6
3.8
MSCI
We have been rated by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) since 2011 when we achieved an A rating. We continue to
 maintain a AAA 
rating with this index.Rating: AAA, top decile in industry group
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
 Rating AAA AAA AAA AAA N/A4
AAA
AAAAAA
AAA Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainability performance   65Data tables 
Health and safety performance12017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Workforce exposure (hours)
Employees  7,172,434  7,258,871  7,633,456 7,562,421  7,357,245 
Contractors  6,016,084  6,778,640  6,393,049  6,117,328  6,637,001 
Total  13,188,518  14,037,511  14,026,505  13,679,749 13,994,246 
Number of incidents
Fatalities – employees 0 0 0 0 0
Fatalities – contractors 0 0 0 0 0
Total fatalities 0 0 0 0 0
Recordable injuries – employees 5 6 8 7 7
Recordable injuries – contractors 12 17 16 19 35
Total recordable injuries 17 23 24 26 42
Lost time injury events – employees 0 1 3 0 2
Lost time injury events – contractors 8 3 3 3 4
Lost time injury events 8 4 6 3 6
High potential incidents 13 10 10 21 36
Recordable occupational illnesses – employees 5 10 12 5 6
Recordable occupational illnesses – contractors 1 2 5 6 4
Total recordable occupational illnesses 6 12 17 11 10
Frequency rates2
Total recordable injury rate – employees20.70 0.83 1.05 0.93 0.95
Total recordable injury rate – contractors21.99 2.51 2.50 3.11 5.27
Total recordable injury rate21.29 1.64 1.71 1.90 3.00
Lost time injury frequency – employees20 0.14 0.39 0 0.27
Lost time injury frequency – contractors21.33 0.44 0.47 0.49 0.60
Lost time injury frequency20.61 0.28 0.43 0.22 0.43
High potential incident frequency 0.99 0.71 0.71  1.54 2.57
Total recordable occupational illness frequency – employees 0.70 1.38 1.57 0.66 0.82
Total recordable occupational illness frequency – contractors 0.17 0.30 0.78 0.98 0.60
Total recordable occupational illness frequency 0.45 0.85 1.21 0.80 0.71
Total recordable injury rate by region2
Australia 1.29 1.74 1.74  1.92 2.79
Asia 0 0 0 0 13.33
Other 22.05 0 2.61 Not previously reported
Overall frequency 1.29 1.64 1.71  1.90 3.00
Total recordable occupational illness frequency by region2
Australia 0.48  0.83  1.29 0.81 0.74
Asia 0  2.18 Not previously reported
Other 0 Not previously reported
Overall frequency 0.45  0.85 1.21 0.80 0.71
Lost days by regionAustralia
167 23 225 158 107
Asia 0 0 0 0 4
Other 29 0 28 Not previously reported
Total 196 23 253 158 111
Lost days by genderMale employees
0 10 119 30 39
Female employees 0 0 11 0 22
Male contractors 196 13 80 104 50
Female contractors 0 0 43 24 0
Total 196 23 253 158 111
Number of injuries by genderMale employees
3 5 6 7 7
Female employees 2 1 2 0 0
Male contractors 11 17 15 17 34
Female contractors 1 0 1 2 1
Total 17 23 24 26 42
Occupational illness by genderMale employees
5 9 11 4 4
Female employees 0 1 1 1 2
Male contractors 1 2 3 6 4
Female contractors 0 0 2 0 0
Total 6 12 17 11 10
Training time spent on health and safety by region (hours)Australia
325,505 27,409 5,587  4,892 5,406
Asia 0 0 0 0 0
Total 25,505 27,409 5,587  4,892 5,406
Employee absentee rate by region4Australia 1.4 1.41 Not previously reported
Asia 0.2 0.63 Not previously reported
North America 0.1 0.34 Not previously reported
United Kingdom
1.3 Not previously reported
Other 0 Not previously reported
Process safety events5
Tier 1 0 1 0 0 0
Tier 2 0 1 2 2 4
Total 0 2 2 2 4
1. Health and safety data includes international exploration activity.
2. Frequency rates are calculated per million hours worked.
3. Increase in training hours in 2016–2017 was driven by mandatory Process Safety 
Management training.4. Percentage of hours absent versus worked.
5. Classified in accordance with American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 (API RP 754).66  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017Environmental performance12017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Hydrocarbon production
Total – equity (kt)2, 59,529  10,890 10,683 10,678 9,769
Total (kt)229,639 34,520 34,237 34,848 33,232
RevenueRevenue – equity ($USDm)3
3,908 4,075 5,030 7,435 5,926
Greenhouse gas emissions7Scope 1 emissions – equity (kt CO
2e)53,235 3,494 3,424 3,435 3,049
Scope 1 emissions (kt CO₂ e)89,883 10,084 9,974 9,822 9,184
Scope 2 emissions (kt CO₂ e) 8 14 7 8 8
Scope 1 emissions intensity – equity (kt CO₂ e/kt)50.34 0.32 0.32 0.32 0.31
Scope 1 emissions intensity (kt CO₂ e/kt)80.33 0.29 0.29 0.28 0.28
Scope 1 emissions intensity – equity (kt CO₂ e/$USDm)50.83 0.86 0.68 0.46 0.51
Greenhouse gas emissions by source4,7
Fuel combustion (kt CO 2e) 7,037 7,495 7,171 7,083 6,526
Flare (kt CO₂ e) 817 654 961 1,105 1,154
Venting (kt CO₂ e) 1,990 1,861 1,768 1,562 1,434
Other (kt CO₂ e) 46 88 81 80 78
Flared gasTotal flaring – equity (tonnes)
5123,178 90,652 161,488 170,421 121,477
Total flaring (tonnes)8280,517 210,045 311,834 349,845 421,394
Flaring intensity – equity (t/kt)512.9 8.3 15.1 16.0 12.4
Flaring intensity (t/kt)89.5 6.1 9.1 10.0 12.7
Non-greenhouse gas emissions8
NOx (tonnes) 20,620 19,908 19,998 19,799  19,967
SOx (tonnes) 52 41 42 42 48
VOCs (tonnes) 19,138  18,508 20,574 18,497 18,395
RefrigerantsCFC-11 (tonnes)
0.02 0.14 0.11 0.19 0.15
Resource use
Fuel consumption
Total fuel consumption – equity (TJ)542,001 49,800 46,496 47,949 45,585
Total fuel consumption (TJ)8 139,786 145,356 141,432 142,048 131,858
Fuel intensity – equity (TJ/kt)54.4 4.6 4.4 4.5 4.7
Fuel intensity (TJ/kt)84.7 4.2 4.1 4.1 4.0
Electricity consumption
Grid electricity consumption (TJ)640 68.1 30.0 31.0 31.4
WaterFresh water use (m
3)6364,667 381,919 403,361 358,408 524,408
Fresh water intensity (m3/kt) 12  11.1  11.8  10.3  15.8 
Produced formation water – reinjection (m3) 9,575,269 8,187,635 7,553,687 5,826,162 3,442,947
Produced formation water – open marine (m3) 3,022,350 5,107,834 10,251,346 10,142,841 8,069,245
Produced formation water – oil load open marine (kg) 26,237 44,119 99,131 86,617 71,056
WasteNon-hazardous (tonnes)
2,956 1,426 3,216 3,357 6,619
Hazardous (tonnes) 6,645 8,085 8,729 8,508 9,645
Total waste (tonnes) 9,601 9,511 11,945 11,865 16,264
Waste DisposalIncineration (tonnes)
0 7 6 1 848
Evaporation (tonnes) 3,115 5,663 5,931 5,104 6,146
Landfill (tonnes) 2,418 1,596 2,866 3,258 4,628
Reused / recycled (tonnes) 3,991 2,174 2,812 3,377 3,884
Other (tonnes) 77 71 239 125 758
Environmental incidentsTotal number of hydrocarbon spills (>1 bbl)
0 2 0 1 0
Total – Quantity of hydrocarbon spilt for spills >1 bbl (m3) 0 0.51 0 0.7 0.21
Total number of non-hydrocarbon spills (>1 bbl) 2 3 8 0 0
Total – Quantity of non-hydrocarbon spilt for spills > 1 bbl (m3) 4.4 19.8 13.8 0 2.8
1. Performance data is reported on both a total and Woodside equity share basis as appropriate.
2. Hydrocarbon production includes exportable hydrocarbons only.
3. Refer to the Annual Report 2017 for more information on total operating revenue.
4. Data excludes Scope 3 emissions.
5. The equity portion of greenhouse gas emissions, flare, fuel and production values includes data from non-operated ventures where Woodside owns an equity portion, where data has been made available.
6. Grid electricty consumption and municiple water use has been partially estimated where late acquisition of data has prevented publication of actual values.
7. Emissions estimates have been developed in accordance with the Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Measurement Determination 2008, except for minor corrections to increase 
completeness and accuracy to international standards. Applied Global Warming Potentials are consistent with the Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Regulations 2008.
8. Operated greenhouse gas, flare fuel and production values are for Woodside-operated production assets only. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainability performance   671. Woodside determines employment category based on job level.
2.  Increase in total hours training driven by mandatory Process Safety Management (PSM) training during 2016. This training now forms part of business as usual training programs. A majority of 
process safety critical roles are operational or technical, predominately undertaken by male employees.
3. The figures in the parentheses above reflect the averages excluding PSM training.People 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Number of staff by gender
Male 2,531 2,499 2,483 2,757 2,836
Female 1,066 1,012 973 1,046 1,053
Total 3,597 3,511 3,456 3,803 3,889
Number of staff by employment type
Permanent 3,068 3,010 2,931 3,224 3,325
Fixed term 253 251 276 290 294
Part-time 276 250 249 289 270
Total 3,597 3,511 3,456 3,803 3,889
Number of staff by employment category1
Administration – Male 105 90 82 112 111
Administration – Female 146 138 136 186 221
Technical – Male 1,004 1,013 1,002 1,068 1,085
Technical – Female 453 411 398 392 359
Supervisory/Professional – Male 878 863 879 997 1,040
Supervisory/Professional – Female 351 360 356 386 388
Middle Management – Male 509 496 479 543 560
Middle Management – Female 105 94 77 78 80
Senior Management – Male 35 37 41 37 40
Senior Management – Female 11 9 6 4 5
Total 3,597 3,511 3,456 3,803 3,889
Board Members – Male 8 7 7 7 7
Board Members – Female 3 3 2 2 2
Number of staff by regionAustralia 3,537 3,468 3,392 3,788 3,863
Africa/Middle East 4 0 1 1 0
Asia 34 21 32 8 4
Europe 16 11 17 2 2
New Zealand 0 0 1 1
USA and Canada (Canada staff added in 2015) 6 11 13 3 20
Total 3,597 3,511 3,456 3,803 3,889
Number of ContractorsTotal 185 192 243 210 331
Woodside staff age distribution (years)
≤30 Male 350 348 361 374 392
≤30 Female 319 289 295 285 291
31–50 Male 1,518 1,514 1,518 1,680 1,748
31–50 Female 636 624 588 642 643
51+ Male 663 637 604 703 696
51+ Female 111 99 90 119 119
Total 3,597 3,511 3,456 3,803 3,889
Breakdown of employees per category according to Indigenous workforceEmployees 117 103 94 99 101
Pathways 41 33 28 44 54
Total 158 136 122 143 155
Employee turnover (number)Male employees 50 87 403 218 295
Female employees 80 38 151 82 105
Total 130 125 554 300 400
Voluntary turnover (number) 112 113 199 277 366
Voluntary turnover (percentage) 3.2 3.3 5.7 7.3 9.4
Turnover by region (number)Australia 128 123 553 296 391
Africa/Middle East
Asia 1
Europe 1
USA 1 2 4 9
Total 130 125 554 300 400
Employee turnover by age group (years)
≤30 19 22 56 50 73
31–50 70 58 271 165 236
51+ 41 45 227 85 91
Total 130 125 554 300 400
Returning from parental leave (percentage) 95 86 92 89 84
Traineeship and apprenticeship program (number) 109 109 142 149 125
Employees in Graduate Program (number)Male employees 154 143 114 89 80
Female employees 136 127 97 70 53
Total 290 270 211 159 133
Total hours of training by gender
Male employees 70,050 62,471 63,657 Not previously reported
Female employees 26,325 15,752 13,887 Not previously reported
Total 96,375 78,223 77,544 Not previously reported
Total hours of Process Safety Management (PSM) training by gender
2
Male employees 17,356 Not applicable
Female employees 1,676 Not applicable
Total 19,032 Not applicable
Average per person hours of training by gender3
Male 28 32 (25) 26 29 23
Female 25 17 (16) 14 17 11
Total 27 28 (22) 22 26 20
Average per person training by gender – professional/management3
Male 25 25 (16) 16 23 16
Female 24 16 (13) 11 18 12
Total 25 23 (16) 15 22 16
Total hours of training by employee type3
Permanent 86,928 91,006 (72,734) 71,660 Not previously reported
Fixed term 5,350 3,719 (3,427) 3,830 Not previously reported
Part-time 4,097 2,530 (2,062) 2,054
Total 96,375 97,255 (78,223) 77,544
Average per person hours of training by employee type3
Permanent 28 30 (24) 24 28 22
Fixed term 21 15 (14) 14 15 12
Part-time 15 10 (8) 8 11 7
Total 27 28 (22) 22 26 20
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender
Male 97% 99% 99% 99% 97%
Female 95% 97% 98% 96% 93%
Total 97% 98% 99% 98% 96%68  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017Notes and definitions
Environment
Total hydrocarbon production Includes gross liquid and gas products, but does not include reinjected hydrocarbons.
Total energy consumption Comprises direct and indirect energy consumption.
Fresh water use Supplied by water utility.
Produced formation water Water that is brought to the surface during the production of hydrocarbons.
Health and safety
Frequency rates Frequency rates are calculated per million hours worked.
Workforce exposure hours The total number of hours of employment including paid overtime and training but excluding leave, sickness and unpaid 
overtime hours. Hours are recorded separately for Woodside employees (includes permanent and fixed-term contractors) 
and contracting personnel. Contracting personnel are defined as people employed by another company to perform activities for Woodside (includes third-party contractors and service providers).
Total recordable injury rate (TRIR)The number of recordable injuries (fatalities + lost work day cases + restricted workday cases + medical treatment cases) per 1,000,000 hours worked.
Lost time injury (LTI) An LTI is something that results in a fatality, disability or time lost from work. The number of LTIs is the sum of these cases.
Incident Is one, or more, of the following: an unplanned release of energy that actually resulted in injury, occupational illness, environmental harm or damage to assets, a near miss, damage or potential damage to company reputation, breach of 
regulatory compliance and/or legislation, security breach.
High potential incident (HPI) Is an incident, regardless of actual consequence, that could have resulted in the worst realistic consequence of Category C or above in accordance with the Woodside Event Reporting Impact Table.
Occupational injury Is harm to a person such as a cut, fracture, sprain, amputation etc. that resulted from a single, instantaneous incident. All 
injuries are classified for work-relatedness and severity in accordance with IOGP.
Occupational illness Is any work-related abnormal condition or disorder, other than one resulting from a work injury, caused by or mainly caused by exposures at work such as inhalation, absorption, ingestion of, or direct contact with, as well as exposure to, physical and psychological situations. All illnesses are classified for work-relatedness and severity in accordance with IOGP.
Loss of Primary Containment (LoPC)An unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from primary containment, including non-toxic and non-flammable materials (e.g. steam, hot condensate, nitrogen, compressed CO2 or compressed air).
Lost workday case (LWC) Occurs where any work-related injury results in a person being unfit for work on ‘any day’ after the day of the event occurring. ‘Any day’ includes scheduled rest days, weekend days, leave days, public holidays or days after ceasing 
employment. Lost work days are calculated by counting the total number of calendar days from the date the person was 
declared unfit for work to the date the person was declared fit for restricted or normal duties.
Restricted workday case (RWC) Occurs where any work-related injury or occupational illness results in a person being unfit for full performance of their regular job on any day after the event occurring. The number of Restricted Work Days is calculated by counting the total number of calendar days from the date that the person was declared fit for restricted duties to the date that the person was 
declared fit for normal/routine duties.
Medical treatment case (MTC) This results where the management and care of the patient to address the injury or illness is above and beyond first aid, but 
does not involve fatality, lost days or restricted days.
Occupational illness frequency 
by regionThis frequency rate includes total recordable illnesses only, i.e. the sum of all occupational-illness related fatalities, lost workday cases, restricted work cases and medical treatment cases. It does not include first aid cases.
Lost days The count of lost days begins on the day immediately after the day of injury/illness. It includes the total number of calendar days that were not able to be worked due to injuries and illness. It does not include days lost for one case where information 
on the number of lost days was not available at the time of reporting. For purposes of calculation this has been counted as one day lost.
Training time spent on health and safetyIncludes Woodside in-house training courses only. Training records for third-party contractors have not been collated by Woodside. Does not include health and safety site or office inductions. Does not include Helicopter Underwater Escape Training (HUET) or external training courses.
Number of injuries by gender The figure expressed in the report is the number of recordable injuries only – it does not include first aid cases or illnesses.
Occupational illnesses by gender The figure expressed in the report is the number of recordable illnesses only – it does not include first aid cases or injuries.
Process safety event (PSE) 
(Tier 1 and Tier 2)An unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment (LOPC) of any material including non-toxic and non-flammable materials from a process, or an undesired event or condition. Process safety events are classified as Tier 1 – LOPC of greatest 
consequence or Tier 2 – LOPC of lesser consequence. As defined by American Petroleum Institute (API) recommended practice 754.
Absentee An employee absent from work because of incapacity of any kind, not just as the result of work-related injury or disease. 
Permitted leave absences such as holidays, study, maternity or paternity leave, and compassionate leave are excluded.
Absentee rate A measure of actual absentee days lost expressed as a percentage of total days scheduled to be worked by the workforce for the same period.
People
Total employees Total number of employees including permanent, fixed term and part-time. Does not include secondees 
or contractors.
Contractors Non-Woodside employees, working within Woodside to support specific activities.
Total turnover Permanent and fixed-term employees who left Woodside voluntarily or involuntarily.
Voluntary turnover Permanent and fixed-term employees who left Woodside voluntarily for reasons not initiated by the company.
Social investment Social investment data has been verified by the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) methodology. The LBG verified data includes donations, community investment and commercial initiatives. For more information, visit lbg-australia.com. Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainability performance   69Glossary
APPEA Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association Ltd
ASX Australian Securities Exchange
ATO Australian Taxation Office
Board Woodside’s governing body – the Board of Directors
Code Woodside’s Code of Conduct
Condensate Hydrocarbons that are gaseous in a reservoir but that condense to form liquids as they rise to the surface
Downstream Industry term for operations relating to refining crude oil into petroleum products, as well as marketing crude oil and products derived from 
petroleum
Flaring The controlled burning of gas found in oil and gas reservoirs
FLNG Floating liquefied natural gas
FPSO Floating production storage and offloading vessel
Free cash flow Cash flow from operating activities less cash flow from investing activities
Greenfield The development of exploration outside the area of influence of existing operations/infrastructure
Greenhouse gasesGases that trap heat in the atmosphere, including carbon dioxide, hydrofluorocarbons, methane, nitrous oxides, ozone, perfluorocarbons, vapour 
and water
GRIThe Global Reporting Initiative is a network-based organisation that promotes sustainability reporting worldwide. The GRI reporting framework 
sets out principles and indicators that organisations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental and social performance.
HSE Health, safety and environment
IOGP International Association of Oil and Gas Producers
IPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association. The global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues.
LBG London Benchmarking Group
LNG Liquefied natural gas
LPG Liquefied petroleum gas
LTIF Lost time injury frequency
NPAT Net profit after tax
NWS North West Shelf
PBT Profit before tax
PSE Process safety event
RAP Reconciliation Action Plan
Renewable energy Any form of energy from biological, geophysical or solar sources that replenishes itself by natural processes at a rate that is equal to or greater than 
its rate of use
SDGs Sustainable Development Goals
Sustainability Achieving a decent standard of living for everyone today without compromising the needs of future generations. (United Nations, 2013) 
TRIR Total recordable injury rate
Upstream Industry term for operations relating to exploring for, developing and producing as well as marketing crude oil and natural gas. This includes transporting crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products by pipeline or marine vessel.
WMS Woodside Management System. This is the company’s structured governance framework.
Units
A$ Australian dollars
bbl barrel
bn billion
boe barrel of oil equivalent
CFC chlorofluorocarbon
CO₂e carbon dioxide equivalent
GJ gigajoules
kt kilotonne
L litres
mL megalitres
MMbbl million barrels
MMboe million barrels of oil equivalent
MT million tonnes
Mtoe million tonnes of oil equivalent
mtpa million tonnes per annum
NOx oxides of nitrogen
SOx oxides of sulfur
t tonne
tCO₂e tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
TJ terajoules
US$ US dollars
VOCs volatile organic compounds70  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation  
 Independent Assurance Statement to the Management and Directors of 
Woodside Petroleum Ltd  
 
What we did 
Ernst & Young (‘EY’) was engaged by 
Woodside Petroleum Limited (‘Woodside’) to 
undertake ‘limited assurance’ and ‘reasonable 
assurance’ as defined by Australian Auditing 
Standards, over selected information 
disclosed in Woodside’s 2017 Sustainable 
Development Report for the year ended 31 
December 2017. 
What our assurance covered 
The subject matter for our limited assurance  
includes: 
► The content of the Woodside 2017 
Sustainable Development Report (‘SD 
Report’) including the published 
information relevant to the year ending 31 December 2017, limited to the claims and 
data in the following sections: 
► Operating with transparency and integrity 
► Fostering the organisation and culture 
► Building a resilient business 
► Operating responsibly 
► Creating shared value 
► Woodside’s approach to 
sustainability including materiality 
matrix and sustainability targets 
► Sustainability performance 
► Woodside’s self-assessed “in accordance 
with” level of disclosures to attain Global 
Reporting Initiative’s (‘GRI’) G4 “core” 
reporting. 
The subject matter for our reasonable 
assurance includes Woodside’s health and 
safety performance data, limited to: 
► Workforce exposure hours 
► Incidents (including Total Recordable Injuries, Lost Time 
Injuries, fatalities, high potential 
incidents, recordable 
occupational illnesses) 
► Frequency rates (including Total 
Recordable Injury Rate, Lost Time Injury Rate, Total 
Recordable occupational illness 
frequency rate) 
► Training hours 
► Employee absentee rate 
Our assurance engagement does not extend to web-based information, including video 
hyperlinks in the SD Report. 
Reporting Criteria applied by Woodside 
In preparing the Woodside SD Report, 
Woodside applied the following criteria:   
► The Principles for Defining Report 
Content (materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, and 
completeness) and the GRI Principles for 
Ensuring Report Quality (balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity 
and reliability), as set out in the GRI G4 
Reporting Guidelines 
► Woodside’s self-determined criteria for 
the reporting of non-financial information, as detailed within the SD Report Key responsibilities  
EY’s responsibility and independence 
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion 
on Woodside’s SD Report based on our 
assurance. 
We were also responsible for maintaining our 
independence and confirm that we have met 
the requirements of the APES 110 Code of 
Ethics for Professional Accountants , including 
independence, and have the required 
competencies and experience to conduct this 
assurance engagement. 
Woodside’s responsibility  
Woodside management (“management”) was 
responsible for selecting the Criteria, and 
preparing and fairly presenting the SD Report in accordance with the Criteria. This 
responsibility includes establishing and 
maintaining internal controls, adequate 
records, and making estimates that are 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
What our work involved 
We conducted this assurance engagement in 
accordance with the Australian Auditing and 
Assurance Standards Board Australian 
Standard on Assurance Engagements Other 
Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (‘ASAE 3000’) , and the terms of 
reference for this engagement. 
Summary of assurance procedures 
performed  
For limited assurance: A review consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons 
responsible for preparing the Woodside SD 
Report and related information, and applying analytical and other review procedures. Our 
procedures included: 
► Assessing Woodside’s process for 
determining material aspects;  
► Determining whether material topics and 
performance issues identified during our 
procedures had been adequately 
disclosed;  
► Interviewing selected corporate and site personnel to understand the processes 
for the collection and accurate reporting 
of performance information;  
► Assessing the organisation’s 
responsiveness and awareness of 
material aspects, through reviewing 
Woodside’s policies, processes and targets, and communication of responses 
to stakeholders;  
► Where relevant, gaining an understanding 
of systems and processes for data aggregation and reporting;  
► Checking the accuracy of calculations 
performed;  
► Reviewing selected management information and documentation 
supporting assertions made in the subject 
matter;  
► Comparing year-on-year and month-on-
month data;  ► Checking that data and statements had been correctly transcribed from corporate 
systems and/or supporting evidence into 
the Re port; and  
► Checking the presentation of claims and data against the relevant GRI principles 
contained in the criteria. 
For reasonable assurance: In addition to the 
above procedures our reasonable assurance 
procedures included, but were not limited to, 
the following: 
► Performing tests of details and substantive testing for material qualitative and quantitative information;  
► Checking evidence to support key 
assumptions in calculations and other 
data; 
We believe that the evidence obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our limited and reasonable assurance 
conclusions. 
Limited Assurance 
Procedures performed in a limited assurance 
engagement vary in nature and timing from, 
and are less in extent than for a reasonable 
assurance engagement. Consequently the 
level of assurance obtained in a limited 
assurance engagement is substantially lower 
than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance 
engagement been performed. Our procedures 
were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusion 
and do not provide all the evidence that would 
be required to provide a reasonable level of 
assurance. 
While we considered the effectiveness of 
management’s internal controls when 
determining the nature and extent of our 
procedures, our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance on internal 
controls. Our procedures did not include 
testing controls or performing procedures relating to checking aggregation or calculation 
of data within IT systems. 
Reasonable Assurance 
A reasonable assurance engagement consists 
of making enquiries and applying analytical, substantive and other reasonable assurance 
procedures.  We believe that the evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our conclusion. 
Use of our Assurance Statement 
We disclaim any assumption of responsibility 
for any reliance on this assurance report to 
any persons other than management and the Directors of Woodside, or for any purpose 
other than that for which it was prepared.  
 
 
Dr Matthew Bell Ernst & Young 
Perth, Australia    
8 March 2018  Our Conclusion Based on our review procedures, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that the limited assurance subject matter in 
Woodside’s 2017 Sustainable Development Report has not been prepared and presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with 
the reporting criteria. 
Based on our reasonable assurance procedures, in our opinion the health and safety performance data in Woodside’s 2017 Sustainable 
Development Report is presented fairly, in all material aspects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. EY ASSURANCE STATEMENT Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainability performance    71General Standard Disclosures1Page – Sustainable Development Report 2017 Page – Annual Report 2017
Strategy and analysis
G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker 1 10-11
Organisational Profile
G4-3 Name of the organisation 72 ii
G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 2, 6-9 2–3, 146
G4-5 Location of headquarters back page 17, 41, back page
G4-6 Countries of operations 2, 6-7 2, 5, 16–17, 29–31
G4-7 Nature of ownership 72 ii
G4-8 Markets served 2, 9 27, 48–49
G4-9 Scale of the organisation 6-7, 9, 28, 67 2–3, 16–17, 33–39, 148
G4-10 Number of employees 31, 67  
employment type by gender currently not reported, under review 148
G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements information currently unavailable NA
G4-12 Description of supply chain 56-57
G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 50, 56 5, 10–13, 30
G4-14 Use of the precautionary principle 13, 48, 50, 62 62–63
G4-15 List of charters, principles or initiatives subscribed 60-61, 64
G4-16 Memberships of associations 73
Identified Material Aspects and BoundariesG4-17 Entities included in financial statements 72 ii
G4-18 Defining report content 10-16
G4-19 Material aspects identified 16 62–63
G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation website
G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation website
G4-22 Restatements of information 64,65
G4-23 Significant change to scope and aspect boundaries no significant changes
Stakeholder EngagementG4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 10-11
G4-25 Basis for identification of stakeholders 10-11
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 10-11
G4-27 Topics raised by stakeholders 10-11, 16
Report ProfileG4-28 Reporting period calendar year ii
G4-29 Date of previous report 2016 calendar year
G4-30 Reporting cycle 72 ii
G4-31 Contact point for questions i back cover
G4-32 In accordance option of GRI 70-72
G4-33 Assurance 70,72 134–136
GovernanceG4-34 Governance structure 14 73
Ethics and Integrity
G4-56 Values, principles, codes of conduct 20-26 iv
1. The description of disclosures has been summarised. For full descriptions refer to globalreporting.org.
GRI (G4) DMA and Indicator Page Omissions Reason for Omission IPIECA
Material issue
Climate change DMA – G4 - EC2 and EN15 36–39 EC2:  
Financial implications and costs 
associated with actions relating to climate changeEC2:
 
Information available is included in our published 2017 CDP SubmissionE 1, E 2, E 3, E 4
EN15:  
HFCs not includedEN15:  
HFCs excluded from our inventory consistent with NGER reporting rules
Major incident 
preventionDMA – Asset Integrity and Process Safety G4 – OG1342–43 SE 11, SE 12, SE 13
Major incident responseDMA – Emergency Preparedness44–45 HS 5
Transparency, 
anti-bribery  
and corruptionDMA – Anti Bribery and Corruption G4 - SO5 21 E 9
Health and safety performanceDMA – Occupational Health and Safety G4 - LA646–47
TRIR, LTIFR and Absentee rate 
by genderData collection processes do not enable the reporting of health, safety and absentee rates by genderHS 1, HS 2, HS 3GRI and IPIECA indexes
This table references the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
Refer to our website for IPIECA index related to full report (www.woodside.com.au).72  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2017ABOUT  
THIS REPORT 
Scope
This report is published for key stakeholders to understand 
Woodside’s sustainability approach, actions, performance and 
key material issues for the 12-month period ended 31 December 
2017. The report was approved by the Woodside Board of Directors on 8 March 2018.
Woodside Petroleum Ltd (ABN 55 004 898 962) is the ultimate 
holding company of the Woodside group of companies. In this 
report, unless otherwise stated, references to ‘Woodside’, the 
‘company’ and the ‘group’ refer to Woodside Petroleum Ltd and its controlled entities. The information in this report covers all 
sites and production facilities wholly owned and operated by 
Woodside or that are operated by Woodside in a joint venture.
Our share of production and revenues from non-operated 
assets is reported on an equity share basis. In these instances, we have only reported the Woodside interest. Health, safety, 
environment and people performance data is reported as total, 
although environmental performance data also includes a Woodside equity share reporting basis. 
Health and safety data 
includes international exploration activity.
All dollar figures in this report are expressed in USD currency, unless otherwise stated.
Reporting approach
The Sustainable Development Report 2017 links our sustainability principles to our company mission, vision and values.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 core-level reporting. The GRI guidelines 
provide a globally accepted framework of principles and indicators 
for reporting an organisation’s economic, environmental and social position, practices and performance. This report includes indicators 
from the GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures. Refer to page 71 
for GRI index.
Woodside also reports in accordance with IPIECA and Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Industry Reporting (2015).
IPIECA is the global oil and gas industry association for 
environmental and social issues.
Refer to our website for our IPIECA content index  (woodside.com.au).In determining the report content, we have been guided by the AA1000 standard. The AA1000 standard provides a framework 
for our organisation to identify, prioritise and respond to 
sustainability challenges.
Inclusivity
We acknowledge the importance of stakeholder participation in developing and implementing our response to sustainability 
reporting. We sought the opinions of a range of stakeholders as 
part of the materiality process that helped to define the content of this report. Refer to pages 10–11 for more information on our 
stakeholders, their interests and our responses.
Materiality
Issues are considered material if they have the potential to 
impact our ability to achieve our business strategy or affect our 
reputation, or they are of material concern to our stakeholders. 
For additional information on the materiality assessment process refer to pages 15–16.
Responsiveness
The report aims to respond to those issues identified as material for Woodside and our stakeholders. Information on our 
response to material issues can be found throughout the report 
(refer to page 16 for specific locations).
External assurance
EY has conducted assurance over the Sustainable Development Report 2017. A copy of EY’s assurance statement is on page 70.
Other data is assured by GHD (Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions data only; prepared in accordance with GRI Standard 
‘GRI 305: Emissions’ on both an operational control and equity 
basis) and LGB (social investment contributions).
Refer to our website for external assurance statements (woodside.com.au).
VIDEO LINKS
Click or scan for videos  
about Wodside or visit  
our YouTube channel.Relevant memberships and subscriptions for the 
Sustainable Development Report:
Australian memberships
International memberships 
International subscriptions
UNEP World Conservation 
Monitoring Centre
Sustainable Development Report 2017
Head Office: 
Woodside Petroleum Ltd 
240 St Georges Terrace 
Perth WA 6000
Postal address: 
GPO Box D188 
Perth WA 6840  
Australia
T: +61 8 9348 4000 
F: +61 8 9214 2777 
E: companyinfo@woodside.com.au
Woodside Petroleum Ltd 
ABN 55 004 898 962
woodside.com.au