This report is structured into four 
key sections detailing our people, 
environment, approach and future.  
These aspects underpin the economic 
benefits generated by our activities for 
our shareholders, partners, governments 
and the communities where we are active.On the cover
The cover features an aerial view of the remarkable sandbanks 
off the coast from the Searipple Lookout in Karratha, near 
Woodside’s operations and development activities on the 
Burrup Peninsula. 
About this report
This report provides an overview of Woodside’s sustainability 
approach and performance as at 31 December 2018. Additional 
information, including data tables, is available on our website 
(woodside.com.au). The report was approved by Woodside’s 
Board of Directors.
Scope
Woodside Petroleum Ltd (ABN 55 004 898 962) is the ultimate 
holding company of the Woodside Group of Companies. In 
this report, unless otherwise stated, references to ‘Woodside’ 
and ‘the company’ refer to Woodside Petroleum Ltd and its 
controlled entities. The information in this report covers sites 
and production facilities wholly owned by Woodside, and/or 
operated by Woodside in a joint venture. 
Health, safety, environment and people performance data is 
reported on a total basis, although environmental performance 
data also includes a Woodside equity share reporting basis. 
Health and safety data includes international exploration activity.Reporting frameworks
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards core-level reporting 
and the International Petroleum Industry Environmental 
Conservation Association (IPIECA) Oil and Gas Industry 
Guidance on Voluntary Industry Reporting (2015). IPIECA is 
the global oil and gas industry association for environmental 
and social issues. Refer to our website for our GRI and IPIECA 
content indices.
External assurance
EY has conducted limited assurance over selected information 
in this report and the associated data tables. A copy of EY’s 
assurance statement is available on our website. Our Scope 1 
and 2 greenhouse gas emissions data is assured by GHD and 
our social investment contributions are assured by London 
Benchmarking Group.
Sustainability  performance
To evaluate our progress in a more objective way, we respond 
to a number of recognised environment, social, and governance 
indices. Details of our performance is located on our website.
ECONOMIC 
BENEFITSOUR PEOPLEOUR ENVIRONMENT
OUR APPROACH O
UR FUTUREWe are working with Green ReportsTM on 
an initiative ensuring that communications 
minimise environmental impact and  
create a more sustainable future for  
the community.
Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018CONTENTS
Overview
About Woodside 2
Our performance 3
Message from our Sustainability Committee Chair  4
Message from our CEO 5
Economic benefits 6
Principles and U.N. SDGs 7
Materiality 8
Sustainability targets 9
Governance 10
Our people
Health and safety performance 12
People, capability, inclusion and diversity 16
Social and cultural impacts on communities 19
Human rights 24
Our environment
Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions 26
Environment 28
Major incident response 30
Our approach
Our stakeholders 32
Fraud, anti-bribery and corruption 34
Supply chain and local content 35
Transparency 36
Regulatory compliance 38
Our future
Innovation and technology 40
Future energy mix 42
Notes and definitions 44
Glossary 44
Our Annual Report 2018
Our Annual Report 2018 is a summary of 
Woodside’s operations, activities and financial 
position as at 31 December 2018. Copies of the 
Annual Report 2018 are available on request or 
from our website.
Report feedback
We welcome your feedback on our report.
Email: communities@woodside.com.au
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  1Woodside is the pioneer of the LNG industry in Australia and the largest Australian natural gas producer. 
We have a global portfolio and are recognised for our world-class capabilities as an integrated upstream 
supplier of energy. 
We deliver energy solutions that provide sustainable value 
for our shareholders, partners and the communities where we 
are active. Our operated assets are renowned for their safety, 
reliability and efficiency and we have a strong track record in 
project development. As Australia’s premier liquefied natural 
gas (LNG) operator, we produced 6% of global LNG supply 
in 2018 and operate two floating production storage and 
offloading facilities. 
We are delivering on our growth strategy, creating an 
integrated LNG production centre on the Burrup Peninsula  
in Western Australia. We are progressing development of  
the Scarborough and Browse gas resources through our 
existing producing assets, the Woodside-operated Pluto LNG 
and North West Shelf Project. We also have a participating  
interest in Wheatstone LNG. The LNG we produce is a low-emissions and economically 
viable fuel for markets across the globe. 
Technology and innovation are essential to our long-term 
sustainability. We are pioneering remote support and the 
application of artificial intelligence, embedding advanced analytics 
across our operations.
We are committed to upholding our values of integrity, respect, 
discipline, excellence, working sustainably and working together. 
Our success is driven by our people and we aim to attract, 
develop and retain a diverse, high-performing workforce. 
We recognise that enduring, meaningful relationships with 
communities are fundamental to maintaining our licence to operate. ABOUT  
WOODSIDE
Product type Phase
*Denotes marketing officeGas Oil Gas or oil Producing assets Projects and developments Appraisal and explorationOUR AREAS OF ACTIVITY
Singapore*Tokyo*Beijing*
Seoul*IRELAND BULGARIA
MOROCCO PERU TIMOR-LESTE/AUSTRALIA AUSTRALIA GABON SENEGALCANADA MYANMAR
2  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018OUR 
PERFORMANCE
3.4 %
ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
IMPROVEMENT 
AGAINST BASELINE1
3.7 %
INDIGENOUS 
EMPLOYMENT
1.3 2
TOTAL 
RECORDABLE 
INJURY RATE  
PER MILLION WORK HOURS
30.4 %
FEMALE  
REPRESENTATION
1. Against baseline performance, measured relative to energy efficiency prior to 2016.As Woodside enters a growth phase, our commitment  
to sustainability guides us.
We know that it is only through taking a responsible and long-
term approach that we can deliver value for our shareholders 
and our communities.
This approach informs decision-making at all levels of our 
business. For us, sustainability is a core part of our corporate 
culture and integral to our daily operations. It’s not an optional 
extra. It is, quite simply, who we are and how we do things. 
In this report, we explain how sustainability is interwoven 
through all of Woodside’s activities, shaping our approach, 
our people, our environment and our future across our 
global activities.
It’s evident in the economic contribution we make. We help 
sustain the economy by employing thousands of people and 
paying our taxes. In addition to paying almost A$900 million in 
taxes and royalties in Australia in 2018, we contributed millions 
of dollars to groups that sustain and enrich our communities. 
Our growth plans ensure this economic and social engagement 
will continue as our projects create opportunities throughout 
the value chain.
It’s evident in our commitment to be good stewards of 
the environment. This is our starting point as we pursue 
environmental approvals for our new projects, with the aim  
of managing and minimising our environmental impacts.
We take climate change seriously: we are working hard to 
deliver innovative energy solutions and to manage our own 
carbon emissions. Companies like ours have a big role to play  
in delivering the extra energy that the world needs while 
enabling the transition to a lower carbon economy. Natural 
gas, as a cleaner-burning fuel, will be crucial to achieving these 
global goals. Gas accounts for most of Woodside’s production 
and our growth portfolio.
Our commitment to sustainability is evident in the long-term 
relationships we forge in our communities, including with 
Indigenous people. As a company, we are on a journey and find 
ourselves at a very exciting point, with opportunities ahead.  
To realise those opportunities, we need to walk side by side 
with communities as we deliver our growth plans and the 
shared benefits that result.
In all our endeavours, we prioritise safety, devoting significant 
time and resources to prepare our staff for potential disruptions to operations and to minimising the risk of their occurrence. 
The safety of our staff, and of the many contractors and 
suppliers who work alongside us, is vitally important. 
As a committee, we support the company’s ongoing 
commitment to sustainability. This is crucial to both our daily 
operations and to the delivery of our growth plans that require 
responsible environmental management and deep engagement 
with communities.MESSAGE FROM 
OUR SUSTAINABILITY 
COMMITTEE CHAIR 
BOARD SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
Ann Pickard Melinda CilentoChristopher 
Haynes, OBE
Ian Macfarlane Sarah Ryan Larry ArchibaldAnn Pickard
Chair of the Sustainability 
Committee
4  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018Our focus is on the future as we pursue growth plans 
that will set Woodside’s path for decades to come.
Big investment decisions like those we face in the years 
ahead require us to think about how the world is changing 
and our role in it.
Changes are underway in energy markets as the world tries to 
reduce emissions while extending access to modern energy.
We think natural gas has a big role to play, as the cleanest 
burning fossil fuel and ideal partner for renewables. On the Burrup 
Peninsula, where sunlight is plentiful, we are developing options 
for integrating gas-fired and solar power to supply our operations.
We know we need to do more to manage our own emissions. 
We are taking a company-wide approach to abatement and 
have a dedicated team leading our efforts to offset emissions. 
We have committed to improving the energy efficiency of our 
operations and are a signatory of the World Bank Zero Routine 
Flaring Initiative and the Methane Guiding Principles. 
We are pleased that in 2018 we beat our em issions reduction 
target, through a combination of high reliability, reduced flaring 
and improvements to our facilities.
Our growth plans have implications for the communities where 
we are active. We have built long-term relationships with our 
host communities in Western Australia and intend to continue 
to engage respectfully as we execute our growth plans.
We bring the same approach to our community engagements, 
whether in Karratha, Senegal or Myanmar. As a values-led 
company, we talk with our staff about the importance of 
operating with transparency and integrity.
Health and safety is paramount in our industry and we have 
stepped up our efforts to engage all parts of the workforce.  
As our activity increases in 2019, we must be vigilant to ensure 
the safety of our staff and those who work alongside us.
As a company, sustainability is part of everything we do 
and will continue to inform our decisions and actions as 
we grow our operations. I would like to thank our staff for 
their commitment and Ann Pickard and the Sustainability 
Committee for overseeing our company-wide efforts. I also 
extend my gratitude to all those in the community who have 
engaged with us and continue to do so.MESSAGE  
FROM OUR 
CEO
Peter Coleman
Chief Executive Officer  
and Managing Director
SUSTAINABILITY 
IS PART OF 
EVERYTHING  
WE DO
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  5ECONOMIC BENEFITS
We have a strong history of generating economic benefits, helping to develop communities where we are 
active and providing sustainable energy to customers.
Economic benefits were provided to many stakeholders in 2018: from the dividends paid to shareholders to the wages we paid 
employees, the taxes and royalties we paid to governments, and contributions made to local communities through employment 
and contracting opportunities, partnership agreements, employee volunteering and direct funding. 
6 %
4.914 4 5.0
17.7OF GLOBAL LNG 
IS PRODUCED BY 
WOODSIDE
BILLION IN TAXES 
AND ROYALTIES 
OVER FIVE YEARSUS CENTS  
DIVIDEND PER 
SHARE IN 2018
MILLION IN WAGES 
IN 2018BILLION SPEND  
WITH OUR SUPPLIERS
MILLION IN SOCIAL 
CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2018WE ARE PROUD OF OUR 
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION
872
1. Figure converted from $US as at 31 December 2018
6  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018Working sustainably is one of our Compass values. This means we are here for the long term, we look 
after each other, our communities and the environment and we keep each other safe.
The 17 U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) came into effect in 2016, tackling the world’s most pressing economic, 
environmental and social issues. In 2018, we developed a strategy focused on the five SDGs that best align with our business 
operations and value chain, outlining our aspirations and deliverables.Sustainability 
principlesOperating with 
transparency 
and integrityCreating  
shared valueOperating 
safely and 
responsiblyBuilding  
a resilient 
businessFostering 
organisation  
and culturePRINCIPLES AND U.N. SDGs
SDG ASPIRATIONS DELIVERABLES
We will continue to supply LNG to 
displace coal and support intermittent 
renewables. We will also support 
the creation of LNG markets for 
transportation and remote power, and 
investigate low-carbon energy sources. +Commence deliveries of trucked LNG from Pluto in 2019 
 +For direct emissions, improve energy efficiency by 5% against 
baseline by 20201
 +Eliminate routine flaring from our oil facilities by 2030
We will continue to improve productivity 
and energy efficiency by embracing 
technology and innovation, and 
incorporating renewables at our assets.  +Improve our operations through adoption of more efficient 
technologies, and improvements in industrial processes, to meet 
our energy efficiency target 
 +Explore opportunities to incorporate renewable power 
generation into our portfolio
We collaborate with partners, peers and 
stakeholders for a competitive, low-
carbon economy and support initiatives 
that improve climate change resilience. +Continue to partner with academia to find new technology that 
unlocks affordable new energy and profitable carbon abatement
 +Promote the World Bank's Methane Guiding Principles initiative
 +Advocate for a global carbon price
 +Collaborate with peers to assess the commercial feasibility of 
LNG as a marine fuel between the Pilbara and North Asia
We uphold robust environmental 
management and process safety 
practices to minimise our impact on 
marine environments, and partner with 
research institutions to contribute to 
knowledge of these areas. +Maintain partnerships with research institutions to contribute to 
knowledge of marine environments in areas where we are active
 +Maintain memberships with global oil spill response organisations 
who provide access to world-leading spill response capabilities 
and technologies
We work together, combining our 
distinctive capabilities to deliver the 
best possible result. We aim to be the 
partner of choice wherever in the world 
we operate. +Continue to partner with peers, governments, academia and civil 
society groups to advance progress towards the goals
 +Leverage opportunities through existing partnerships and joint 
venture participants
1. Baseline performance is measured relative to energy efficiency prior to 2016.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  7MATERIALITY
Woodside considers sustainability topics to be material if they reflect our significant economic, environmental 
and social impacts, or if they significantly influence the assessments and decisions of our stakeholders. 
Each year, we conduct a materiality assessment to identify and 
understand the sustainability topics of significance to our key 
stakeholders and our business. The materiality assessment informs 
the development of this report and ensures we are adequately 
responding to topics considered key to our stakeholders. 
In 2018, our materiality assessment identified topics of concern, 
four of which were considered material: health and safety 
performance, social and cultural impacts on communities, 
climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, and fraud,  
anti-bribery and corruption.The inclusion in this list of social and cultural impacts on 
communities reflects the growing interest in our growth 
projects and a broader societal concern about how local 
communities benefit from business activities.
Major incident prevention and response, while material in 2017, 
were no longer considered material by external stakeholders 
but remain a focus for Woodside. 
Refer to the materiality section of our website for more 
information.
*Denotes 2018 material topic.Health and safety  
performance*
Social and cultural impacts  
on communities*
People, capability,  
inclusion and diversity
Human rights
Innovation and technology 
Cybersecurity
Future energy mix 
Growth readiness  
(see Annual Report 2018) 
Reserves replacement  
(see Annual Report 2018)Climate change and  
greenhouse gas emissions*
Environment 
Major incident response
Economic benefits 
Fraud, anti-bribery  
and corruption*
Supply chain and 
 local content
Transparency
Regulatory compliance 2018 TOPICS
OUR APPROACH OUR FUTUREOUR PEOPLE
OUR ENVIRONMENT
8  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018SUSTAINABILITY 
TARGETS
We set annual targets to measure our performance on material sustainability topics and challenge ourselves 
to do better. 
Our sustainability targets are included in our corporate scorecard, corporate Executive Committee dashboard, and divisional and 
functional performance agreements.
1. Includes both absolute emissions reductions and energy efficiency improvements of delivered projects
2. 2019 target of energy efficiency improvement against baseline performance (%) is measured relative to energy efficiency prior to 2016. This aligns with Woodside’s aim to 
improve energy efficiency by 5% by 2020, and includes both absolute emissions reductions and energy efficiency improvements of delivered projects. Sustainable emissions 
reductions, fuel and flare targets will still be monitored for performance. Refer to page 26 for more information.MATERIAL TOPIC 2018 TARGET 2018 PERFORMANCE 2019 TARGET
Health and safety 
performanceDemonstrate continuous 
improvement on 2017 to 
deliver leading health and 
safety performance1.32 TRIRDemonstrate continuous 
improvement on 2018 to 
deliver leading health and 
safety performance
Social and cultural impacts 
on communitiesTopic was not considered 
material in 2017Topic was not considered 
material in 2017Social impact management 
plans for communities 
where we are active
Positive progress 
against our 2016–2020 
Reconciliation Action Plan
Climate change and 
greenhouse gas emissionsSustainable emissions 
reductions of 80 kt CO₂e 
against baselineDelivered 138 kt CO₂e 
sustained emissions 
savings in calendar year1Achieve 4% energy 
efficiency improvement 
against baseline2
Fraud, anti-bribery  
and corruptionZero violations of anti-
bribery and corruption 
laws within or in 
connection with WoodsideZero violations of 
anti-bribery and 
corruption laws within 
or in connection with 
WoodsideZero material violations 
of anti-bribery and 
corruption laws within 
or in connection with 
Woodside
Major incident preventionZero Tier 1 Process Safety 
Events (PSEs) and two or 
fewer Tier 2 PSEs1 Tier 1 PSE and  
1 Tier 2 PSETopic was not considered 
material in 2018
Major incident response95% Global Assurance 
Benchmark Spill 
Preparedness rating – 
Readiness Evaluation Tool 
for Oil Spills (RETOS 2)100% Global Assurance 
Benchmark Spill 
Preparedness rating 
achieved (RETOS 2)Topic was not considered 
material in 2018
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Overview  9GOVERNANCE
We believe that adopting and operating in accordance with high standards of corporate governance is 
essential for sustainable long-term performance and value creation. 
Governance 
Our approach to sustainability is incorporated in our 
management system including our policies, procedures and 
Code of Conduct (the Code). 
Woodside’s Board of Directors has oversight of the 
company’s management and business activities. The 
Sustainability Committee assists the Board to meet its 
responsibilities in relation to the company’s sustainability 
policies, expectations and procedures. The Sustainability 
Committee, as at 31 December 2018, was comprised of six 
independent, non-executive directors. 
For more information on our corporate governance model, 
refer to the Annual Report 2018.
Identifying and managing risk 
Risk is inherent in our business. It is crucial that we maintain 
a robust and disciplined focus on operational excellence and 
effective risk management. 
By understanding and managing our risks, our business is able 
to perform effectively and provide protection to our people, 
communities and the environment. We systematically assess 
the consequence of risk in areas such as health and safety, 
environment, and social and cultural impacts. 
Woodside’s Audit & Risk Committee oversees our Risk 
Management Policy and is responsible for satisfying itself 
that management has developed and implemented an 
effective risk-management system and internal controls.
The Board maintained oversight of material topics during 
2018, and monitored emerging issues and risks. 
Refer to page 8 for more information on the materiality 
process and 2018 material topics. 
For more information on Woodside’s key governance and 
risk-management principles and practices, refer to our 
Corporate Governance Statement.Business ethics
Our core values of integrity, respect, discipline, excellence, 
working sustainably and working together are set out in the 
Woodside Compass. These values underpin the Code, which 
sets out our commitment to ethical business principles. 
In 2018, the Code was updated with clearer requirements on 
training for service-provider personnel and further guidance on the 
management of employee external commitments. The Code was 
also translated into French in support of our operations in Senegal. 
It is the responsibility of every director, employee and contractor 
to be familiar and comply with the Code. All employees undergo 
mandatory training on the Code when they join the company 
and annual compliance training thereafter. Records of training 
are maintained by Woodside’s General Counsel. 
All directors, employees, and contractors are required to report 
potential violations of the Code. All breaches are recorded, 
investigated and the outcomes reported to the Board. Appropriate 
disciplinary action is undertaken if violations are substantiated, up 
to and including termination of employment. 
Our Whistleblower Policy outlines processes for responding 
to allegations of misconduct. Employees and our stakeholders 
have access to a confidential, externally-managed helpline 
for reporting misconduct. All calls are referred to the General 
Counsel for investigation as appropriate. There were  
11 reports to the confidential helpline in 2018.
Code of Conduct investigations are overseen by a senior 
management steering group. Our Audit & Risk Committee 
reviewed reports on misconduct investigations, breaches of the 
Code, and matters reported to the external helpline. 
There were 120 allegations of improper behaviour or breaches 
of the Code investigated in 2018. Sixty four allegations were 
substantiated and 56 were unsubstantiated. A further 11 allegations 
remain under or pending investigation. Outcomes for the 
employees and contractors responsible for the substantiated 
breaches include 11 contracts being terminated or not renewed,  
11 written warnings and 23 verbal warnings. Three terminations 
were fraud-related. 
10  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018OUR PEOPLEHEALTH AND SAFETY 
PERFORMANCEMATERIAL TOPIC
Woodside’s health and safety (H&S) performance is essential to our success and growth. We are 
committed to managing our activities to protect our people and our host communities.
Our approach
Woodside aims to continuously improve towards the goal 
of achieving industry-leading H&S performance. In 2018, we 
achieved a total recordable injury rate (TRIR) of 1.32, just over 
our target of 1.30. 
In response to declining H&S performance in early 2018, we 
collaborated with our contractors through a leadership forum 
to develop innovative solutions. In 2019, we continue to 
progress these solutions including hosting an intensive two-
week safety activity with our key contractors to identify ways 
to prevent injuries. 
In 2018, our lost time injury frequency improved by 52%. 
Our high potential incidents have reduced by 46% and the 
identification of high potential hazards has improved by 54%. 
Refer to the case study on page 14 for more information.2018 HIGHLIGHTS
 +Perfect HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) Day 
discussions in our operations have led to a visible 
improvement in safety culture and performance, achieving 
our best operations safety performance to date
 +Global Institute of Chemical Engineers Award winner  
for enabling improvement in process safety through  
data analytics
 +Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration 
Association Safety Excellence Award winner
OPPORTUNITIES RISKS
 +Implement the safety 
perception survey 
improvement plan to 
mature safety culture  +Failure to maintain 
a healthy and safe 
workplace
 +Strengthen H&S 
leadership capability 
across the business, 
including with our 
contractors and suppliers +Failure to engage with 
our contractors and 
suppliers to improve H&S 
outcomes
 +Further embed mental 
wellbeing culture across 
the organisation +Failure to deliver a 
trusting, safe work culture 
with our employees
17512
18221
16617
15816
14719
1.291.321.641.711.90Total recordable injuries (TRI) and total recordable injury 
rate (TRIR)
 Contractor TRI
 Woodside TRIR Employee TRI
0.430.61
0.220.28 0.29
1403
1533
1613
1814
1708Lost time injuries (LTI) and lost time injury frequency (LTIF)
 Contractor LTI
 Woodside LTIF Employee LTI
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT
12  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018Safer Together
We played a leading role in steering industry-wide engagement 
and collaboration to support the formation of the new Safer 
Together industry group for Western Australia and the 
Northern Territory (WA/NT). Modelled on the success of the 
Safer Together Queensland organisation, the group aims to 
deliver sustainable industry safety-performance improvement. 
Safer Together WA/NT has more than 60 company members 
across the oil and gas value chain and is led by 20 senior in-
country leaders from operators and contractors. In September 
2018, we chaired the inaugural forum in Perth, which attracted 
more than 150 attendees.
Our safety culture
A strong HSE culture where people go “beyond the call of 
duty” to keep each other safe and protect the environment is 
critical to sustaining performance improvements. 
In 2018, we conducted a safety culture survey across the 
company to understand our people’s perceptions and attitudes 
to safety. The survey measured our safety culture maturity, 
allowing benchmarking across sites and against best-practice 
organisations. We had a strong response to the survey with 
more than 2,600 employees and contractors participating. 
While the results showed we are on par with our industry 
average, we are not where we would like to be. In response,  
we have identified improvement areas and integrated these 
into our future activity plans.
We strongly believe in building a safety culture in which our 
people are empowered to take action to prevent injuries 
and thoroughly investigate incidents. We will focus on 
strengthening H&S leadership, increasing recognition and  
off-the-job safety awareness in 2019.
We continued to engage our workforce in Perfect HSE Day 
discussions, raising situational awareness and the risk profile  
of tasks at hand each day.
We also developed a new framework to improve our HSE 
representatives’ competencies, skills and awareness through 
structured collaboration. The program ensures our HSE 
representatives feel supported and confident in their role as HSE 
leaders. This helps attract passionate and motivated individuals 
to improve HSE culture and performance across the business.
OUR FUTURE OUR APPROACH
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our people  13HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
CASE STUDY
A workplace that promotes wellbeing
A transformative focus was placed on the design of the 
working environment for Woodside’s new Mia Yellagonga 
campus in Perth. This philosophy combines physical and 
mental wellbeing requirements to create a collaborative 
workplace where people can perform at their best and feel 
happier, stay healthier and enhance the blend of work and life. 
The design of Mia Yellagonga maximises the use of natural 
light combined with visual and physical ergonomics to create 
a vibrant working environment to encourage collaboration 
and connectivity. An on-site allied health support service improves our people’s accessibility to health services at work. 
The breadth of wellness facilities encourages participation 
in physical activities including swimming, cycling and use of 
gym facilities. 
The campus was designed to welcome family members 
and includes shared spaces for our community partners. 
Connecting business performance with human effectiveness 
builds and maintains social, family and community 
relationships. This is an active psychosocial risk 
management approach. 
CASE STUDY
Enhancing incident investigations
A key element of Woodside’s health, safety and 
environment (HSE) management system is having 
processes in place to investigate and learn from incidents 
and hazards. To prevent reoccurrence we must learn from 
every event and address the root cause. 
Over the past two years we implemented these 
improvements:
 +Simplified and improved the investigation methodology 
and tools to provide greater clarity of requirements to 
the investigators
 +Developed the investigative capability within the 
business to improve the quality of investigations +Ensured similar risks in other parts of the business were 
also investigated and addressed
 +Increased emphasis on exploring human factors and 
understanding the behaviours that may have contributed 
to the event
 +Enabled the use of tools, including our intelligent digital 
research assistant, to interrogate historical event data
 +Management review of the investigation outcomes to 
ensure they are supported and prioritised.
Our 2018 safety culture survey identified “thoroughness in 
investigation of injuries and incidents” as a key strength. 
Our future focus is to further embed these improvements.
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT
14  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018Process safety 
Process safety describes a framework for managing asset 
integrity across the value chain through disciplined application 
of systems and processes.
With assets operating across the life cycle from start-up 
through life extension and into decommissioning, Woodside 
defines and applies rigorous maintenance schedules to manage 
the integrity of our structures, equipment, piping and wells to 
minimise the risk of loss of containment, or hydrocarbon release. 
Our approach 
In 2018, we continued to embed process safety through a risk-
based approach, focusing on visible leadership and operational 
discipline. We also continued our process safety competency 
program to ensure our people have the skills to manage process 
safety risks. 
Woodside proactively identified risks through continuing 
HAZOP (hazard and operability study) and LOPA (layers of 
protection analysis) for our assets. 
To drive further process safety improvements, we aligned our 
process safety framework with our company-wide management 
system to ensure a consistent delivery across our operations 
and projects. This will be implemented in 2019 and will help 
identify focus areas and prevent process safety events.
Our 2018 performance 
Woodside categorises and reports process safety events (PSE) 
against the American Petroleum Institute Recommended 
Practice 754 (API 754). 
During the year, there was one Tier 1 and one Tier 2 loss of 
primary containment PSEs. Both were internally investigated 
and reported to the regulator. Root causes and actions were 
identified to prevent recurrence. CASE STUDY
Bespoke training avoids plant trips
Unplanned temporary shutdowns of our LNG facilities, 
or ‘trips’ as they are commonly called, are an important 
safety measure but can interrupt production, increase 
flaring, reduce energy efficiency and require significant 
resources to restore normal operations.
To reduce the likelihood of a trip, our plant operators 
developed trip mitigation training sessions for our 
Karratha Life Extension (KLE) contractors. The hands-
on training courses were delivered in a decommissioned 
section of the plant to create a real-life training 
environment, educating contractors on the potential 
hazards of their work environment and how they may 
unexpectedly trigger a plant trip through maintenance 
activities such as erecting or removing scaffolding.
Since introducing the training in April 2018, 86% of our 
KLE contractors completed the course and there have 
been no related plant trips.Tier 1 and 2 loss of primary containment process safety 
event (LOPC PSE)
The Tier 1 PSE in 2018 involved the release of crude oil product in a pump room, with no injuries 
sustained or release to the environment. Tier 2 LOPC PSE Tier 1 LOPC PSE
1811
1611
170
1502
1402
OUR FUTURE OUR APPROACH
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our people  15An engaged and enabled workforce underpins our ability to deliver superior shareholder returns.  
We recognise that a key contributor to our success is an inclusive culture that increases a sense of belonging.
Inclusion and diversity 
In 2018, we progressed our 2016–2020 Elevate Reconciliation 
Action Plan (RAP) and commenced an updated three-year 
inclusion and gender diversity strategy. 
We maintain a continued focus on enabling and engaging women 
at all stages of their career and investing in a pipeline of female 
talent. Overall female representation increased from 29% in 2017 to 30.4%, comparing favourably against our industry average. 
Voluntary turnover reduced from 4.5% in 2017 to 3.6% and the 
return rate from parental leave remains high at 97%. 
We continue to improve diversity within the workforce, 
primarily through our development programs. The overall 
percentage of females in our intake for the 2019 graduate 
development program increased to 51%, including 50% females 
in technical roles. 
Initiatives to build Woodside’s culture of inclusion have been 
promoted through our community groups such as Woodside 
Reconciliation Community (WRC), Gender Equality Matters 
(GEM) and our LGBTI network, Spectrum. In 2018, all groups 
achieved growth in membership across our locations. 
We increased our directly employed Indigenous workforce 
year-on-year. In 2018, we directly employed 130 Indigenous 
employees (3.7% of the total workforce), compared to 117 in 
2017 (3.3% of total workforce). Voluntary Indigenous turnover 
remained steady at 2.4%.
Much of this positive growth in, and retention of, our Indigenous 
workforce has been driven through our sustainable pathways 
programs, strong graduate intake and ongoing engagement. 
In 2018, we had 31 Karratha-based Indigenous apprentices and 
trainees, 12 Indigenous vacation students undergoing tertiary 
study and work placement and 8 Indigenous candidates on the 
graduate development program. To support community-based 
careers and future employment opportunities within Woodside, 
we awarded 34 Indigenous scholarships, up from 21 in 2017.PEOPLE, CAPABILITY, 
INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY
2018 HIGHLIGHTS
 +Announced a transition to a predominantly residential 
operational workforce in Karratha
 +Increased female and Indigenous workforce 
representation
 +Increased membership of inclusion and diversity 
community groups
2019 PRIORITIES
 +Progress transition to a predominantly residential 
operational workforce in Karratha
 +Progress RAP priorities
 +Enhance diverse workforce representation
 +Increase technical discipline opportunities
Female representation
COMPANY-WIDE18 16 17 15 14
30.429.028.428.227.5
EXECUTIVES18 16 17 15 14
24.423.919.612.89.8
SENIOR18 16 17 15 14
19.317.615.913.812.4
MID-LEVEL18 16 17 15 14
30.528.629.428.827.9
% of female representation
18 16 17 15 14
51.050.050.049.044.0
GRADUATE
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT
16  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018CASE STUDY
Driving an inclusive culture
Woodside is proud to report on recent achievements of our 
three inclusion and diversity community groups in 2018. 
Gender Equality Matters (GEM) and Spectrum (LGBTI+ and 
allies) promote a positive and inclusive workplace culture 
by raising awareness of, and addressing, gender- and 
sexuality-based discrimination and inequality. Woodside 
Reconciliation Community (WRC) fosters cross-cultural 
dialogue with our Indigenous stakeholders both in the 
company and in our communities. 
Together, these employee-driven initiatives provide an 
environment for learning and sharing stories in a respectful 
and engaging way. 
GEM 
GEM is a broad community of over 1,000 Woodside staff, 
male and female, who are committed to lifting the bar on 
gender equality and inclusion. Formerly named Women of 
Woodside, GEM has experienced a significant membership 
increase of 18%, exceeding the stretch goal of 10% annual 
growth. Male membership now represents 28% of GEM, 
compared to 5% in 2017 and men are now joining GEM at 
a greater rate than women. This outstanding achievement 
highlights the influence of “Man Up” (a male-run GEM sub-
committee), and a name-change to more explicitly describe 
the purpose and inclusive nature of the group. Spectrum
Spectrum membership has also grown by 21% indicating 
an increasing influence of the group. In the past 18 months, 
Spectrum has hosted 12 LGBTI+ ally training sessions 
reaching 500 Woodside employees, and launched ally 
lunches providing a safe place for allies to share challenges 
and insights. 
Spectrum proudly participated in the Australian Ally 
Conference and our Perth headquarters, Mia Yellagonga, 
was lit up for Wear it Purple Day. We also participated in the 
Australian Workplace Equality Index, allowing, for the first-
time, evaluation of our LGBTI inclusion by a national body, 
Pride in Diversity. Demonstrating its success, Spectrum was 
announced as a finalist for ‘New LGBTI Employee Network’ in 
the 2019 Australian LGBTI Awards. 
WRC
The WRC hosted numerous events aimed at raising 
awareness of reconciliation issues, sharing cultural 
knowledge and connecting people. 
A highlight was the collaborative effort with the Woodside 
Indigenous Collegiate and the Woodside Headquarters 
Project Team to bring Mia Yellagonga to life on the final 
day of NAIDOC Week. This marked a significant milestone 
in the relationship between Woodside and the Noongar 
community, with a cleansing of the site by Whadjuk elders 
and leaders prior to the move to the new campus. In the 
spirit of NAIDOC Week, various celebrations were held after 
the cleansing ceremony to showcase Indigenous cultures.
SPECTRUMGENDER  
EQUALITY  
MATTERSRECONCILIATION 
COMMUNITY
I’M FOR 
INCLUSION
Woodside staff at the 2018 Perth Pride Parade
OUR FUTURE OUR APPROACH
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our people  17Leadership and development
We are committed to developing our people, focusing on 
experience and coaching, and providing development programs 
to ensure we have the capability required to sustain growth. 
In 2018, we refreshed our leadership framework. New leadership 
expectations were aligned with the refreshed Compass and 
increased focus on the capabilities required to deliver our 
business strategy. Several new leadership development programs 
were launched to enable all employees to access learning 
opportunities and build them into their development plans.Karratha workforce
Recognising our growth projects will result in operations on the 
Burrup for up to 50 more years, we are focused on growing our 
residential workforce in Karratha.
In December 2018, Woodside advised employees that Karratha 
Gas Plant and Pluto LNG would transition to a predominantly 
residential operating model, enabling our people to live where 
they work and build a strong team and community connection. 
In support of this transition, we are also progressing plans to 
provide our people with the opportunity to purchase their 
company-provided housing in Karratha. 
PEOPLE, CAPABILITY, INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT
18  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018SOCIAL AND CULTURAL 
IMPACTS ON COMMUNITIESMATERIAL TOPIC
Woodside supports and engages with our communities to create a sustainable future. 
We’ve built genuine and long-term relationships with our 
stakeholders and host communities over more than 60 years. 
As our business expands internationally, we are transferring 
our learnings from Australia to build similar strong relationships 
with our host communities overseas. 
Our approach 
We understand our operations can impact the social and 
cultural wellbeing of the communities where we are active. 
For this reason, we endeavour to understand and minimise 
any negative impacts and enhance positive impacts through 
meaningful engagement. 
Our interactions with the communities are guided by our 
Sustainable Communities Policy, which applies to all activities 
under Woodside operational control. Our managers promote 
the policy in joint ventures where we are not the operator. 
In these circumstances, we complete due-diligence of the business opportunity prior to entry and also review key studies 
conducted by the operator on behalf of the joint venture to 
ensure alignment with our policy.
Our Community Relations Charter provides a robust framework 
to manage stakeholder relations, expectations and issues in a 
respectful, values-driven way. 
We conduct SIAs for all major development activities and 
use five-yearly social scans to inform our management plans 
as appropriate. 
Meaningful engagement  
We emphasise open and transparent communication and 
feedback on our activities. 
To support our ongoing operations in Western Australia, we 
hosted four community liaison group meetings in Karratha 
and participated in three joint-operator meetings in Exmouth 
in 2018. These engagements help us to better understand 
community perspectives on issues such as job creation, local 
contracting opportunities, environmental impacts and to 
communicate operational and development activities. 
We regularly engage with our social investment partners, 
government representatives, civil society organisations and 
local businesses in these regions and our international locations 
of Senegal and Myanmar. 
Effectively addressing community concerns  
Our Community Grievance Mechanism Procedure provides 
a framework for receiving, responding to and closing out 
grievances in a consistent manner. 
We received four grievances from community stakeholders in 
2018. Two of these related to the location of construction vessels in 
the Exmouth Gulf and the change in the fixed-wing flight schedule 
in Exmouth. Work to resolve these concerns is ongoing. 
We also received correspondence from local government in 
Karratha in relation to several local concerns, including vacant 
housing and plans for a short-term accommodation facility, 
which were addressed via consultation. 
During the year we strengthened our grievance mechanism 
procedure to define communication channels, grievance 
priority levels and their associated reporting requirements. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS
 +Completion of environment and social impact 
assessments (ESIA) in Senegal and Myanmar 
 +Launch of the Karratha Jobs Portal 
 +Positive progress against the 2016–2020 Elevate 
Reconciliation Action Plan 
OPPORTUNITIES RISKS
 +Deliver economic benefits 
through local employment 
and contracting 
opportunities  +Failure to identify, 
understand and manage 
key external stakeholders 
 +Continue engagements 
with Indigenous 
stakeholders to facilitate 
growth projects including 
the review of existing and 
new agreements +Failure to maintain our 
social licence to operate 
 +Enhance community 
capacity building to 
support our growth 
projects +Inadequate management 
of social contributions
 +Target social investments 
to address community 
impact areas  +Potential disturbance to 
cultural practices and 
preservation 
OUR FUTURE OUR APPROACH
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our people  19Understanding and managing our impacts  
We completed SIAs in Karratha and Roebourne in 2017, 
which identified housing, local employment and business 
opportunities as key community impacts of our operations on 
the Burrup. In line with this, we delivered a housing strategy 
to manage properties in the City of Karratha and introduced 
employment and contracting initiatives, including launching the 
online Karratha Jobs Portal. 
Refer to the Half-Year Report 2018 for more information on the 
Karratha Jobs Portal. 
The redevelopment of the Bay Village accommodation facility 
in Karratha was informed by a social impact management plan 
to enhance community integration. Bay Village is planned to 
be a 604-bed modern, landscaped village with a nightly shuttle 
bus and a social integration coordinator to support links with 
the local community. 
In October 2018, we commenced SIAs and a community 
perception survey for our Burrup Hub developments. The SIAs 
will assess the direct and indirect social effects of the Burrup 
Hub projects and identify strategies to address the issues, 
impacts and opportunities raised by the community. Preliminary 
consultation on the potential impacts was completed in Broome, 
Karratha and Roebourne in late 2018. 
In support of our SNE field development in Senegal, Woodside 
led an ESIA, which involved a suite of comprehensive 
environmental studies and consultation with more than 50 local 
coastal communities to inform a social baseline survey. The ESIA 
identified key environmental impacts associated with proposed 
development activities and socioeconomic impacts, including employment and local content opportunities, potential shipping 
disruption and limited impact to fishing communities. Mitigation 
measures for these impacts are outlined in the ESIA. 
Woodside continues to engage communities in Myanmar to 
inform the planning and execution of our activities. These 
engagements have suggested there was likely to be very little, 
if any, interaction between Woodside’s offshore exploration 
activities and local fishing activities. Subsequent drilling operations 
have had minimal interaction with offshore fishing vessels.
Refer to the consultation documents on our website for more 
information.
Enhancing local opportunities  
We are focused on local training and employment initiatives in 
the Pilbara. Our training provider, Programmed, recruited 44 local 
people for training and apprenticeships and the North West Shelf 
housing refurbishment program head contractor engaged 25 local 
sub-contractors and 51 Indigenous employees.
In Senegal we have progressed capacity-building opportunities 
including supporting Invest in Africa’s establishment, a not-
for-profit organisation focused on supporting local suppliers 
to gain access to skills, contracts and finance; and the 
establishment of the Senegalese Government’s Institut National 
du Pétrole et du Gaz to train future leaders in the petroleum 
industry, while creating a technical workforce that can compete 
on a global scale. 
We are also helping to build local knowledge and capacity in 
Myanmar through a partnership with Yangon Technological 
University (YTU) that provides practical work experience 
for petroleum engineering students. We also support a 
professional development program delivered at YTU by 
Western Australia’s Curtin University. SOCIAL AND CULTURAL IMPACTS ON COMMUNITIES
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT
20  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018Our Indigenous communities  
Woodside understands the importance of identifying and 
working with people who have cultural connections to the 
land and waters where we are active. This is embedded in our 
Indigenous Communities Policy. 
Similarly, we demonstrate respect and act with integrity to support 
economic, social and cultural outcomes for Indigenous people. 
In Western Australia, we maintain relationships with Indigenous 
communities in the Pilbara, Kimberley and South West regions. 
We host regular and meaningful engagements with 
key Indigenous stakeholders on our current activities in 
Western Australia and our Burrup Hub growth plans. These 
engagements reflect our intention to manage and minimise the 
impacts of our operations and enhance outcomes in the areas 
of cultural heritage, education, training, employment, social 
investment and community wellbeing. 
Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP)  
Woodside has been part of Reconciliation Australia’s RAP 
program since 2009 and reconciliation activities are now 
integral to the way we do business. Our current 2016–2020 
RAP was awarded ‘Elevate’ status by Reconciliation Australia 
for its focus on outcomes tailored to business needs and 
guided by host communities. 
Throughout 2018 we continued to make positive progress 
against our 2016–2020 Elevate RAP, with particular 
improvements in Indigenous business participation in 
Woodside projects. The 2018 RAP Report will be released in 
May 2019.
Cultural awareness training was undertaken by more than 
400 Karratha production employees and 54 employees 
participated in Noongar Indigenous language sessions.
We have also embraced cultural recognition at our new Perth 
headquarters by incorporating Indigenous names for areas of the 
campus, using the colours of the six local Indigenous seasons in 
the fit-out and hosting traditional smoking ceremonies.Cultural heritage 
Woodside has operated gas and LNG facilities on the Burrup 
Peninsula, known as Murujuga, for more than 30 years. We value 
the relationships we have built with the traditional owners in this 
time. With input from traditional owners, we have developed 
and implemented comprehensive cultural heritage management 
plans to ensure the heritage values of the area are protected. 
We participated in the Western Australian Government’s 
newly formed Murujuga Rock Art Stakeholder Reference 
Group. The group aims to provide advice on the design, 
implementation and analysis of scientific monitoring, consult 
other stakeholders and inform the Government’s broader 
consideration of the protection of rock art on Murujuga.
We make significant efforts to monitor and manage our 
environmental impacts on cultural heritage, including rock 
art. We conducted an annual heritage audit of Pluto leases 
on the Burrup Peninsula that found no disturbance to any 
cultural heritage sites. Anthropological surveys, involving 
senior men and women traditional owners, were conducted 
over leases at KGP and adjacent areas. The outcomes of these 
surveys continue to inform our understanding of the cultural 
heritage values within our lease areas and enhance the ongoing 
management and conservation of these significant areas. 
Coastal cultural heritage in Senegal was also considered as part 
of the SNE field development ESIA. Due to the distance of the 
development from the coastline, coastal cultural heritage is not 
expected to be impacted during routine operations.
OUR FUTURE OUR APPROACH
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our people  21SOCIAL AND CULTURAL IMPACTS ON COMMUNITIES
A$12 .7
MILLIONA$1.1
MILLION
A$1.8
MILLIONA$2 .1
MILLIONPhilanthropy 
Our philanthropy was provided 
through small-scale community 
grants and programs.
Woodside Development Fund
The Woodside Development Fund  
aims to improve early childhood 
outcomes for children  
0-8 years old.Volunteering
40% of the workforce participated in corporate 
volunteering and 73 organisations and 57 schools 
directly benefited from our volunteering efforts.2018  
SOCIAL  
CONTRIBUTIONStrategic partnerships
Our strategic partnerships support 
initiatives that achieve mutual benefits 
with our host communities.Social contribution
In 2018, Woodside contributed A$17.7 million to communities 
via our strategic partnerships, the Woodside Development 
Fund and philanthropic contributions including the value of 
employee time spent volunteering. This was in addition to the 
leveraged spend1 of A$19.3 million contributed through our 
joint ventures, employees, government funding partnerships 
and other co-funded initiatives Woodside is involved in.
1. Additional resources contributed to a community organisation or activity that come from sources other than Woodside.We continued to work with communities, governments and 
industry to support our three key outcome areas. These aim 
to create opportunities, improve knowledge and build the 
resilience of the communities where Woodside is active. 
To achieve these outcomes, we have aligned our social 
contribution approach across four focus areas: education and 
early childhood development; environment; technology and 
innovation; and arts, culture and community. 
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT
22  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018A new Centre for Long Subsea Tiebacks was launched at 
the University of Western Australia. The Centre will build 
our understanding of the science behind hostile deep-sea 
conditions, enhance the economic feasibility of remote 
offshore prospects and generate innovative solutions to 
minimise environmental impacts.Arts and culture partners Barking Gecko Theatre Company 
and the West Australian Ballet extended programs 
to include performances and educational workshops 
in Karratha, Dampier and Roebourne. These activities 
reached more than 700 young people during 2018.The Dampier Peninsula Family Empowerment Partnership 
played an integral role in the formation of steering 
committees representing family kinship groups across 
the Peninsula area. The project is a key platform and pilot 
strategy, influencing change to create a unified approach 
to improve outcomes for children aged up to eight years.
Woodside recognised 25 years of collaboration with the 
Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS) and 20 years 
with the Western Australian Museum (WAM) in 2018. Better 
understanding and management of reef systems are key 
outcomes of the AIMS Scott Reef monitoring program, one of 
the longest running coral reef programs in the Indian Ocean.2018 SOCIAL 
INVESTMENT 
BY FOCUS 
AREA
INNOVATION AND 
TECHNOLOGYARTS, CULTURE  
AND COMMUNITYEDUCATION AND EARLY 
CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT
ENVIRONMENT21%27% 40%
12%
OUR FUTURE OUR APPROACH
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our people  23Woodside is committed to conducting business in a way that respects the human rights of all people, 
including our employees, the communities where we are active and those working within our supply chain.
Our 2018 performance
Maturing our approach 
Woodside adopted its Human Rights Policy in 2017. To ensure 
the intent of the policy is embedded in all areas of the business, 
we continued to progress a number of initiatives. This includes 
integrating human rights considerations into our management 
system and the development of a training framework for our 
employees, executives and the Board. An external expert 
provided human rights and modern slavery awareness sessions 
to our Executive Committee and Board in late 2018 and an 
employee training module will be launched in early 2019. 
We have commenced a human rights risk assessment on our 
exploration, development and production activities. The risk 
assessment will be finalised in early 2019 and is expected to 
help guide our future activities. Australian modern slavery legislation 
The Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018 was enacted into law in 
late 2018. The legislation requires Australian businesses with an 
annual revenue of more than A$100 million to report annually 
on their efforts to identify and address modern slavery risks in 
their operations and supply chain. 
We engaged with the Australian Government during the year 
in support of the legislation and we intend to report in line with 
the Act. 
Managing security 
As a signatory to the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights (VPSHR), we are committed to respecting 
internationally-recognised human rights security standards 
across all our operations. 
We enhanced our security and human rights framework by 
developing standardised contractual requirements for security 
providers. We also conducted in-country assurance reviews, 
matured our risk assessment process and enhanced our due-
diligence and conformity assessment processes for joint venture 
participants and security providers. 
Over the course of the year, we also conducted VPSHR 
awareness sessions at six of our locations across Australia, 
Timor-Leste, Myanmar, the USA and Canada. 
There were no reported human rights security incidents in 2018. 
Managing our supply chain 
We commenced implementing a supply-chain human rights 
framework, with particular focus on high-risk suppliers 
specific to the oil and gas industry. 
Our Supplier Code of Business Conduct was strengthened 
to explicitly outline our human rights expectations and we 
developed new human rights provisions for our contractual 
terms and conditions. 
We also developed a standard modern slavery supplier-
assessment questionnaire in collaboration with our peers, and 
a specific contract delivery requirement to incorporate into 
high-risk contracts. These new controls have already been 
implemented into our tender process for major fabrication 
packages for our growth projects. HUMAN RIGHTS
2018 HIGHLIGHTS
 +Integrated human rights considerations into our 
management system
 +Conducted awareness sessions for the Executive 
Committee and Board
 +Implemented the supply-chain human rights framework
2019 PRIORITIES
 +Deliver inaugural human rights training for employees 
 +Address recommendations from the human rights risk 
assessment of our operations
 +Implement the supplier due-diligence process
 +Develop an approach to modern slavery supplier audits 
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT
24  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018OUR  
ENVIRONMENTWoodside is taking action on climate change and we are motivated to be a key player in a clean energy future.
We are well positioned to play a role in a lower carbon energy 
future. Our LNG can displace coal-fired power generation and 
provide firming capacity to help resolve intermittency issues 
associated with renewable energy. 
In 2018, we refreshed our climate change strategy to consider 
these risks and opportunities, which allowed us to deliver 
sustainable value by:
 +Continuing to focus on reducing our own emissions intensity
 +Maintaining and growing a long-term resilient portfolio 
 +Advocating for a competitive, lower carbon economy.
Our goal is to improve our energy efficiency by 5% from 
baseline performance1 by 2020, and develop new opportunities 
for LNG to displace higher-emission fuels. Beyond this, 
leadership attention has progressed to considering sustainable 
and resilient longer-term targets.Reducing our emissions
Woodside’s Scope 1 operated emissions decreased in 2018. 
Our overall Scope 1 equity emissions increased due to a full-
year of LNG production and commissioning of Train 2 at the 
non-operated Wheatstone Project.
Since 2016, we have improved our energy efficiency by 3.4%1 
against baseline performance and we are on track to achieve  
our 2020 target of 5%. 
We delivered a total of nine energy efficiency improvements 
across our operated asset portfolio in 2018, including:
Increasing the operating pressure of the Pluto LNG processing  
train, to facilitate an increase in annual LNG production for no 
extra energy input
Turning off one compressor at KGP’s domestic gas facilities 
when energy demand is low, saving more than 1,000 tonnes of 
fuel per month when applied.CLIMATE CHANGE  
AND GREENHOUSE  
GAS EMISSIONSMATERIAL TOPIC
2018 HIGHLIGHTS
 +3.4% energy efficiency improvement against baseline1
 +Reduced our flaring by 16.3% from 2017 (operated basis)
 +Signed the Methane Guiding Principles and conducted a 
gap analysis to identify and prioritise actions
OPPORTUNITIES RISKS
 +Increased demand for 
lower carbon fuels, 
especially in sectors that 
have few zero-carbon 
alternatives +Reduced demand for our 
products and constraints 
to our ability to create and 
deliver shareholder value
 +Climate change and air-
quality policies encourage 
coal-to-gas switching +Increased investor 
concerns and risk of 
reputational damage
 +Gas as an ideal partner for 
renewables  +Uncertainty around global 
carbon policy
 +Improving our energy 
efficiency to allow us to 
convert more reserves to 
saleable product +Physical impacts of climate 
change
1.  Baseline performance is measured relative to energy efficiency prior to 2016.Scope 1 & 2 operated emissions by source
16 17 15 14 18 Flare
 Venting Fuel combustion
 Other12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0kt C02e
Scope 1 equity emissions
16 17 15 14 18 Non-operated 
emissions Operated 
emissions 4,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0kt C02e3,0003,500
OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR PEOPLE
26  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018We reduced flared gas by 16.3% from 2017 (operated 
basis), through high reliability at Pluto LNG and targeted 
maintenance at KGP.
We are also incorporating energy efficiency measures into our 
developments, including the planned installation of large-
scale batteries for Pluto Train 2 Project, reducing the need 
for hydrocarbon-based back-up power generation and its 
associated emissions.
To support our growth projects, we established a dedicated 
team to manage and deliver our carbon offset portfolio. 
Managing physical climate change impacts
We ensure our assets withstand any future physical impacts 
from climate change and we monitor and apply the latest 
research in this area. This was recognised by the 2018 Carbon 
Disclosure Project report that ranked Woodside as first (best) 
in regards to managing physical risk out of our peer group.
Refer to the 2018 Carbon Disclosure Project report  for more 
information.
Maintaining and growing a long-term resilient 
portfolio 
In testing the resilience of our portfolio, we consider sensitivities 
across a range of variables, including commodity prices, carbon 
prices, exchange rates and interest rates. The values of these 
sensitivities are based on several internal and external scenarios, 
including the International Energy Agency (IEA) sustainable 
development scenario, which aligns with the Paris Agreement 
ambition to hold global temperature rises below 2 degrees Celsius 
this century. Results of this testing showed that a continuous 
strong free cash flow is delivered under these scenarios.
We focus on keeping our cost of supplies low to help maintain the 
resilience of our portfolio. In 2018, our total unit production costs 
were US$5.1/boe (US$5.2/boe in 2017).Technology is also a key enabler to maintain and grow a resilient 
portfolio. We have refreshed our technology strategy to ensure 
we continue to focus on conventional oil and gas technologies, 
whilst adding two new priorities: carbon management and the 
development of new energy sources. 
Refer to the Innovation and technology pages 40–41 for 
more information on these priorities.
Advocating for a competitive, lower carbon 
economy
Our CEO has publicly advocated for a global carbon price as 
the best way to drive the transition to a lower carbon world. 
In the absence of an appropriate carbon price, we risk a 
perverse outcome where the lowest cost of reliable supply into 
the market remains the greatest emitter of carbon, offsetting 
the benefits offered by renewables and low-carbon emitters.
We continue to promote this position and our broader support 
for a competitive, lower carbon economy in our engagements 
with relevant stakeholders. This also extends to participation 
in global events including the UN climate change conference, 
COP24, held in Poland in December 2018. 
Climate change publication
In 2018, we developed a climate change publication, which 
aligns with our Climate Change Policy and climate change 
strategy. The document explains our energy future in a 
lower carbon world and how we deliver sustainable value by 
focusing on three themes: creating value, protecting value and 
contributing to the solution.
Refer to our website for the climate change document and 
more information. 
Reduce our net emissions intensity
Support policies that deliver lowest cost 
carbon abatement
Supply affordable and clean energy
OUR CONTRIBUTION
Withstand extreme  
environmental conditions
Test our existing portfolio
Maintain competitive cost of supply
PROTECT VALUE
Use our rigorous  
investment framework
Innovate to create opportunities
Create new markets
CREATE VALUEWE DELIVER SUSTAINABLE VALUE
OUR FUTURE OUR APPROACH
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our environment  27At Woodside, managing our environment is a key priority and we recognise that strong environmental 
performance underpins our success and continued growth.
Our approach
Our environmental management process ensures we understand 
the potential risks and impacts of our activities and implement 
appropriate mitigation strategies to minimise our environmental 
footprint. Robust impact assessment and risk-management 
underpinned by credible science, strong partnerships and 
transparency are the key elements to Woodside’s approach no 
matter where we are or what the regulatory regime may require.
Many of our activities in Western Australia are located next to 
unique environments. We collaborate with some of the world’s 
leading scientific research organisations to understand how 
these environments function. These partnerships and credible 
science outcomes enable us to conduct our activities responsibly 
and verify our environmental performance. The knowledge 
generated through our partnerships is shared with government, 
industry and the broader community in many formats including 
scientific publications and educational outreach programs.
Our environmental partnerships
Our partnerships with leading scientific organisations including 
WAM and AIMS provide a long-term knowledge base that 
underpins our environmental understanding and informs our 
approvals and impact assessments.We work alongside biodiversity experts from WAM, and other 
leading global science organisations, to discover, identify and 
describe animal and plant species collected from Western 
Australia’s north-west marine region. These findings form 
part of the Woodside Collection, one of the world’s largest 
regional oceanic marine collections. The collection hosts over 
55,000 specimens representing over 8,500 species of which 
700 are new to science. This collection will be showcased in 
the Woodside Learning Gallery Down Under, which will open 
in the new Perth WAM in 2020.
The research published as a result of these long-term 
partnerships will help guide us as well as policy makers, natural 
resource managers and the public towards ensuring a more 
sustainable future for our oceans and communities.
Waste management
We strive to find ways to reduce waste and improve resource 
efficiency, from design through to operating practices.
We set minimum performance requirements for the handling, 
storage and transport of waste and seek innovative solutions 
to reduce, reuse and recycle. 2018 HIGHLIGHTS
 +Recognised 25 years of environmental collaboration with 
the Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS) and  
20 years with the Western Australian Museum (WAM)
 +Obtained primary environmental approval for the  
Senegal development
 +Hosted four environmental capacity-building workshops 
in Myanmar
2019 PRIORITIES
 +Progress primary environmental approvals for Burrup 
Hub projects
 +Implement a biodiversity management plan for SenegalENVIRONMENT
18
STATE AND  
NATIONAL AWARDS280+
SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS10
HIGHER DEGREES AND 
POST-DOCTORATES150 +
EDUCATIONAL OUTCOMESENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIP OUTCOMES
OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR PEOPLE
28  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018CASE STUDY
A collaborative solution for mercury
Mercury is a naturally occurring element that is widespread in 
the environment. Almost all hydrocarbon reservoirs contain 
mercury. While mercury levels in hydrocarbons can vary 
greatly, even low levels of mercury need to be removed to 
avoid damage to gas processing facilities and to comply with 
environmental regulations. Mercury is removed from gas by 
passing it through a catalyst. Until recently, we disposed our 
mercury catalyst waste at a facility in Switzerland.
In 2015, we commenced collaboration with Contract 
Resources to develop a local mercury treatment facility. 
Woodside provided the foundation funding to underwrite 
the investment. The collaboration resulted in the construction 
of a A$25 million mercury recovery facility in Karratha, which 
opened in mid-2018. The world-class plant is the largest 
hazardous waste recycling and processing facility in the 
southern hemisphere, capable of treating all of Australia’s 
mercury-contaminated waste. 
The world-class waste treatment facility provides secure 
storage, processing and purification of mercury waste from 
the liquefaction process at our facilities.
The construction of the mercury recovery facility in Karratha 
aligns with Australia’s obligations under the Basel Convention 
to reduce the movements of hazardous waste between 
countries. It also reduces the likelihood of personal exposure 
through accident or mishap, eliminates long-term storage at 
the source and provides employment in the Pilbara.
 Our CFO, Sherry Duhe, at the opening of Contract Resources’ mercury waste treatment facility
OUR FUTURE OUR APPROACH
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our environment  29MAJOR INCIDENT 
RESPONSE
The ability to respond in the event of a major incident is a key focus of Woodside.
Our approach
By carefully planning, reviewing and testing our major 
incident response capabilities, we ensure we meet our 
obligations to our stakeholders and, in particular, the 
communities where we are active.
Our global crisis and emergency management framework is based 
on international best-practice standards and uses an all-hazards 
approach of ‘prevent, prepare, respond and recover’ (PPRR).2018 HIGHLIGHTS
 +Successful major (operational) oil spill exercise spanning 
multiple locations and involving key stakeholders
 +Developed technology-based capability to support 
emergency response and improve H&S for responders
 +Deployed a standardised, fit-for-purpose incident 
management system
2019 PRIORITIES
 +Maintain high levels of preparedness and response capability
 +Collaborate with our industry partners on the Burrup to 
streamline emergency responseCASE STUDY
Radar boosts safety
Woodside has committed to a joint industry initiative 
to install high-frequency radar on the North West 
Cape near Exmouth, Western Australia. This initiative 
will facilitate more accurate measurement of the 
direction of both waves and surface currents in the 
area, improving our oil-spill trajectory modelling and 
drift modelling in the region. Making this data publicly 
available will provide improvements in safety across 
the North West Cape, including supporting search and 
rescue operations.401
EMERGENCY 
RESPONSE 
DRILLS23
EMERGENCY 
MANAGEMENT 
EXERCISES4
CRISIS 
MANAGEMENT 
EXERCISESDuring 2018 Woodside has tested and confirmed its 
incident response capability by conducting:
A crisis exercise underway at Woodside’s new Perth headquarters.
OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR PEOPLE
30  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018OUR APPROACH
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
STAKEHOLDER HOW WE LISTEN WHAT MATTERS WHAT WE DO
CUSTOMERS  +Regular engagements to 
manage commercial and 
operational aspects of liquids 
delivery and annual plan for 
LNG delivery
 +In-country representatives
 +Proactive engagement to 
understand short- and long-
term needs +Product quality
 +Product cost
 +Reliable, safe delivery +Reciprocal staff 
exchanges to promote 
understanding of 
respective businesses
 +Site visits to build 
mutual understanding
JOINT VENTURE 
PARTICIPANTS +Regular meetings with 
joint venture boards and 
committees
 +Assurance programs
 +Regular operations 
overviews
 +Participation in business 
reviews and audits +Reliability and safety of supply, 
product quality, cost and delivery
 +Health and safety
 +Climate change and greenhouse gas 
emissions
 +Environmental impacts
 +Governance and transparency
 +Local content +Regular site visits
 +Regular collaborative 
participation in 
government meetings 
and industry events
INVESTORS 
AND FINANCE 
PROVIDERS +Investor briefings
 +Full-year and half-year 
results briefings
 +Regular meetings with 
financiers, institutional 
shareholders and investor 
representatives
 +Annual General Meeting +Superior shareholder returns
 +Management of financial and non-
financial risks
 +High-quality corporate governance 
 +Climate change risk management
 +Social and cultural impacts on 
communities
 +Human rights
 +Reserves replacement +Australian 
Securities Exchange 
announcements
 +Environmental, social 
and governance 
briefings with 
Australian institutional 
investors
LOCAL AND 
INDIGENOUS 
COMMUNITIES +Regular community 
consultation and 
engagement
 +Community offices
 +Community grievance 
mechanism
 +Regular social impact 
assessments (SIA) and 
management planning that 
involves community input +Social and cultural impacts on 
communities
 +Local employment opportunities
 +Cultural heritage management
 +Local contracting opportunities
 +Economic benefits
 +Support to local businesses +Global Indigenous 
Peoples engagement 
strategy
 +Community events 
and programs
 +Community liaison 
groups and networks
 +Local jobs portalWoodside applies a consistent approach to stakeholder engagement to understand and manage our 
impacts, protect our reputation, maintain our social licence to operate and to support the social and 
economic prosperity of the communities where we are active. 
Our external stakeholder engagement procedure outlines our 
commitment to transparent communications and feedback 
with our stakeholder groups. 
The table below outlines how we engage with our eight 
stakeholder groups, their key interests and our responses to these.As part of compiling this report, we consulted representatives 
from each stakeholder group and identified topics of material 
concern as outlined on page 8.
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT
32  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018STAKEHOLDER HOW WE LISTEN WHAT MATTERS WHAT WE DO
LOCAL, STATE 
AND NATIONAL  
GOVERNMENTS +Ongoing liaison with regulators, 
government agencies and 
a broad range of political 
stakeholders +Responsible oil and gas 
resource development
 +Environmental, cultural 
heritage, social and fiscal 
performance 
 +Local employment 
opportunities
 +Regulatory compliance
 +Fraud, anti-bribery and 
corruption
 +Transparency +Direct submissions to state and 
national governments
 +Contribute to domestic 
and international industry 
and business association 
submissions
SUPPLIERS AND 
CONTRACTORS +Regular reciprocal supplier 
performance reviews
 +Embedded supplier relationship 
management with our Tier 1 
suppliers
 +Supplier feedback survey +Health and safety
 +Social and cultural 
impacts on communities
 +Supply opportunities
 +Growth readiness
 +Disruptive technology +Collaborative, outcome-
focused drive for delivery  
of tangible local content and 
Indigenous engagement 
outcomes
 +Continuous anti-bribery and 
corruption monitoring
 +Collaborate to deliver tangible 
safety improvements
NON-
GOVERNMENT 
ORGANISATIONS +Input into social and 
environmental impact 
assessments
 +Regular participation in industry 
forums and associations
 +Regular participation in the 
Voluntary Principles on Security 
and Human Rights events +Environmental impacts
 +Climate change
 +Social and cultural 
impacts on communities
 +Cultural heritage impacts 
 +Fraud, anti-bribery and 
corruption
 +Transparency
 +Human rights +Participate in the Extractive 
Industries Transparency 
Initiative
 +Engagement on growth 
projects
EMPLOYEES +Regular performance reviews 
and personal development 
plans for all employees
 +Actively involve employees 
in our internal inclusion and 
diversity-focused community 
groups
 +Woodside Week in-house 
conference held to promote 
collaboration and innovation +Values-led organisational 
culture 
 +Health and safety
 +Career development 
opportunities
 +Inclusion and diversity
 +Major incident prevention 
and response
 +Climate change
 +Environmental impacts +Our Compass values
 +Ongoing communication and 
programs for employee safety, 
health and wellbeing
 +Annual staff briefing with the 
CEO and senior executives
 +Annual Woodside Awards, 
recognising outstanding 
employee achievement and 
contribution
 +Annual event to recognise  
20+ years of service
OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our approach  33Woodside has a zero-tolerance approach to fraud, bribery and corruption.FRAUD , ANTI-BRIBERY 
AND CORRUPTIONMATERIAL TOPIC
2018 HIGHLIGHTS
 +No violations of anti-bribery and corruption laws were 
detected within or in connection with Woodside
 +Conducted eight anti-bribery and corruption audits
 +100% of our people completed anti-bribery and 
corruption training as part of the Code of Conduct
 +54% of our people completed advanced anti-bribery and 
corruption training for higher-risk roles
 +Conducted anti-bribery and corruption workshops with 
joint venture participants in higher-risk locations
OPPORTUNITIES RISKS
 +Maintain our position as a 
partner of choice +Contracting and 
procurement fraud
 +Continue to enhance 
internal controls and risk 
management +Bribing of government 
officials and/or private 
individuals
 +Influence business partners 
to meet industry standards +Theft of confidential 
information
OUR  
ACTIVITIESPREVENTION
RESPONSEDETECTION
Annual Code 
of Conduct and 
anti-bribery and 
corruption training
Third-party 
engagements 
subject to risk-
proportionate 
due-diligenceZero-tolerance 
approach
Twice-yearly Board 
reporting
Investigations of 
alleged breaches 
of the Code of 
ConductFraud, anti-bribery 
and corruption 
risk assessments 
refreshed at least 
twice a year
Analytics conducted 
on procurement and 
finance dataOur approach 
Bribery and corruption undermine fair competition, erode 
public trust in governments and businesses and disadvantage 
economies. Bribery and corruption divert funds into the hands 
of criminals and dishonest officials.
Our standard contracting terms and conditions comply with 
Australian and international anti-bribery and corruption laws 
and address specific obligations in relation to our policies. 
When entering non-operated joint venture agreements, Woodside 
expects compliance with anti-bribery and corruption obligations 
by the operator and other participants in the joint venture and 
requires such obligations within agreements.
Woodside reviewed its anti-bribery and corruption processes in 
2018 and made the following improvements: 
 +Cross-functional coordination on data analytics for the 
detection of potential fraud and other misconduct through 
working groups
 +Updated our due-diligence processes to test and strengthen 
existing controls for teams undertaking activities attracting a 
higher level of fraud risks.
Woodside also conducted eight anti-bribery and corruption 
compliance audits on contractors and joint venture participants 
resulting in recommended improvements to staff training,  
due-diligence and our policy. 
Managing the risk
We assess fraud and corruption risk across all our activities 
and locations using criteria including country of operation, 
activities undertaken and the level and nature of engagement 
with government. During the year, a number of actions were 
implemented under stand-alone risk assessments for our 
Senegal and Myanmar assets, including training, localised 
controls over finance and the engagement of contractors. 
We delivered an updated e-learning corruption training to 
2,092 managers and personnel, representing 54% of the 
company. Senior management and all personnel in international 
locations were required to complete the training. In addition, 
personnel travelling to high-risk locations received face-to-face 
briefings on bribery and corruption risks. 
Our fraud and corruption global risk is reviewed at least 
twice yearly. 
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT
34  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018SUPPLY CHAIN  
AND LOCAL CONTENT
To support Woodside’s growth strategy, we continue to foster sustainable supply chains, delivering value 
while enhancing positive outcomes for stakeholders and the communities where we are active.
1. Figure is converted from US dollars as of 31 December 2018.By positively influencing the health, safety, environmental 
and social performance of our suppliers, we can improve 
compliance, reduce risk and enhance positive outcomes for our 
host communities. 
A total of A$5.01 billion was spent across 2,476 suppliers in 2018, 
with the majority of spend being with Australian-based suppliers. 
We have processes in place to maintain the quality of our 
supply chain and identify and manage risks using appropriate 
controls and performance measures. We undertook a number 
of continuous improvement initiatives to better support 
our base business and growth strategy. These included the 
introduction of automated reporting to improve visibility of 
spend against contracts and augment contract management 
and fraud analytics. 
We also introduced training to enhance the commercial 
acumen and contract management skills for company 
representatives, achieving a 99% completion rate. A pilot 
training module for administration assistants was also 
developed to increase purchase requisition compliance with 
face-to-face training delivered across all operating facilities. 
To better understand and manage modern slavery risks in 
our supply chain, we implemented the supply chain human 
rights framework.
Refer to Human rights on page 24 for more information.
During the year, we achieved the following positive outcomes 
against our Elevate RAP procurement commitments: 
 +147 active purchasing relationships with Indigenous businesses
 +27% increase in Indigenous employment with our contractors.2019 PRIORITIES
 +Work with project contractors to establish local and 
Indigenous opportunities in the growth phase that will 
continue into the production phase 
 +Develop a revised digital structure to increase efficiency in 
contracting processes2018 HIGHLIGHTS
 +Achieved significant increases in the number of new 
Indigenous engagements with 75 new commercial 
contracts awarded – resulting in a 74% increase in spend
 +Implemented the supply-chain human rights framework 
 +Increased the use of data analytics and system 
automation to reduce financial, bribery and corruption, 
and modern slavery risks
 +Delivered targeted training for company representatives, 
management and administration personnel
GLOBAL SPEND BY COUNTRY
Graphic not to scaleGreat Britain 2 %
Myanmar 1 %
Singapore 5 %
Australia 84 %Liberia 2 %
OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our approach  35Complying with laws, regulations and stakeholder expectations in relation to financial payments is vital to 
maintaining Woodside’s licence to operate, and is required for all of our business activities.
Our approach to tax  
Woodside recognises the importance of stability, sustainability 
and competitiveness in tax and fiscal regimes to underpin 
investment decisions and enable project development. 
Our tax governance framework and Board-approved Tax 
Policy is clear – we will comply with all tax laws and regulations 
applicable to our business. 
We believe in paying taxes according to where value is created 
and do not support the use of artificial arrangements. Woodside 
is committed to maintaining open and constructive relationships 
with our tax administrators.
We voluntarily operate under an Annual Compliance Arrangement 
(ACA) with the Australian Taxation Office (ATO), which provides 
a framework for real-time disclosure and interaction on tax 
matters. The ACA is only available to taxpayers that have a trusting 
relationship with the ATO, are willingly transparent, have a good 
compliance history and a robust tax governance framework. 
We recognise the interests of our stakeholders in transparency 
and commend tax transparency initiatives that increase public 
confidence in the contributions and compliance of corporate 
taxpayers. In Australia, we voluntarily participate in the 
Board of Taxation’s Tax Transparency Code, addressing the 
recommended disclosures in two parts: Part A in our Annual 
Report and Part B in this report. 
Refer to the Tax Transparency section of our website for more 
information on our approach and government submissions 
and reports.Our tax contribution 
Woodside acknowledges paying the taxes due under law is one of 
the ways we support our social licence to operate.
More than 95% of the taxes we have paid are Australian taxes, 
as this is where the majority of our income is earned and our 
operating assets are located.
Hydrocarbon production in Australia is subject to a complex 
mix of taxes including corporate income tax, petroleum 
resource rent tax (PRRT) and federal royalties and excise. 
The amount of taxes we pay is affected by a number of 
factors, including production and commodity prices impacting 
revenues, and the amount of capital and operating expenditure.
In 2018, Woodside paid A$894 million in tax and royalties to the 
federal and state governments of Australia and A$4.9 billion 
over the past five years.
Australian Tax Contribution 2018 (A$m) 2017 (A$m)
Income Tax 555 537
PRRT (3) (8)
Federal royalties 217 153
Federal excise 62 59
Payroll tax 58 53
Fringe benefits tax 5 3
Total 894 797
Our effective income tax rate in respect of both our global and 
Australian operations is near to the Australian corporate tax rate 
of 30% as outlined in our Annual Report 2018.
Refer to the Tax Transparency section of our website for more 
information on our contribution.TRANSPARENCY
95 %
OF OUR TAXES PAID 
IN AUSTRALIAWE REMAIN A SIGNIFICANT AUSTRALIAN 
TAXPAYER WITH MORE THAN 
A$894IN 2018, WE PAID
MILLION IN TAXES 
AND ROYALTIES IN 
AUSTRALIA
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT
36  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018International related-party dealings 
Woodside has an expanding global portfolio, with business 
operations in various places around the world. We apply 
arm’s-length principles to our international related-party 
dealings (IRPDs), the total value of which is not significant when 
compared to revenue from production activities. 
The majority of our IRPDs are support services provided from 
Australia, where the majority of our staff and our corporate 
headquarters are located.
Services are also provided from Woodside’s office in Singapore, 
which enables participation in LNG trading markets and sourcing 
of new buyers for our uncommitted Australian LNG cargoes. The 
profits from these cargoes are subject to tax in Australia. 
Other support functions, including representative offices and 
group services, are located across the globe in proximity to 
important assets and markets.
Refer to Annual Report 2018 for a full list of Woodside’s 
Group of Companies, their country of incorporation and our 
ownership interest.
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global 
standard to promote the open and accountable management 
of extractive resources. Woodside joined the EITI in 2005 and 
became an EITI Supporting Company in 2008. Woodside is 
committed to reporting our petroleum tax and fee payments in 
respect of operations in implementing countries where we have 
an interest. Political donations and forum memberships  
Woodside regularly engages with governments of countries 
where we are active to exchange information and views essential 
to mutually informed decision-making.
In 2018, Woodside renewed its membership to the Federal 
Liberal Party Australian Business Network and the Australian 
Labor Party Federal Business Forum, with Board approval. 
These represent the two major political party business forums 
in Australia.
Woodside’s political contributions for the financial year 2017/18, 
as published by the Australian Electoral Commission, totalled 
A$237,300. This comprised A$110,000 each for membership 
of Liberal and Labor business associations and A$17,300 for 
participation in other state and federal political conferences 
and events. 
Woodside does not donate to campaign funds for any political 
party, politician or candidate for public office in any country. 
Industry association memberships
Woodside is a member of a variety of industry associations 
through which we advocate for sound decision-making on a 
range of topics important to our company and our stakeholders.
While Woodside’s views do not always align with these 
associations, they facilitate important collaboration and 
information-sharing opportunities for our industry and the 
wider business community. 
Refer to our website for more information on memberships.
Australian industry associations and memberships International industry associations and memberships
OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our approach  37Woodside must operate an effective management framework to maintain our licence to operate, comply 
with regulatory requirements and meet the expectations of joint venture participants and stakeholders. 
Our approach 
The rights and interests held by Woodside and its stakeholders 
are secured through the laws of the countries where we work. 
We respect our stakeholders’ rights and interests, and protect our 
own rights and interests, by complying with the law. 
In undertaking our global business activities, we comply 
with a broad range of regulatory obligations both in 
Australia and internationally.
We maintain oversight of regulatory compliance across all 
parts of our business to ensure: 
 +Regulatory obligations are identified, understood and 
assessed for applicability in the specific circumstances
 +Responsibilities to comply with regulatory obligations have 
been identified and clearly communicated
 +Woodside personnel have the knowledge and capability to 
effectively meet regulatory obligations
 +Regulatory obligations are being met and reported against
 +Where regulatory obligations are not met, or not likely to be 
met, corrective actions are being taken.
Our management system sets global minimum expectations for 
the way we work, supported by more detailed internal processes 
and controls designed to achieve our business objectives while 
managing risk and meeting our regulatory obligations. 
In 2019, we will implement improvements in assessing the 
effectiveness of our management system. This is important for 
compliance with objectives-based regulatory regimes, which 
set high-level requirements that must be achieved, but do not 
prescribe how those requirements must be met. 
Our 2018 performance 
There were no violations of anti-competitive practice laws 
detected within or in connection with Woodside. 
No significant monetary or non-monetary sanctions or fines 
were received.
Three regulatory infringement notices were received in relation 
to our activities.
We met 2,069 regulatory compliance deadlines across 51 facilities/
projects and 66 corporate entities in 19 countries. 
REGULATORY 
COMPLIANCE
2019 PRIORITIES
 +Support timely regulatory approvals for our growth 
projects
 +Leverage our management system to increase internal 
visibility of our compliance performance2018 HIGHLIGHTS
 +No violations of anti-competitive practice laws
 +No significant fines or sanctions received
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT
38  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018OUR FUTUREOur innovation and technology work streams and partnerships improve our business, as well as help solve 
large and complex challenges in our industry. As part of our work, we invest in knowledge, passion and 
capability across science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) disciplines.
Our approach
At Woodside, we start with the opportunity or problem. 
Then, we think big, prototype small and scale fast. 
We invest in technology to reduce costs for our existing 
operations, to enable future developments, and to extend 
sources of revenue. The application of technology in our 
business also enables our people to work more efficiently and 
assists in reducing their exposure to health and safety hazards. 
We have updated our technology strategy to increase the 
priority of carbon management and the development of 
new energy markets and sources. We continue to focus 
on conventional oil and gas technologies and data-driven 
breakthroughs. Our strategy ensures we apply innovation and 
technology to support growth. 
Collaborative partnerships are an essential part of our 
approach. Ideas and solutions go further when we encourage 
innovative thinking from our own people, combined with fresh 
perspectives from outside our industry. 
Supporting our near-term growth
Woodside has long been a leader in applying oil and gas 
technologies. Supported by our capabilities in data science, 
analytics and machine learning, we continue to search for 
breakthroughs that will deliver value. 
We began an Australian-first application of Humidur anti-
corrosion paint to oil and gas infrastructure. Long-lasting 
Humidur requires only one coat, with minimal surface preparation 
– delivering substantial time and cost savings. We also delivered 
a 1.5% improvement in energy efficiency across Trains 1–2 at KGP 
by optimising the composition of mixed refrigerants to match the 
varying ambient temperature rather than the long-term average. 
Our in-house sensor team successfully trialled a visual digital 
inspection at one of our assets, which showed feasibility at 
scale. Digital inspections would reduce the safety risk exposure 
of our people on site, and enable them to focus on other value-
adding activities. 
The robotics team continued exchanging people and 
knowledge through our collaborative partnership with NASA, 
and conducted proof of concept trials at KGP and Pluto LNG 
onshore gas plants. In October, we carried out an Australian-
first robotics trial on an offshore platform, at the North Rankin 
Complex. This is an early step towards proving our extended 
capabilities in remote operations.We worked with ABB Australia Pty Ltd to install a 1 MWh 
powerstore battery on the Goodwyn A (GWA) platform, with 
commissioning due to start in 2019. 
This world-first application of microgrid technology on an 
offshore platform is expected to reduce GWA’s use of fuel gas 
by more than 2,000 tonnes per year, delivering an estimated 
5% improvement in energy efficiency, and a 10,000 tonne 
annual reduction in CO₂e emissions.
New opportunities and horizons
We are supporting the transition to lower carbon energy in a way 
that adds value for our shareholders across our growth horizons. 
As part of our work developing and promoting new markets for 
LNG fuels, we are targeting start-up of a truck-loading facility 
at our Pluto LNG plant in early 2019. This facility will supply 
trucked LNG to help displace diesel in fuel-intensive mining 
operations in the remote Pilbara region. We also continue to 
work with our partners on the Green Corridor initiative between 
the Pilbara and North Asia, which aims to increase the use of 
LNG as a marine fuel on this significant export route. 
In addition to our ongoing work to reduce CO₂ emissions 
from current activities, we are taking a proactive approach to 
manage future emissions.
In late 2018, we established a dedicated, multidisciplinary team 
to build a portfolio of CO₂ offset mechanisms considering 
reduction, sequestration and other uses of carbon. We also 
progressed plans to integrate industrial-scale solar power 
generation with gas-fired generation and battery storage 
for our future Burrup Hub LNG operations. Reducing fuel 
gas consumption on the Burrup Peninsula will increase the 
amount of gas available for LNG production, yielding both 
environmental and commercial benefits.
In the longer term, we are exploring opportunities to 
commercially produce and export hydrogen.INNOVATION  
AND TECHNOLOGY
OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR PEOPLE
40  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018CASE STUDY
Using FutureLab to think big, prototype small, and 
scale fast
The Woodside FutureLab connects Woodside with 
universities, research institutions, start-ups, individual 
entrepreneurs and adjacent leading industries. 
In March 2018, we ran a FutureLab Grand Challenge on 
ways to rapidly weld large-diameter pipelines, which would 
directly support Woodside’s Burrup Hub growth plans. 
Currently, installation costs make up the majority of pipeline 
expenditure. We see potential to reduce installation time 
and per-kilometre costs significantly, through applying 
technologies from fields like autonomous systems and 
next-generation welding.
The Grand Challenge was launched at The Welding Institute 
in Cambridge, England. Fifty technical experts from around 
the world, representing every part of the pipeline value 
chain, worked on the problem of how to weld 42” pipe 
reliably, in a single pass, within a two-minute cycle. 
Following the Grand Challenge, we are now working 
collaboratively with participants on further testing of 
electron beam welding, where a beam of electrons moving 
at high speed is applied to two materials to be joined.
Our work on pipeline welding will be further enhanced by 
another FutureLab initiative - the Centre for Long Subsea 
Tiebacks. We launched the Centre in partnership with 
the University of Western Australia and Chevron, to drive 
research into new subsea engineering technologies for 
offshore oil and gas production. 
Cybersecurity
Our developments in hardware have been complemented by 
progress in cognitive computing work, as well as our ongoing 
focus on managing cybersecurity risks through control 
frameworks and system improvements. Our in-house cognitive 
assistant, Willow, works across systems to surface information in 
response to queries, increasing efficiency and keeping our people 
connected to more than 60 years’ knowledge and experience. Supporting innovation and STEM in the 
community
During 2018, we invested more than A$3 million in research 
partnerships with universities, recognition for scientists and 
innovators, and in STEM facilities and outreach programs aimed 
at young people and families.
Our award-winning STEM in Schools Program, delivered together 
with Earth Sciences Western Australia, reached a significant 
milestone during the year with more than 10,000 students 
engaged since the program began.
Our Chief Technology Officer, Shaun Gregory, at the opening of the Centre for 
Long Subsea Tiebacks.
OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Our future  41FUTURE ENERGY MIX
The global energy mix has never been static. Today, change is being hastened by a push for more 
sustainable and lower carbon sources of energy. As global energy demand continues to grow, 
governments, communities, companies and individuals are seeking ways to supply energy to a growing 
population, more efficiently, and with a lower carbon footprint.
The number of people with access to electricity is increasing 
rapidly. To meet demand, the IEA New Policy Scenario (NPS) 
requires the world to generate 57% more electricity by 2040. 
In its 2018 World Energy Outlook, the IEA identifies several 
long-term trends important to the continued electrification of 
energy supply: 
 +Electricity and economic prosperity  
Access to electricity in developing countries helps open 
paths to economic prosperity and wellbeing. 
 +Electricity capacity vs energy security  
Power systems need adequate capacity to meet demand,  
but also sufficient flexibility to cope with the intermittency  
of renewables to ensure security of supply. 
 +Electrification and the environment  
Efforts to electrify can conflict with environmental goals. 
Significant effort will be required to reduce the carbon 
footprint of the power sector, improve energy efficiency 
and encourage the uptake of lower carbon technologies 
across all sectors. Natural gas in the mix 
Under the IEA NPS, natural gas is the fastest growing fossil 
fuel and is ideal to partner with renewables to decarbonise the 
global energy system. The IEA NPS indicates that from 2017 to 
2040 total gas demand will increase by 43%. 
Gas demand growth in developing nations across Asia–Pacific 
and Africa is projected to outstrip all other regions, largely a 
result of China’s “blue-sky” initiative. Markets in the developed 
nations of North America and Europe will still make up more 
than 30% of gas demand in 2040 under the NPS. 
In power generation, the IEA NPS projects demand growth of 
31% by 2040. Gas in transport nearly triples to 2040 due to the 
introduction of compressed natural gas/LNG-fuelled vehicles 
and LNG-powered ships to meet International Maritime 
Organisation regulations resulting in the reduction of harmful 
emissions associated with the use of diesel and high-sulfur 
marine oil. 
In the end-use sectors of industry and buildings, the IEA NPS 
projects an increase in gas consumption of 65% and 26% 
respectively to 2040. Key drivers of growth in the industrial sector 
include the chemical industry’s use of gas to produce heat and 
steam and as a feedstock to produce fertilisers and methanol.
Refer to the Annual Report 2018 for more information on the 
dynamics of the LNG market.
Primary energy demand by fuel (Mtoe) Total primary energy demand (Mtoe)
20,000 10,000 0IEA SDS 20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
02040 2030 2017IEA NPS
IEA SDS
IEA NPS
Gas Oil Coal
Bioenergy Other renewables Nuclear HydroIEA NPS IEA SDS
IEA = International Energy Agency NPS = New Policies Scenario SDS = Sustainable Development Scenario2017 2030 2040
Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 2018
OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR PEOPLE
42  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 43
Notes and definitions
Glossary
Units
A$ Australian dollars
bn billion
boe barrel of oil equivalent
CO₂e carbon dioxide equivalent
kt kilotonne
t tonne
tCO₂e tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
US$ US dollarsHealth and safety
Frequency rates Frequency rates are calculated per million hours worked.
Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) The number of recordable injuries (fatalities + lost work day cases + restricted workday cases + medical treatment 
cases + permanent partial disability) per 1,000,000 hours worked.
Lost time injury (LTI) An LTI is an incident that results in a fatality, disability or time lost from work. The number of LTIs is the sum of 
these incidents.
Incident Is one, or more, of the following: an unplanned release of energy that actually resulted in injury, occupational illness, 
environmental harm or damage to assets, a near miss, damage or potential damage to company reputation, breach of 
regulatory compliance and/or legislation, security breach.
Loss of Primary Containment 
(LoPC)An unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from primary containment, including non-toxic and 
non-flammable materials (e.g. steam, hot condensate, nitrogen, compressed CO₂ or compressed air).
Process safety event (PSE) 
(Tier 1 and Tier 2)An unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment (LoPC) of any material including non-toxic and non-
flammable materials from a process, or an undesired event or condition. Process safety events are classified as  
Tier 1 – LoPC of greatest consequence or Tier 2 – LoPC of lesser consequence. As defined by American Petroleum 
Institute (API) recommended practice 754.
People
Total employees Total number of employees including permanent, fixed term and part-time. Does not include secondees or contractors.
Contractors Non-Woodside employees, working within Woodside to support specific activities.
Total turnover Permanent and fixed-term employees who left Woodside voluntarily or involuntarily.
Voluntary turnover Permanent and fixed-term employees who left Woodside voluntarily for reasons not initiated by the company.
Social investment Social investment data has been verified by the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) methodology. The LBG verified data 
includes donations, community investment and commercial initiatives. For more information visit lbg-australia.com.
Terms
AIMS Australian Institute of Marine Science
ASX Australian Securities Exchange
ATO Australian Taxation Office
Board Woodside’s governing body – the Board of Directors
CEO Chief Executive Officer
Code Woodside’s Code of Conduct
EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative 
ESIA Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
FlaringThe controlled burning of gas found in oil and gas 
reservoirs
GEM Gender Equality Matters
Greenhouse gasesGases that trap heat in the atmosphere, including carbon 
dioxide, hydrofluorocarbons, methane, nitrous oxides, 
ozone, perfluorocarbons, vapour and water
GRIThe Global Reporting Initiative is a network-based 
organisation that promotes sustainability reporting 
worldwide. The GRI reporting framework sets out 
principles and indicators that organisations can use to 
measure and report their economic, environmental and 
social performance.
HAZOP Hazard and operability study
HSE Health, safety and environment
IPIECAInternational Petroleum Industry Environmental 
Conservation Association. The global oil and gas industry 
association for environmental and social issues.
KLE Karratha Life Extension
LBG London Benchmarking Group
LNG Liquefied natural gasLOPA Layers of protection analysis
LTIF Lost time injury frequency
NWS North West Shelf
PRRT Petroleum Resource Rent Tax
PSE Process safety event
RAP Reconciliation Action Plan
Renewable energy Any form of energy from biological, geophysical or solar 
sources that replenishes itself by natural processes at a 
rate that is equal to or greater than its rate of use
SDG Sustainable Development Goals
STEM Science technology engineering and mathematics
Sustainability Achieving a decent standard of living for everyone today 
without compromising the needs of future generations. 
(United Nations, 2013) 
TCFD Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
TRIR Total recordable injury rate
Upstream Industry term for operations relating to exploring for, 
developing and producing as well as marketing crude 
oil and natural gas. This includes transporting crude 
oil, natural gas and petroleum products by pipeline or 
marine vessel.
VPSHR Voluntary principles on security and human rights
WAM Western Australian Museum 
WMSWoodside Management System. This is the company’s 
structured governance framework.
WRC Woodside Reconciliation Community
44  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018Sustainable Development Report 2018
Head Office: 
Woodside Petroleum Ltd 
Mia Yellagonga 
11 Mount Street 
Perth WA 6000
Postal address: 
GPO Box D188 
Perth WA 6840  
Australia
T: +61 8 9348 4000 
F: +61 8 9214 2777 
E: companyinfo@woodside.com.au
Woodside Petroleum Ltd 
ABN 55 004 898 962
woodside.com.au
