SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT
REPORTAcknowledging Country
Woodside recognises Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
peoples as Australia’s first peoples. We acknowledge the 
unique connection that Indigenous people have to land,  
waters and the environment. We extend this recognition  
and respect to Indigenous peoples and communities  
around the world.
On the cover
The cover features a coastal landscape of the Burrup 
Peninsula in Western Australia (WA), traditionally known  
as Murujuga.
About this report
This report provides an overview of Woodside’s 
sustainability approach and performance for the 12-month 
reporting period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021. 
This report was approved by Woodside’s Board of Directors. 
Woodside recognises that Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) performance is integral to our success.  
The Sustainability Committee of the Woodside Board 
endorsed the ESG topics included within this report as those 
that are most relevant to our business activities at this point 
in time. The topics were identified after considering our 
global presence and feedback from stakeholders.
Scope
Woodside Petroleum Ltd (ABN 55 004 898 962) is the 
ultimate holding company of the Woodside group of 
companies. In this report, unless otherwise stated, references 
to ‘Woodside’, the ‘Group’, the ‘company’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ 
refer to Woodside Petroleum Ltd and its controlled entities,  
as a whole. 
The text does not distinguish between the activities of the 
ultimate holding company and those of its controlled entities. This information in this report covers all sites and production 
facilities wholly owned and operated by Woodside, and/or 
operated by Woodside in a joint venture, with the exception 
of environmental performance data, which is also reported 
on an equity basis that includes our non-operated assets.
Health and safety, and people performance data is reported 
on a total operated basis. Health and safety data includes 
international exploration activity. Social contributions are 
Woodside equity only. Climate-related data should be read  
in conjunction with the Climate Report 2021.
In August 2021 Woodside and BHP announced their intention 
to merge BHP’s oil and gas business with Woodside.  
The merger is targeted to be completed in early June 2022,  
and is therefore outside the reporting period for this 
Sustainable Development Report.
Disclaimer
Forward-looking statements 
This report contains forward-looking statements, including 
statements of current intention, statements of opinion and 
expectations regarding Woodside’s present and future 
operations, possible future events and future financial 
prospects. Such statements are not statements of fact and 
may be affected by a variety of known and unknown risks, 
variables and changes in underlying assumptions or strategy 
that could cause Woodside’s actual results or performance to 
differ materially from the results or performance expressed 
or implied by such statements. There can be no certainty of 
outcome in relation to the matters to which the statements 
relate, and the outcomes are not all within the control of 
Woodside. Further information on some important factors 
that could cause actual results or performance to differ 
materially from those projected in such statements is 
contained in the Annual Report 2021. 
 
Woodside employees at Mia Yellagonga.
ii Sustainable Development Report 2021Woodside makes no representation, assurance or guarantee 
as to the accuracy or likelihood of fulfilment of any forward-
looking statement or any outcomes expressed or implied 
in any forward-looking statement. The forward-looking 
statements in this report reflect expectations held at the 
date of this report. Except as required by applicable law 
or the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) Listing Rules, 
Woodside disclaims any obligation or undertaking to publicly 
update any forward-looking statements, or discussion 
of future financial prospects, whether as a result of new 
information or of future events.
Emissions data
All greenhouse gas emissions data in this report are 
estimates, due to the inherent uncertainty and limitations 
in measuring or quantifying greenhouse gas emissions, 
including those uncertainties set out in the GHD Assurance 
Statement. Woodside “greenhouse gas” or “emissions” 
information reported are Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions, 
Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions and Scope 3 greenhouse 
gas emissions. NOTE: Data in the Environment table on page 
36-37 has been prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards core option and with 
reference to the IPIECA API and IOGP (2020) Sustainability 
Reporting Guidance for the oil and gas industry. The climate-
related data table that appears in the Climate Report 2021 
includes some consistent data points and additional data 
points structured to align with the TCFD recommendations 
framework and with reference to relevant metrics from the 
Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Oil and  
Gas Upstream Standard. 
Other important information 
This report also contains references to the proposed 
combination of Woodside and BHP Group Limited’s oil 
and gas business (Proposed Transaction). The Proposed 
Transaction remains subject to satisfaction of certain 
conditions precedent including shareholder and regulatory 
approvals. Completion is targeted in early June 2022, with 
an effective date of 1 July 2021. There is no certainty or 
assurance that the Proposed Transaction will complete on 
the intended schedule or at all. Information in this report 
regarding the Proposed Transaction must be read subject to  
that uncertainty. 
Annual Report 2021
Our Annual Report 2021 provides a summary of  
Woodside's operations, activities and financial position  
as at 31 December 2021.We are working with Green Reports™ on 
an initiative ensuring that communications 
minimise environmental impact and 
create a more sustainable future for  
the community.A summary of Woodside's climate change approach for the 
12-month period ended 31 December 2021 is included in our 
Climate Report 2021.
Climate Report 2021
This Climate Report 2021 summarises Woodside's climate-
related plans, activities, progress and climate-related data  
for the period 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021. 
Woodside will put its climate reporting to a non-binding, 
advisory vote of shareholders at its 2022 Annual General 
Meeting.
The report has been structured to align with the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
recommendations framework.
The Annual Report 2021, Sustainable Development Report 2021 
and Climate Report 2021 together provide a complementary 
review of Woodside’s business. 
Reporting frameworks
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards core option and with 
reference to the IPIECA, American Petroleum Institute (API) 
and International Association of Oil and Gas Producers 
(IOGP) (4th edition 2020) Sustainability Reporting Guidance 
for the oil and gas industry. IPIECA is the global oil and gas 
association dedicated to advancing environmental and social 
performance across the energy transition.
Refer to pages 102–107 for our GRI and IPIECA indices.  
External assurance
A copy of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu’s assurance statement 
is available on page 109. Deloitte has conducted limited 
assurance over selected information in this report and 
the associated data tables. Our selected greenhouse gas 
emissions data is assured by GHD and our social investment 
contribution is verified by Business for Societal Impact.
Report feedback
We welcome feedback on our report via  
companyinfo@woodside.com.au
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd iii 
Woodside employees at the 
Karratha Gas Plant (KGP).
Sustainable Development Report 2021
iv Overview 6
About Woodside 7
Focus areas 8
2021 summary 10
2021 ESG topics 10
2021 ESG ratings performance 11
Message from our Sustainability Committee Chair 12
Message from our Chief Executive Officer 14
Sustainability targets 16
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 17
Environment 23
Climate change resilience and transition 24
Environment and biodiversity 28
Decommissioning 38
Social 42
Social and cultural impacts on communities 43
People and culture 53
Supply chain and local content 65
Human rights 68
Governance 70
Health, safety and wellbeing 71
Corporate governance 80
Major incident preparedness 91
Appendices 96
Materiality 97
Our stakeholders 98
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index 102
IPIECA Sustainability Reporting Guidance (4th Edition, 2020) Index  105
2021 sustainability topic boundaries  108
External assurance statements 109
Definitions and glossary 119CONTENTS
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd vOVERVIEW
OVERVIEWABOUT WOODSIDE
We provide energy which Australia and the world needs to heat homes, keep lights 
on and enable industry. We have a reputation for safe and reliable operations.  
Our liquefied natural gas (LNG) in particular supports the decarbonisation goals of 
our customers, and we are progressing opportunities to commercialise new energy 
products and lower-carbon services as part of our broader product mix.
Our proven capabilities as a reliable, low-cost energy 
provider combined with a focus on technology to enable 
efficiency will drive our long-term success.
We have a portfolio of quality oil and gas assets and more 
than 30 years of operating experience. Through our North 
West Shelf and Pluto LNG projects we operated 5% of global 
LNG supply in 2021. Offshore Australia we operate two 
floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) facilities, 
the Okha FPSO and Ngujima-Yin FPSO. 
Our operations are focused on safety, reliability, efficiency 
and environmental performance. 
We also have a non-operated participating interest in the 
Wheatstone project, which started production in 2017. 
In November 2021, we reached agreement with BHP Group 
(BHP) for the merger of BHP's petroleum business with 
Woodside. The merger will deliver increased scale, diversity 
and resilience. Completion of the merger is targeted for early 
June 2022, following receipt of approvals.
The Scarborough and Pluto Train 2 projects have been 
approved, with first LNG cargo expected in 2026. 
In Senegal, the Sangomar Field Development Phase 1 
remains on track targeting first oil in 2023.
Our marketing, trading and shipping activities enable  
us to supply a growing base of customers primarily  
in the Asia-Pacific region. 
We are evolving our business to develop a low-cost,  
lower-carbon, profitable, resilient and diversified portfolio  
to help us thrive through the global energy transition.
Our climate strategy is to reduce our net equity Scope 1  
and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, while investing in the 
products and services that our customers need as they 
reduce their emissions.We have set targets to reduce our net equity Scope 1 and 
2 greenhouse gas emissions, including a 15% reduction by 
2025 and 30% by 2030, towards our aspiration to achieve 
net zero by 2050 or sooner.1 
Our hydrocarbon business is complemented by a growing 
portfolio of hydrogen, ammonia and solar opportunities in 
Australia and internationally.
Our new energy opportunities include the proposed 
hydrogen and ammonia projects H2Perth and H2TAS  
in Australia and the proposed hydrogen project H2OK  
in North America.
We take a disciplined and prudent approach to investment 
through our capital management framework, ensuring we 
manage financial risks and maintain a resilient financial 
position. This allows us to optimise the value delivered from 
our portfolio of opportunities.
Environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance  
is integral to our success. Our approach to sustainability  
is outlined in this report.
Enduring, meaningful relationships with communities 
are fundamental to our social performance. Woodside is 
committed to managing our activities in a sustainable way 
that is fundamental to the wellbeing of our workforce,  
our communities and our environment. 
We recognise that our success is driven by our people and 
our culture. We are committed to upholding our values of 
respect, ownership, sustainability, working together,  
integrity and courage, and we aim to attract, develop  
and retain a diverse, high performing workforce.
1 Target is for net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, relative to a starting base of the gross annual average equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions over 2016-2020 
and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in producing or sanctioned assets with an FID prior to 2021. Post-completion of the Woodside and BHP petroleum merger 
(which remains subject to conditions including regulatory approvals), the starting base will be adjusted for the then combined Woodside and BHP petroleum portfolio.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 7FOCUS AREAS
Refer to the Annual Report 2021 Asset Facts section on page 155 for full details of Woodside's global interests.
1 Denotes marketing office.
2 Denotes representative and liaison offices.
3 Woodside announced its decision to withdraw from its interests in Myanmar on 27 January 2022.Gas Producing assetsProduct type Phase
Gas or oil
New energies
Carbon origination projectsAppraisal and explorationOil DevelopmentsSingapore1Tokyo 2Beijing2
Seoul2
Timor-Leste/AustraliaSenegal
Myanmar3Canada
Houston
H2OK
Perth
H2PerthCarbon 
origination 
projectsHeliogen
H2TAS
Australia
8 Sustainable Development Report 2021LPG and domestic gas 3% 
Perth
Woodside  
headquartersKarratha
OnslowPluto LNG
WheatstoneNgujima-Yin FPSOOkha FPSO
Western  
Australia
Pluto
ScarboroughBrowse
WheatstoneNorth West
Shelf Project
North West
Shelf Project
H2PerthProduct share of 
2021 annual production
LNG 78%
Liquids  19%Carbon  
origination  
projects
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 92021 SUMMARY
NET EQUITY SCOPE 1 
AND 2 GREENHOUSE 
GAS EMISSIONS
10%
BELOW 2016-2020 
GROSS ANNUAL 
AVERAGE1
AUSTRALIAN TAX  
AND ROYALTIES 
CONTRIBUTION
A$658 
MILLIONAUSTRALIAN  
EFFECTIVE INCOME  
TAX RATE
30.6%TIER 1 OR TIER 2  
LOSS OF PRIMARY 
CONTAINMENT
0 
PROCESS SAFETY  
EVENTSTOTAL RECORDABLE 
INJURY RATE  
(TRIR)
1.74 
PER MILLION  
WORK HOURS2
MATERIAL TOPICS
 »Climate change resilience 
and transition 
(Environmental)
 »Health, safety and wellbeing 
(Governance)
 »Social and cultural impacts 
on communities 
(Social)2021 ESG TOPICS
SIGNIFICANT TOPICS
 »Corporate governance 
(Governance)
 »Environment and 
biodiversity 
(Environmental)
 »People and culture 
(Social) »Decommissioning 
(Environmental)
 »Human rights  
(Social)
 »Major incident preparedness  
(Governance)
 »Supply chain and local 
content  
(Social)IMPORTANT TOPICS1 Target is for net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, relative to a starting base of the gross annual average equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions over 2016-2020  
and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in producing or sanctioned assets with an FID prior to 2021. Post-completion of the Woodside and BHP petroleum merger 
(which remains subject to conditions including regulatory approvals), the starting base will be adjusted for the then combined Woodside and BHP petroleum portfolio.
2 Refer to page 73 for TRI and TRIR five year data graph. OUR TOTAL SOCIAL 
CONTRIBUTION 
GLOBALLY
A$20.3 
MILLION
10 Sustainable Development Report 2021
2021 ESG RATINGS PERFORMANCE
As of 2021, Woodside received an Morgan Stanley 
Capital International ESG Rating of AAA.AAA RATINGMORGAN STANLEY CAPITAL INTERNATIONAL
DISCLAIMER STATEMENT  
The use by Woodside Petroleum Ltd of any MSCI ESG research LLC or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names 
herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Woodside Petroleum Ltd by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of 
MSCI or its information providers, and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI.CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT
As of 13 November 2021, our company scored 75 out 
of 100 in the 2021 S&P Global Corporate Sustainability 
Assessment. Our company performed in the top 
quartile in the OGX Oil and Gas Upstream and 
Integrated Industry.
TOP QUARTILE
Sustainability Award
Bronze Class 2022  
SUSTAINALYTICS
In December 2021, Woodside Petroleum Ltd received 
an ESG Risk Rating of 26.7 and was assessed by 
Sustainalytics to be at medium risk of experiencing 
material financial impacts from ESG factors.
In 2021, Woodside was recognised by Sustainalytics  
as an ESG Industry Top Rated company.
TOP RATED
DISCLAIMER STATEMENT  
Copyright ©2021 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. This publication contains information developed by Sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). Such information and 
data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an 
endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose. Their use  
is subject to conditions available at https:/ /www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 11
The year also saw energy companies around the world 
coming under increased scrutiny to not only ensure the  
clear communication of their future strategy but also the role 
of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors within 
their business. As Chair of the Sustainability Committee of 
the Woodside Board, I am pleased to say that we recognise 
that ESG performance is integral to our ongoing success and 
the business continues to apply an ESG mindset to decision 
making at all levels. 
The Sustainability Committee endorsed the ESG topics 
included within this report as those that are most relevant  
to our business activities at this point in time, recognising 
our global presence. 
The content of this report provides a holistic description of 
our activities, reinforced by clear data and case studies to 
support the information provided. For our material topics, 
we have clearly identified achieved 2021 highlights, possible 
opportunities and risks for 2022, as well as the plans to 
address these items. 
Impressively, during a year of continued challenges,  
we achieved the majority of our sustainability targets.  
We successfully implemented a social performance 
framework in our operations while embedding active 
monitoring of indicators within our communities where we are active. However, it is disappointing that our 
total recordable injury rate increased in 2021 and we will 
work in a focused way in 2022 to deliver improvements.
We released our new stretch five-year Reconciliation Action 
Plan with Reconciliation Australia, focused on achieving 
positive outcomes for our Indigenous communities through 
consultation and engagement. 
We recorded zero Tier 1 or Tier 2 loss of primary containment 
process safety events with a continued commitment to 
protecting the health and safety of our workforce. We made 
good progress towards our 2025 target of 15% reduction in 
net equity emissions with a reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas emissions in 2021 by 10%.1 
We also made good progress in relation to our defined 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals strategy,  
with most deliverables set for 2021 being achieved, 
delivering meaningful outcomes for our people and the 
communities where we are active.
Our 2021 ESG ratings performance, as assessed by a range 
of independent international rating indices, were also highly 
positive in relation to our global industry peers and are 
indicative of our continued quality performance and level  
of disclosure relevant to our activities.
MESSAGE FROM  OUR SUSTAINABILITY  COMMITTEE CHAIR
In 2021, the ongoing global health crisis 
continued to present obstacles for the world,  
the energy industry and our people. Our business 
successfully adapted to changing demands and 
new ways of working, to not only allow for the 
continuation of reliable operations but also the 
pursuit of opportunities to commercialise new 
energy products and lower-carbon services.
1 Target is for net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, relative to a starting base of the gross annual average equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions over 2016-2020 
and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in producing or sanctioned assets with an FID prior to 2021. Post-completion of the Woodside and BHP petroleum merger 
(which remains subject to conditions including regulatory approvals), the starting base will be adjusted for the then combined Woodside and BHP petroleum portfolio. 
2 Investment target assumes completion of the proposed merger with BHP’s petroleum business. Individual investment decisions are subject to Woodside’s investment hurdles. Not guidance.
 
Ann Pickard.
12 Sustainable Development Report 2021In 2021, Woodside set a target to invest US$5 billion in  
new energy products and lower-carbon services by 2030.2  
This material investment in new energy will position 
Woodside well in the new energy market to be able to 
continue to support the decarbonisation goals of our 
customers. Our new energy opportunities announced in 
2021 include the proposed hydrogen and ammonia projects 
H2Perth and H2TAS in Australia and the proposed hydrogen 
project H2OK in North America.
Our culture is underpinned by our Compass Values and 
Code of Conduct that define the expected behaviours of 
everyone working at and with Woodside. Sexual harassment 
is a serious violation of these principles. Woodside has a 
long-standing commitment to building a work environment 
that is safe and free from all forms of discrimination and 
inappropriate behaviour including sexual harassment.  
Our culture is aligned to our values, with a key focus on 
respect, abiding by the law and looking out for each other.
In parallel with the release of this report, Woodside also 
released its first Climate Report, which outlines a plan to 
meet Woodside’s near- and medium-term targets to reduce 
our net equity Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions 
by 15% in 2025 and 30% in 2030, in support of our aspiration 
of net zero emissions by 2050 or sooner.1 This Climate Report 
will be put to a non-binding advisory vote of shareholders at 
Woodside’s 2022 Annual General Meeting. 
The progression of these announced targets and plans will 
be transformative for Woodside, and we recognise that it is 
through our people that we will succeed in this transition. 
We remain focused on furthering an inclusive culture with a 
values-based approach to ensure we maintain an engaged 
and enabled workforce. We are also cognisant of the power of 
inclusion and diversity in all levels of our business and value 
the varied perspectives and experiences of all our people. 
As we look further into 2022, the proposed merger with 
BHP’s petroleum business has the ability to elevate 
Woodside into a top ten independent energy company by 
production and the largest energy company on the ASX.2 
This is an exciting time for Woodside and as our business 
grows, we recognise that we will also need to continue to 
evolve our approach to sustainability and ESG and we  
remain ready for the next steps.
Ann Pickard
Chair of the Sustainability Committee 
17 February 2022BOARD SUSTAINABILITY  
COMMITTEE
Ann Pickard; Chair
Larry Archibald
Swee Chen Goh
Christopher Haynes, OBE
Ian Macfarlane
Sarah Ryan
Ben Wyatt
1 Target is for net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, relative to a starting base of the gross annual average equity 
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions over 2016-2020 and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in 
producing or sanctioned assets with an FID prior to 2021. Post-completion of the Woodside and BHP petroleum merger (which 
remains subject to conditions including regulatory approvals), the starting base will be adjusted for the then combined Woodside 
and BHP petroleum portfolio.
2 On a pro forma basis for the 12 months ended 30 June 2021.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 13
I am proud of the remarkable achievements 
summarised in the first Sustainable Development 
Report that I have overseen as Woodside CEO. 
In 2021 we have made some transformative 
decisions, setting us on a path to become a 
much larger company with competitive growth 
opportunities, and a more significant supplier  
of energy on the world stage.
We announced our proposed merger with BHP’s petroleum 
business in August, which once completed, would result in a 
top ten independent energy company by production and the 
largest energy company on the ASX with the scale, diversity 
and cash flow to thrive through the energy transition.1
In November, we took final investment decisions for our 
Scarborough and Pluto Train 2 growth projects, which 
will deliver additional LNG into Asia and support its 
decarbonisation.
As a supplier of energy worldwide, we have achieved 
these impressive outcomes, while being aware of our role 
in broader society, applying an ESG mindset to guide 
responsible decision making at all levels of the business.
Like the rest of the world, we continued to grapple with  
the impacts of COVID-19 on our business and our people.  
Our number one priority throughout the pandemic has 
remained the health and safety of our people and the 
communities where we are active.
This focus enabled us to continue to supply reliable energy 
to the world, while delivering our largest ever planned 
maintenance campaign.
I am disappointed that our total recordable injury rate 
increased in 2021. The safety of our workforce is our top 
priority, and we are working with our employees and 
contractors to deliver improvements by addressing key 
contributing factors, including COVID-19 impacts. We continue to work closely with external stakeholders and 
collaborate with industry peers to learn from each other.
We proactively participated in the Western Australian 
Government’s Parliamentary inquiry into sexual harassment 
in the fly-in fly-out mining industry. Providing both a 
physically and psychologically safe working environment 
is a priority for Woodside and we recognise the important 
focus being brought to this issue. Within Woodside, our 
mental health and wellbeing framework is focused on 
creating healthy workplaces by protecting and supporting 
our people through challenges.
We launched a new Working Respectfully Policy, building 
on Woodside’s existing strong standards regarding ethical 
and values-driven behaviour, and further demonstrating the 
importance we place on maintaining a safe and respectful 
workplace for all.
We participated actively in discussions at COP-26 in 
Glasgow, the annual global climate change conference,  
and our climate strategy has been reinforced by its 
outcomes. Our strategy has two simple elements –  
we are reducing our net equity emissions and investing  
in the products and services that the world needs  
as it decarbonises.MESSAGE FROM  OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
1 On a pro forma basis for the 12 months ended 30 June 2021.
 
Meg O'Neill.
14 Sustainable Development Report 2021We reduced net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions by 10% in 2021.1 This represents good progress 
towards our net equity emissions reduction targets are to 
achieve a 15% reduction by 2025 and a 30% reduction by 
2030, with a net zero aspiration by 2050.1
In 2021, we set ourselves a target to invest US$5 billion in 
new energy products and lower-carbon services by 2030.2 
These products include hydrogen and ammonia, which 
produce lower greenhouse gas emissions at the point of use 
and will help our customers decarbonise, and lower-carbon 
services such as carbon capture utilisation and storage 
(CCUS), which Woodside could offer as a service to third 
parties to sequester their emissions for a fee.
We are already securing land in attractive areas, preferably 
close to available renewables or close to markets, for 
development opportunities which leverage our existing 
capabilities. Recently announced hydrogen and ammonia 
opportunities include H2Perth, near the Kwinana industrial 
hub south of Perth, H2TAS, located in the Bell Bay area of 
northern Tasmania and H2OK in Oklahoma.
This significant investment in new energy will position 
Woodside as an early mover in the new energy market 
and support the decarbonisation goals of our customers. 
It forms part of our newly announced approach to Scope 3 
greenhouse gas emissions, which include the emissions that 
arise when customers use the energy we supply.
In 2021, we announced we are assessing an opportunity 
to develop a large-scale, multi-user carbon capture and 
storage (CCS) project near Karratha, Western Australia.  
We will continue to scale up our carbon offset projects 
to ensure we deliver on our emissions reduction targets. 
In 2021, we purchased an additional two properties in 
the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia, with planting 
targeted for 2022 as part of the Woodside Native 
Reforestation Project.We have released our first ever Climate Report, which 
articulates how our business will thrive in the energy 
transition. The report will be put to a non-binding advisory 
vote at our 2022 Annual General Meeting.
In 2021, we progressed decommissioning scopes across 
our Australian assets, including for the Echo Yodel field 
west of Dampier in Western Australia, with the plugging 
and abandoning of the Yodel Wells. We undertake 
comprehensive assessments to inform our planning 
and decision-making process and we continue to work 
with governments, regulators and industry peers as the 
decommissioning landscape continues to evolve.
Woodside’s strategy has evolved in these pivotal times, 
but as always, we remain focused on contributing to the 
wellbeing and sustainability of communities.
To this end, we have embedded a social performance 
framework in our operations with active monitoring in place 
for key community indicators and launched a new five-year 
social investment strategy. We have continued working to 
build long-lasting relationships with Indigenous communities, 
implementing a new five-year Reconciliation Action Plan with 
endorsement from Reconciliation Australia, outlining how we 
are creating positive economic and cultural outcomes. 
I am proud of the way Woodside and its people have 
responded to another dynamic and challenging year, 
demonstrating resilience and ingenuity, to help secure  
a more sustainable future. 
Meg O'Neill
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director 
17 February 2022
1 Target is for net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, relative to a starting base of the gross annual average equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions over 2016-2020 
and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in producing or sanctioned assets with an FID prior to 2021. Post-completion of the Woodside and BHP petroleum merger 
(which remains subject to conditions including regulatory approvals), the starting base will be adjusted for the then combined Woodside and BHP petroleum portfolio.
2 Investment target assumes completion of the proposed merger with BHP’s petroleum business. Individual investment decisions are subject to Woodside’s investment hurdles. Not guidance.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 15SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS
The sustainability targets are set each year and 
approved by our Executive Committee and the Board 
Sustainability Committee to track our performance. 
Material topic 2021 target 2021 performance 2022 target
Climate change 
resilience and 
transitionCommence delivery of 
new 2025 and 2030 
emissions reduction 
targets.1 Reduced net equity 
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions by 10%  
in 2021.1  Progress towards 2025 
target of 15% reduction  
in net emissions.
Health 
and safety 
performanceTotal recordable injury 
rate (TRIR) at or below 1, 
which is below our three-
year rolling average.1.74 TRIR is below 1.0. 
One or fewer Tier 1 or 
Tier 2 loss of primary 
containment process 
safety events.0
 One or fewer Tier 1 or 
Tier 2 loss of primary 
containment process 
safety events.
Social and 
cultural 
impacts on 
communitiesEmbed social 
performance framework 
across the business 
– communities 
assessments completed 
and social performance 
plans in place for our 
operations and projects.Social performance 
framework implemented 
and communities 
assessments completed, 
with social performance 
plans in place for 
operations and projects.Implement social 
performance plans for 
communities where we 
are active including a fit 
for purpose approach for 
new business activities.
Implement the new  
2021–2025 Reconciliation 
Action Plan.2021–2025 Reconciliation 
Action Plan in place.Deliver 2022 
commitments as set out 
within the 2021–2025 
Reconciliation Action Plan.
1 Target is for net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, relative to a starting base of the gross annual average equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions over 
2016-2020 and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in producing or sanctioned assets with an FID prior to 2021. Post-completion of the Woodside and BHP 
petroleum merger (which remains subject to conditions including regulatory approvals), the starting base will be adjusted for the then combined Woodside and BHP petroleum 
portfolio.
16 
Sustainable Development Report 2021UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) intend to address the 
world’s most pressing economic, social and environmental issues. The SDGs require 
businesses, government, and society to contribute to relevant target deliverables.
Our SDG strategy reflects our efforts to support the global 
sustainability agenda throughout our operations, supply 
chain, infrastructure, and employment opportunities. 
We categorise our SDGs into tiers, including primary goals, 
secondary goals and our underpinning goal. With primary 
and secondary goals are where we make the most significant 
contribution. Progress against the deliverables in our 
Sustainable Development Report 2020 is outlined below.
PRIMARY GOALS
Our aspiration
Continue to provide LNG as a cleaner source of fuel for global markets 
and pursue the development of lower-carbon energy sources.Related targets
7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.a
Our deliverables Our progress
Continue to provide cost-competitive LNG through 
our existing facilities and growth projects.Achieved final investment decisions for Scarborough 
and Pluto Train 2 projects. 
Develop new markets for LNG as a lower-emissions 
fuel in trucking and shipping.Sales and purchase agreements were signed to 
sell trucked LNG for customers to use for power 
generation.
Diversify our business into supplying new energy 
products and lower-carbon services, particularly 
proposed hydrogen projects.1Secured land for H2Perth, a world scale hydrogen  
and ammonia production facility, and secured land  
in Tasmania for the H2TAS development.
Secured a lease and option to purchase 94 acres  
(38 hectares) of vacant land in Ardmore, Oklahoma, 
to underpin future development of the proposed  
H2OK project.
Develop a business to originate and acquire quality 
carbon offsets.Continue to grow our Carbon business with an aim 
to develop a diversified domestic and international 
carbon offsets portfolio.
1 This wording has been updated to reflect the content of the Woodside Climate Strategy included within the Climate Report 2021.Key:
 Completed
 On track
 Off track/partially complete
 Not achieved
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 17PRIMARY GOALS
Our aspiration
Continue to support economic growth as a supportive  
and responsible employer.Related targets
8.5, 8.6, 8.7
Our deliverables Our progress
Continue to provide and support apprenticeships, 
traineeships and Indigenous participation in 
education pathway programs.Launched the Woodside scholarship program,  
with 20 inaugural recipients and we continue to 
support 54 Indigenous apprentices and traineeships 
in Karratha and Perth.
Conduct human rights due diligence activities, 
including country risk assessments and human  
rights assessments.Undertook a salient human rights impact assessment 
across our business and a Myanmar human rights  
risk assessment. Completed annual refresher training 
of the Code of Conduct for all employees and 
contractors with system access, which is a mandatory 
requirement.1 
Develop local capabilities, support training initiatives 
and offer employment opportunities with a focus on 
oil and gas disciplines in Senegal.Trained government agencies to aid in environmental 
monitoring and regulation, and provided financial 
support to the National Oil and Gas Institute to build 
capability in Senegal’s oil and gas industry.
Continue to ensure controls and monitoring are in 
place to achieve equitable pay for all employees.Undertook our annual remuneration review to monitor 
and assess equitable pay for all employees, in addition 
to adjusting our external recruiting practices to 
address any potential bias in remuneration on hire.
Provide business capacity and capability 
development opportunities for local and Indigenous 
businesses in communities neighbouring our 
Australian operations.Through the Karratha and Districts Chamber of 
Commerce and Industry, we continued to support  
the Pilbara Indigenous Business Network and Grow 
Local programs.
Collaborate with Yangon Technological University 
in Myanmar to build in-country capacity and 
knowledge.Ceased activities with the Yangon Technological 
University.1 
1 Subsequent to the period, on 27 January 2022, Woodside decided to withdraw from its interest in Myanmar. continued
18 
Sustainable Development Report 2021continued PRIMARY GOALS
Our aspiration
Set short- and medium-term climate change targets, underpinned by 
action to minimise climate change and its impacts.Related targets
13.1, 13.3
Our deliverables Our progress
Reduce net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions to 15% below gross annual average  
by 2025.¹In 2021, Woodside’s net equity Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas emissions totalled 3,235 kt CO₂-e,  
10% below the 2016–2020 gross annual average  
and on course to achieve Woodside’s 2025 target  
of a 15% reduction.1, 2
Achieved efficiencies in the design and operation of 
our assets, please see pages 24-27 of this report and 
the Climate Report 2021 for more information.Reduce net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions to 30% below gross annual average  
by 2030.¹
Support international efforts including the World 
Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative,  
the Methane Guiding Principles and the International 
Energy Trading Association’s Markets for Natural 
Climate Solutions initiative.Reported initiatives taken to address methane 
emissions to the methane guiding principles 
organisation. See Climate Report 2021 for more 
information.
Woodside was a founding member of the 
International Emissions Trading Association (IETA)
Markets for Natural Climate Solutions Initiative.  
In 2021 IETA and Carbon Market Institute (CMI) 
established an Australian group focused on expanding 
the role of private sector engagement in the 
expansion of natural climate solutions in Australia  
and the region.
1  Target is for net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, relative to a starting base of the gross annual average equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions over 
2016-2020 and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in producing or sanctioned assets with an FID prior to 2021. Post-completion of the Woodside and 
BHP petroleum merger (which remains subject to conditions including regulatory approvals), the starting base will be adjusted for the then combined Woodside and BHP 
petroleum portfolio.
2 See glossary for definition of equity and net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions. 
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 19
SECONDARY GOALS continued
Our aspiration
Support quality education and lifelong learning opportunities.Related targets
4.2, 4.4, 4.5
Our deliverables Our progress
Work collaboratively through the Woodside 
Development Fund to reduce developmental 
vulnerability and improve early childhood outcomes 
in communities where we are active.The Woodside Development Fund portfolio of 
partnerships continued to deliver the core investment 
themes of community-led collaboration, capacity 
and capability build and advocacy through programs 
delivered in Australia, Myanmar and Senegal.1 
Engagement that commenced with the Roebourne 
community and local 6718 Yandi for Change initiative 
helped to mature a new partnership opportunity  
that we believe meets the needs and aspirations  
of the community.
Support the Karratha and Roebourne Education 
Initiatives through the North West Shelf (NWS) 
Project Joint Venture (JV) to provide high-quality 
educational opportunities for students and 
professional development opportunities for their 
teachers.More than 1,600 Karratha students participated 
in programs supported by the NWS Project’s 
Karratha Education Initiative. Programs included 
digital technologies, exam revision seminars, career 
counselling, employment pathway and leadership 
development programs. The NWS Project also 
continued to support the Roebourne Education 
Initiative for students at Roebourne District High School.
Continue to partner with Earth Science Western 
Australia to deliver the STEM (Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Maths) in Schools program  
to primary and high school students in  
Western Australia.Established in 2016, the employee-led STEM in Schools 
Program has reached over 10,000 students in Perth 
and Karratha. A review of the program sought to shift 
the future strategic focus due to the plethora of STEM 
initiatives now available in schools. Delivery of the 
program wound down in Perth in 2H 2021 yet continued 
in Karratha. New collaborative partnerships were 
identified where employees can volunteer their technical 
expertise to advance STEM outcomes from 2022.
Support science, technology, engineering and  
maths initiatives through partnerships with Scitech,  
Monash University and the University of Western 
Australia (UWA).The Woodside Building for Technology and Design 
officially opened at Monash University to support  
new solutions in sustainable energy technology.  
A partnership with Scitech was renewed for the STEM 
After Schools Program and co-investment was made 
into the implementation of the Digital Technologies 
Curriculum Initiative facilitated by the Western 
Australia (WA) Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
1 Subsequent to the period, on 27 January 2022, Woodside decided to withdraw from its interest in Myanmar. 
20 
Sustainable Development Report 2021Our aspiration
We will support social outcomes through protection,  
recognition and respect for Indigenous culture and heritage.Related targets
11.4
Our deliverables Our progress
Support cultural heritage management initiatives 
proposed by Traditional Owners and Custodians 
through engagement and consultation, including 
programs to facilitate the transfer of cultural 
knowledge and values.Committed to an ethnobotanical survey of Indigenous 
plant use within the perimeter of the Karratha Gas 
Plant, in addition to supporting the World Heritage 
listing of the Murujuga Cultural Landscape.
Fund Indigenous ranger programs that protect 
cultural and natural heritage and regenerate Country.Multi-year sponsorship agreement with the Murujuga 
Rangers and funding support for the publication of a 
book of traditional knowledge about native plants  
on Murujuga.
Support credible and robust scientific research to 
further understand our potential environmental 
impacts on Indigenous cultural heritage.Provided funding to the Burrup Air Monitoring 
Program in support of the WA Government's 
Murujuga Rock Art strategy.SECONDARY GOALS
Our aspiration
Continue to improve productivity and energy efficiency by embracing 
technology and innovation.Related targets
9.4, 9.5
Our deliverables Our progress
Leverage Woodside’s FutureLab program hubs at 
Australian universities to work with researchers, 
entrepreneurs, subject-matter experts and parallel 
leading industries to solve industry challenges and 
create shared opportunities.Through the innovations at the University of Western 
Australia’s TechWorks, we have begun 3D printing 
replacement parts for our offshore operations and 
delivered them on demand. With the Top Code 
program, we are engaging data scientists to augment 
the company’s digital capabilities.
Invest A$40 million in facilities and research to 
progress Australia’s transition to a lower-carbon 
economy through the Woodside Monash Energy 
Partnership.Research underway includes acetic acid production 
by CO₂ conversion, liquid hydrogen storage, and gas 
phase CO₂ conversion.
Improve our operations and processes through 
adoption of more efficient technologies in industrial 
processes to meet our energy efficiency target and 
reduce emissions.Please refer to the Climate Report 2021 for details  
of 2021 abatement activities.continued
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 21
Our aspiration
Uphold robust environmental management and process safety 
practices to minimise our impact on marine environments and partner 
with research institutions to contribute to knowledge of these areas.Related targets
14.1, 14.2
Our deliverables Our progress
Maintain high levels of oil spill preparedness  
and response capability through our testing  
and simulation program.All employees who have a role in the Corporate 
Incident Command Centre undertake specific 
hydrocarbon spill awareness training. Twenty 
hydrocarbon spill exercises and 16 hydrocarbon spill 
drills completed in 2021 testing oil spill arrangements 
across all Woodside Australian assets, as outlined in 
our five-year rolling schedule.
Develop our in-country hydrocarbon spill response 
capability in Senegal including planning, ensuring the 
supply of essential equipment and providing training 
to local responders.Established a comprehensive spill mitigation 
equipment stockpile in Senegal and completed spill 
response training with contractors and relevant  
in-country government agencies.
Continue to collect and share scientific information 
on coastal and offshore biodiversity with key 
research organisations to support effective marine 
planning and management.Funded research into marine mammals and turtles, 
with nine studies published in international  
peer-reviewed science journals.
Our aspiration
Improve air quality and degraded habitats through restoration and 
sustainable use of land.Related targets
15.3
Our deliverables Our progress
Undertake quality carbon offset projects that 
deliver co-benefits including land restoration and 
biodiversity outcomes.Woodside in partnership with Greening Australia 
planted trees on 3,000 hectares during 2020 and 
2021 on three Woodside properties in Western 
Australia: Cowcher, Sukey Hill and Manalling Springs. SECONDARY GOALS
Our aspiration
 This goal underpins our SDG strategy and informs our approach to our primary and secondary 
goals. Our strategy is supported by working with our key stakeholder groups to enhance our 
contribution across our primary and secondary SDGs.UNDERPINNING GOALcontinued
22 
Sustainable Development Report 2021ENVIRONMENTCLIMATE CHANGE  RESILIENCE AND TRANSITION
Woodside today is an oil and gas company. We expect these products to remain 
important to the world’s energy system for decades to come as the energy 
transition progresses. We are developing new energy products and lower-carbon 
services in our portfolio. 
 »Woodside's net equity 
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions totalled  
3,235 kt C02-e1
 »This is 10% below the 
2016–2020 gross annual 
average on course to 
achieve Woodside's 2025 
target of a 15% reduction2 
 »Published our approach 
to address Scope 3 
greenhouse gas emissions 
including a US$5 billion 
investment target by 2030 
for new energy products 
and lower-carbon services3 
 »Announced New Energy and 
lower-carbon opportunities 
including H2Perth, H2OK, 
H2TAS, Heliogen, Woodside 
Solar Project, and possible 
multi-user Carbon Capture 
and Storage (CCS) project 2021 HIGHLIGHTS
 »Investing in a diversified 
portfolio of products and 
services
 »Continue to identify and 
pursue efficiencies in the 
design and operation 
of our facilities, such as 
introducing renewable 
electricity to our facilities 
 »Continue to grow a carbon 
offset business 
 »Take steps towards the 
development of one of 
Australia's first multi-user 
CCS projectsOPPORTUNITIES
 »Unexpected rate of change 
in demand for hydrocarbon 
and new energy products
 »Increased pricing or other 
regulatory control of 
emissions
 »Increased severity of 
extreme weather events 
impacting operationsRISKSMATERIAL TOPIC
1 See glossary for definition of equity and net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions. 
2 Target is for net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, relative to a starting base of the gross annual average equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions over 2016-2020 
and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in producing or sanctioned assets with an FID prior to 2021. Post-completion of the Woodside and BHP petroleum merger 
(which remains subject to conditions including regulatory approvals), the starting base will be adjusted for the then combined Woodside and BHP petroleum portfolio.
3 Investment target assumes completion of the proposed merger with BHP’s petroleum business. Individual investment decisions are subject to Woodside’s investment hurdles. Not guidance.
24 Sustainable Development Report 2021Our approach
Woodside aims to thrive through the energy transition by 
building a low-cost, lower-carbon, profitable, resilient and 
diversified portfolio. Our climate strategy is an integral part 
of our company strategy. It has two key elements: reducing 
our net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions,  
and investing in the products and services that our 
customers need as they reduce their emissions.
This includes new energy products and services, as well  
as further investment in our oil and gas business.  
The International Energy Agency estimates that some 
US$365 billion needs to be invested in upstream oil and gas 
supply every year to 2030, even in its Net Zero Scenario 
which is the most ambitious of its suite of scenarios.1  
Other scenarios include higher estimates. 
Woodside’s climate strategy is overseen by our Senior 
Vice President Climate, who is a member of the Executive 
Committee and a direct report to the CEO.
Our climate reporting has been structured to align with the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
recommendation framework. These disclosures are primarily 
included in the Climate Report 2021, the information included 
here should be read in conjunction with this report.
Our performance
In 2021, Woodside’s net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions totalled 3,235 kt CO₂-e, 10% below the 2016–2020 
gross annual average and on course to achieve Woodside's 
2025 target of a 15% reduction. Reductions were from 
operational improvements and the surrender of offsets.2, 3 
Examples of energy efficiency initiatives are given in 
the Climate Report 2021 and include installation of high 
efficiency filters on gas turbines at the Karratha Gas Plant, 
prioritising the use our more efficient turbines, and installing 
piping and new controls to allow safe compressor sealing 
while enabling routing of the seal vent methane stream  
to flare at Pluto LNG. 
In 2021, our total operated Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions were 8.9 million tonnes, a decrease from 9.2 million 
tonnes in 2020.4Sources of emissions 
In 2021, 68% of Woodside’s equity Scope 1 greenhouse gas 
emissions were from fuel combustion to power our assets, 
19% came from venting of which the majority is associated 
with removal of reservoir CO2 as part of the LNG process and 
13% from flaring. Woodside aims to minimise the impact of 
flaring by pursuing high plant reliability and improving flare 
combustion efficiency to reduce methane slip. 
A total of 85% of greenhouse gas emissions arise at assets 
that are operated by Woodside, and the remainder from 
assets in which Woodside has ownership but not direct  
operational control.
I9%
VentingI3%
Flare
68%
Fuel 
combustionSCOPE 1 EQUITY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  
BY SOURCE (%)
1 IEA World Energy Outlook 2021 and IEA Net Zero by 2050: a roadmap for the global energy sector. All rights reserved.
2 See glossary for definition of equity and net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions. 
3 Target is for net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, relative to a starting base of the gross annual average equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions over 2016-2020 
and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in producing or sanctioned assets with an FID prior to 2021. Post-completion of the Woodside and BHP petroleum merger 
(which remains subject to conditions including regulatory approvals), the starting base will be adjusted for the then combined Woodside and BHP petroleum portfolio.
4 See glossary for definition of operated and non-operated. 
5 The equity portion of greenhouse gas emissions, flare, fuel and production values include data from non-operated ventures where Woodside owns an equity portion, where data has been 
made available. 
6 Equity emissions from non-hydrocarbon producing subsidiary companies e.g. shipping companies are excluded. 
7 This graph utilises Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions data, excluding inerts for 2017-2020. In addition please note, a similar graph is used in the Climate Report 2021 which includes inerts 
from 2016-2021.SCOPE 1 EQUITY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS5,6,7
05001000150020002500300035004000
Operated Non-operatedkt CO2-e
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 25Our targets and plan
Woodside targets net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions reductions of 15% by 2025, and 30% by 2030,  
below the 2016–2020 gross annual average level, with 
an aspiration of net zero by 2050 or sooner.1 Our plan to 
achieve this is to avoid emissions in the way we design our 
assets, reduce emissions in the way we operate our assets, 
and originating and acquiring offsets for the remainder. 
Woodside established a carbon business in 2018 to develop 
a sustainable offset portfolio in support of our base business 
and new energy projects. We acquire offsets on carbon 
markets and also originate our own, managing them on 
a portfolio basis to optimise the cost of meeting both 
regulatory and corporate targets. 
Recognising the importance of methane as a greenhouse 
gas, methane emissions are included in our net equity  
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets 
and are reported separately for clarity. Woodside is signatory 
to the Methane Guiding Principles. 
Woodside has also published its approach to Scope 3 
greenhouse gas emissions including a new investment target 
of US$5 billion by 2030 in new energy products and  
lower-carbon services.3 
Climate advocacy
Woodside regularly engages with governments of countries 
where we are active in support of our business strategy to 
exchange information and to inform policy development 
and decision making. This engagement is undertaken both 
directly with governments and by working with industry 
associations. During 2021, Woodside also engaged with a 
range of State and Commonwealth Members of Parliament  
to understand their interests and to communicate 
information about our activities.
When these engagements are on climate-related topics, 
we are committed to ensuring our own advocacy, and the 
advocacy of our industry associations is aligned with the 
principles of Woodside's Climate Policy. 
Woodside also engages with various climate-related 
associations including the Australian Energy Transition 
Initiative which researches the pathways to net zero for 
Australia's ‘hard to abate’ industrial sectors. New energy products and lower-carbon 
services 
As part of Woodside’s decarbonisation efforts, we are 
progressing options for producing lower-carbon, new energy 
products, like hydrogen and ammonia.
Since 2018, Woodside has been making investments along 
the full new energy value chain, from collaborative research 
projects to customer collaboration and investment in 
downstream market development initiatives. Our production 
opportunity portfolio includes hydrogen made from natural 
gas with process emissions abated, and hydrogen produced 
using electrolysis. 
In 2021, we made significant progress on three proposed 
production projects: 
• We secured land for H2Perth, a proposed world-scale 
liquid hydrogen and ammonia production facility to 
be located on 130 hectares of prime industrial land in 
southern metropolitan Perth 
• We secured land for H2TAS, to deliver a proposed 
100% renewable ammonia product for export as well 
as renewable hydrogen for domestic use, located in 
Tasmania’s Bell Bay region, allowing us to expand our 
previous concept.
• We secured land and commenced front end engineering  
and design for H2OK, a 290 megawatt (MW) liquid 
hydrogen project in the Westport Industrial Park, 
Ardmore, Oklahoma. 
Customer collaboration highlights announced in 2021 include: 
• A new export customer consortium with Japanese 
companies IHI Corporation and Marubeni Corporation  
in connection with H2TAS
• A joint feasibility study to establish a clean fuel ammonia 
supply chain from Australia to Japan with Japan Oil, Gas 
and Metals National Corporation, Marubeni Corporation, 
Hokuriku Electric Power Company and The Kansai Electric 
Power Co., Inc 
• Formation of the HyStation company alongside five other 
parties in September 2021 to promote hydrogen bus 
adoption in South Korea 
• A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Hyzon 
Motor Company to explore collaboration opportunities  
in the US and Australia 
• A MOU with Keppel Data Centres, City Energy, Osaka Gas 
Singapore and City-OG Gas Energy Services to study the 
feasibility of liquid hydrogen supply to Singapore from 
H2Perth.
1 Target is for net equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, relative to a starting base of the gross annual average equity Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions over 2016-2020 
and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in producing or sanctioned assets with an FID prior to 2021. Post-completion of the Woodside and BHP petroleum merger 
(which remains subject to conditions including regulatory approvals), the starting base will be adjusted for the then combined Woodside and BHP petroleum portfolio.
2 Investment target assumes completion of the proposed merger with BHP’s petroleum business. Individual investment decisions are subject to Woodside’s investment hurdles. Not guidance.
26 Sustainable Development Report 2021In October 2021, we announced a collaboration with Heliogen 
Inc, a leading provider of Artificial Intelligence-enabled 
concentrated solar technology, including a proposed 
commercial-scale pilot facility in California. 
Woodside is evaluating a solar photovoltaic (PV) power 
facility, approximately 15 km south-west of Karratha in 
Western Australia. This will generate electricity from a large-
scale solar PV farm, complemented by a battery energy 
storage system and other associated infrastructure. Initially, 
the proposed facility could supply 100 MW of solar energy  
to Pluto LNG and other customers located near Karratha, 
with potential expansion to a maximum capacity of 500 MW.
In 2021, Woodside continued to assess carbon abatement 
opportunities including carbon capture and storage (CCS) 
and carbon offsets. In September, we entered an agreement 
with the Northern Territory (NT) Government, CSIRO and 
industry to develop a business case assessing the viability  
of a large-scale Low Emission Carbon Capture Utilisation  
and Storage Hub based in the NT. The aim of the hub will be 
to significantly reduce existing emissions, acting as a catalyst 
to new net zero industries that can continue throughout the 
energy transition. In November, Woodside, bp and Japan Australia LNG (MIMI) 
Pty Ltd, agreed to form a consortium to progress feasibility 
studies for a large-scale, multi-user CCS project near 
Karratha in Western Australia. 
The consortium aims to assess the technical, regulatory 
and commercial feasibility of capturing carbon emitted by 
multiple industries located near Karratha on the Burrup 
Peninsula and storing it in offshore reservoirs in the Northern 
Carnarvon Basin.
For more information please refer to pages 28-37 
in the Environment and biodiversity section and 
performance data tables of this report.
 
Illustration of H2Perth.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 27
ENVIRONMENT AND BIODIVERSITY
We recognise that strong environmental performance is essential to our success 
and continued growth. 
 »Maintained strong environmental performance 
with no significant environmental incidents1 
 »Secured primary environmental approval of the 
Scarborough Project – Nearshore Component
 »Successful delivery of the Burrup Air Monitoring 
Program
 »Approval of the updated Pluto LNG Facility 
Greenhouse Gas Abatement Program with 
progressive targets to net zero emissions by 2050
 »Completion of capacity building workshops 
with members of Senegal’s National Technical 
Committee to improve understanding of risk 
management in the oil and gas industry2021 HIGHLIGHTS
 »In consultation with key stakeholders progress 
secondary environmental approvals for the 
Scarborough and Pluto Train 2 projects in 
Western Australia
 »Progress primary environmental approval  
of the Browse Development
 »Continue to support the Murujuga Rock Art 
Strategy
 »Continue to support biodiversity knowledge 
and capacity building through environmental 
partnerships with key research organisations 
to support effective marine planning and 
management
 »Progress environmental approvals for new 
energy opportunities22022 PRIORITIES
Our approach 
We recognise our responsibility to help protect the planet. 
Our strong environmental performance reflects our sensitivity 
towards the natural environment where we operate. We are 
committed to continuous improvement in the performance of 
our operations by minimising the impact our activities has on 
the environment. Our environmental approach complies with 
all applicable environmental laws and regulations, follows best 
practice and is underpinned by robust science based decisions. 
We work to minimise our environmental impacts by integrating 
world-class environmental management into our activities and 
the design, construction, operation and decommissioning of 
our facilities. We continue to deliver sound and transparent environmental 
regulatory approvals for our activities, with the successful 
delivery of the primary environmental approvals for the 
Scarborough project. Our focus is on achieving better 
environmental outcomes by building our credible scientific 
knowledge, robust environmental impact assessment and 
effective risk management. We rely on having evidence based 
scientific knowledge to support our understanding of the local 
environment to inform environmental risk evaluation of our 
potential impacts upon it. 
To ensure leading environmental management and mitigation 
strategies has allowed us to minimise our environmental 
impacts. We have maintained over a 30 year record of oil and 
gas operations without any major environmental incidents. SIGNIFICANT TOPIC
1 A significant environmental incident is considered to be an incident that has moderate, medium-term impact on ecosystems, species, habitat or physical or biological attributes.
2 Refer to the glossary for definition. 
28 Sustainable Development Report 2021Our performance 
We have delivered strong environmental performance in 2021, 
with no significant environmental incidents. We continue 
to design out, operate out and offset our impacts, and are 
actively diversifying our portfolio. We continue to support 
international capacity building through our environmental 
partnerships and locally through partnering with Indigenous 
organisations to further understand the environmental and 
cultural sensitivities of our active operating environments.
Environmental risk management
Woodside's environmental management process is aligned 
with the International Standard ISO31000 for risk management. 
The process to identify impacts and risks and assess the 
potential consequence of an activity mandates that a risk 
hierarchy of controls be applied to management measures 
that are identified. This approach means we identify ways 
to eliminate or avoid an impact before we consider ways 
of reducing or minimising it. The management measures 
include, at a minimum, those that are considered good 
international industry practice. The end result of this  
risk-based process is that the residual impacts of an activity 
are at a level we consider to be acceptable, and that any 
residual risk has been reduced to a level that is considered 
as low as reasonably practicable (ALARP).
We regularly reassess environmental impacts and risks 
of operations across our portfolio at the activity level. 
To incorporate emerging scientific understanding and 
best practices, ultimately resulting in more robust 
environmental outcomes. 
Our Environment Risk Management Procedure includes the 
use of a decision support framework based on principles 
set out in the Guidance on Risk Related Decision Making 
(Oil and Gas UK 2014). This framework guides us to 
appropriately understand a risk, determine if the risk or 
impact is acceptable and can be demonstrated to be ALARP. 
Identified significant environmental risks that involve 
greater complexity and uncertainty requires adoption of the 
precautionary principle approach and consideration of the 
company and societal values by performing broader internal 
and external stakeholder consultation.Investment in science
Our science strategy underpins and enables us to deliver 
strong environmental performance, strengthening our 
environmental leadership and innovation. Our continued 
investment in science allows us to collaborate to build shared 
capability and knowledge through partnerships with some of 
the world's leading experts and research organisations.
Our commitment to shared scientific understanding 
of biodiversity in the regions in which we operate is 
demonstrated through our significant and meaningful 
partnerships. We partner with industry experts and research 
institutions to understand the environments in which we 
operate and inform decision making. This applies to the 
entire life cycle of our operations, from exploration and 
development to production and decommissioning.
We have established a number of research projects in order 
to understand the marine environments in which we operate. 
Where scientific data does not exist, we assume that a 
pristine natural environment exists and, therefore, implement 
all practicable steps to eliminate, avoid, reduce or minimise 
impacts to follow the precautionary principle approach. 
Refer to page 91 for further information about Major 
incident preparedness.
Biodiversity 
We recognise the importance of biodiversity and minimising 
our possible impact to the variety of plant and animal life 
(flora and fauna) within habitats in and surrounding the 
areas where we are active. We are taking action to help 
restore landscapes and support biodiversity, both in Australia 
and overseas.
Our exploration and operations are not within World 
Heritage Listed properties. Where our projects are adjacent 
to World Heritage areas, these activities are not incompatible 
with their values. Furthermore, any exploration or operations 
in International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) 
Protected Areas Categories I to IV is only undertaken with 
an appropriate plan that meets regulatory requirements and 
adheres to stakeholder expectations. Additionally, none of 
our facilities are within IUCN locations.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 29Strong partnerships, sound research and transparency 
are key elements of our approach to minimising our 
environmental impact on biodiversity. We partner with 
science focused organisations to further our understanding 
of the existing environment in which we operate. A key focus 
of the risk-based process undertaken for environmental 
impacts is defined under the relevant environmental 
regulations and legislation. This includes threatened and 
migratory species and a key component of robust impact 
assessment is to evaluate activities against the relevant 
actions of recovery plans and conservation advice for 
protected species. Our three-year funding agreement between 
Woodside and BirdLife Australia supports 
annual fieldwork to monitor and tag 
migratory shorebirds in the Exmouth Gulf, 
a Key Biodiversity Area and recognised 
habitat for shorebird populations that are 
part of the East Asian Australasian Flyway. 
Threatened migratory shorebird species 
spend the Australian summer feeding and 
resting on coastal and wetland habitats 
including areas in proximity to our activities 
in Western Australia.CASE STUDY: WOODSIDE AND  
BIRDLIFE AUSTRALIA
 
Image courtesy of BirdLife Australia. Photo of Great 
Knot, Red Knot, Crested Tern, Caspian Tern, Bar-
tailed and Godwit in the north of Western Australia.
30 
Sustainable Development Report 2021Marine turtles
Western Australia contains some of the largest and most 
active marine turtle nesting beaches for five of the seven 
species of threatened marine turtle species globally.  
Our activities are adjacent to some of these coastal locations 
and understanding the timing, distribution and behaviour 
of marine turtles is important for sustainable development 
approaches. We have supported the Government of Western 
Australia’s Department of Biodiversity, Conservation and 
Attractions Ningaloo Turtle Program since 2012. The aim 
of the program is to support the conservation and long-
term survival of marine turtle populations through the 
identification of key nesting beaches; long-term monitoring 
of nesting and hatchling success; and assessment of trends 
along the Ningaloo Coast.
This knowledge addresses current gaps in the understanding 
of key threatened and migratory species status and provides 
new information on specific nesting behaviours and trends  
for nesting marine turtle species. Importantly, this supports evidence-based effective on-ground 
management and conservation activities such as public 
outreach and marine turtles nesting code of conduct for 
visitors within Ningaloo Marine Park and the Ningaloo Coast 
World Heritage Area.
The current Ningaloo Turtle Program support provides 
for a co-funded PhD research program with Edith Cowan 
University and Department of Biodiversity, Conservation  
and Attractions on ghost crabs predation on turtle hatchlings 
along the Ningaloo coastline. The study tracked hatchling 
emergence over two nesting seasons at two loggerhead 
nesting beaches to assess the likelihood of predation on 
turtle hatchlings by ghost crabs. It is recognised that ghost 
crabs are a major predator for marine turtle eggs and 
hatchlings globally. This research supports the long-term 
ecological understanding of these threatened and migratory 
marine turtle species and allows for better environmental 
management at key nesting locations in Western Australia.
The Ningaloo Turtle Program as 
established by the Department of 
Biodiversity, Conservation and Attractions 
and partners in 2002 and is a flagship 
community volunteer turtle-monitoring 
program. It is the longest running 
volunteer-based marine turtle-monitoring 
program in the southern hemisphere.
Woodside has supported the program 
since 2002 and has extended support  
until 2024. 
The program tracks marine turtle nesting 
activity on an annual basis providing long-
term trends for species such as green, 
loggerhead and hawksbill turtles which 
feed, rest and nest within the Ningaloo 
Marine Park and Ningaloo Coast UNESCO 
World Heritage Area. 
Over the past three years the program 
monitoring has expanded to more remote 
parts of the Ningaloo coast with support 
from traditional owners, and the Ningaloo 
Turtle Program has developed the turtle 
watching code of conduct and operates 
marine turtle education tours and patrols 
during the key turtle nesting season.CASE STUDY: THE NINGALOO TURTLE 
PROGRAM 
 
A loggerhead turtle.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 31Pygmy blue whale
The offshore waters of Western Australia are important 
habitat for threatened and migratory blue whale species 
including foraging areas for the pygmy blue whale. 
Understanding blue whale migratory timing, distribution 
and behaviour is critical to managing interactions with our 
activities. In 2021, we partnered with Australian Institute 
of Marine Science to explore innovative satellite tracking 
technology to understand the migratory movements and 
diving behaviours in pygmy blue whales, expanding the 
spatial understanding of foraging and migration. Using the 
data collected in this study, we were able to model pygmy 
blue whale behaviours to better represent animal movements 
due to sound exposure. This supports impact assessment 
across all stakeholders and enables Woodside to undertake 
more informed decisions around management and  
mitigation of risks.
Furthermore, we are working with JASCO Applied Sciences, 
a consulting and research company on assessing and 
mitigating underwater noise. We have deployed seabed 
acoustic listening systems to record vocalising whales off 
the North West Shelf for a period of five months. This data 
is expected to help guide policy makers, scientists, industry 
and the broader public on key knowledge that is the basis of 
developing relevant management and mitigation strategies 
to help the recovery of this threatened species. Environmental science underpins our approach to 
impact assessment and risk management. In 2021, 
we continued to focus on eliminating or minimising 
any impacts of underwater noise on pygmy blue 
whales by better understanding: 1) pygmy blue whale 
seasonal movements and behaviours off Western 
Australia, 2) the noise associated with our activities, 
3) developing novel impact assessment approaches 
and 4) implementing new management and 
mitigation controls to our offshore activities.
In 2021, we documented the seasonal presence of 
migratory pygmy blue whales in our operational areas 
off Western Australia using an underwater acoustic 
detection system that records the presence of 
vocalising whales like pygmy blue whales. In addition, 
we tracked the migration pathways and behaviours of 
pygmy blue whales in Western Australian waters via 
small satellite tags attached to individual whales, in a 
collaboration with the Australian Institute of Marine 
Science (AIMS). In conjunction with JASCO Applied 
Sciences, we developed new and novel methods to 
model the interaction of pygmy blue whales with 
predicted noise footprints in our operational areas 
to inform our ongoing noise management. Using 
these (and other) data, we developed a range of new 
management controls including avoiding time periods 
when whales are present and implementing vessel 
speed limits and activity shutdowns when whales are 
detected by trained observers.CASE STUDY: MANAGING AND MITIGATING 
UNDERWATER NOISE IMPACTS AND RISKS  
TO PYGMY BLUE WHALE
 
Image of a potato cod.
32 Sustainable Development Report 2021Research has shown that whale sharks 
can visit Woodside's offshore platforms 
for extended periods, presumably to 
forage for food. For example, at the 
Pluto platform one whale shark remained 
resident over 24 days being detected 
4,894 times. A whale shark at North 
Rankin Complex was detected 15 times 
over a 90-day period.CASE STUDY: RESIDENT WHALE 
SHARKS AT PLUTO
 
Image of a whale shark 
in North West Australia.
Whale sharks 
Whale sharks are the world’s largest fish and annually 
migrate through the waters of Western Australia’s North 
West to feed in the waters off Ningaloo. For many years 
whale sharks have regularly been seen near our offshore 
platforms. In recent years, University of Western Australia 
researchers have placed acoustic receivers adjacent to four 
of our offshore platforms for between 12 and 90 days. The 
receivers can listen for any of the 40 whale sharks that have 
been previously tagged with acoustic transmitters. This study 
has shown that whale sharks can visit our offshore platforms 
for extended periods, presumably to forage for food. 
This research was recently published in the scientific journal, 
Frontiers in Marine Science. Understanding offshore reef systems
We have been supporting leading research institutions such 
as the Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS) since 
1993. Over the past 25 years we have worked with and  
co-funded research undertaken by AIMS at Scott Reef,  
a remote reef system adjacent to the proposed Browse 
Project. This partnership has offered scientists a unique 
opportunity to study this remote atoll and has led to the 
establishment of one of the longest and most comprehensive 
investigations of a coral reef system in Australia. This research 
has identified ways in which corals and fishes depend on each 
other for survival; how corals can adapt to extreme changes 
in depth; the effect of water movements on the flow of 
nutrients; and the importance of the reef to migratory  
turtles and whales.
In 2021, Woodside and the Browse Joint Venture supported 
AIMS in continuing the long-term monitoring program at 
Scott Reef. The latest round of survey activities by AIMS 
has extended the time-series data on corals and fish, and 
undertaken eDNA analyses of water samples from the 
reef for detection of invasive marine species. This research 
program allows AIMS to better understand the exposure 
and resilience of Scott Reef’s coral and fish communities to 
global pressures.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 33Native Reforestation Project 
In 2021, Woodside established a program aimed at directly 
leasing portions of land in Western Australia for biodiverse 
carbon plantings. 
Woodside continue to undertake carbon origination projects 
in regional Western Australia. Woodside in partnership with 
Greening Australia planted native trees on 3,000 hectares 
during 2020 and 2021 on three Woodside properties in 
Western Australia: Cowcher, Sukey Hill and Manalling 
Springs. More recently, Woodside purchased an additional 
two properties, Willcocks and Linscott in Western Australia's 
Wheatbelt region for planting in 2022. 
Woodside’s carbon projects involve the reforestation 
of cleared low-productivity agricultural landscapes and 
increased habitat connectivity through restored landscape 
linkages. These project sites are drawing on a range of 
local native tree and shrub species typically represented in 
remnant vegetation.
Woodside is also evaluating other potential carbon projects 
in the rangelands region utilising the human-induced 
regeneration (HIR) method which are anticipated to provide 
similar biodiversity benefits. 
Primary environmental approvals
All key primary and environmental approvals for the 
Scarborough (offshore) and Pluto Train 2 (onshore) to 
support the final investment decisions are in place, with 
secondary environmental approvals progressing to support 
project execution activities. In 2022, North West Shelf Project Extension and Browse 
primary approvals will continue to be progressed. 
Woodside's Pluto Greenhouse Gas Abatement Program 
(GGAP) was approved by the Western Australian Minister 
for Environment. The GGAP includes interim and long-term 
targets to achieve a 30% emissions reduction from approved 
levels by 2030 and net zero by 2050 across the entire 
project.1 The targets incorporate emissions associated  
with Pluto Train 2.
Scarborough
Scarborough gas will play an important role in the energy 
transition. With only about 0.1% carbon dioxide in the 
reservoir and processed through an efficient onshore LNG  
train, Scarborough will support meeting our customer's 
energy needs. 
We received the final primary environmental approval for the 
Scarborough nearshore pipeline crossing through the state 
waters section to the onshore facility. 
The discovery of Australia’s first sub-tidal Indigenous 
archaeological finds at two locations in the waters of Burrup 
Peninsula (Murujuga) in July 2020 has confirmed that 
Indigenous artefacts may persist in the submerged landscape.
Esperance
AlbanyMoora
Merredin
BusseltonPerthGeraldton
Williams
0 100 200 300
KilometresCowcher
Sukey HillLinscott
Manalling Springs/
Windy Lane
Human-induced regeneration
area of interestWillcocksCARBON ORIGINATION PROJECT AREAS
Enviroplanting project locations
 Woodside properties
 Pluto trees project locations
  Human-induced regeneration 
area of interest
1 Pluto LNG Development Public Environmental Review (2006) emissions estimate of 4.1 Mtpa CO2-e for two LNG trains.
34 Sustainable Development Report 2021Woodside has proactively collaborated with Murujuga 
Aboriginal Corporation (MAC) and heritage experts from the 
University of Western Australia, who made ground-breaking 
discoveries in Murujuga’s waters, to design a research 
project to assess areas of archaeological prospectivity 
along the Scarborough pipeline route within the proposed 
development area to understand the submerged cultural 
landscape of Murujuga. 
This research project concluded that the Scarborough  
project is likely to have nil to low impact on archaeological 
heritage values and that the proposed pipeline route is the 
preferred option within Mermaid Sound. In particular,  
the planned Scarborough project will have nil to low impact 
on any submerged heritage sites.
This research provides Woodside with much greater 
certainty that the proposed Scarborough project has 
considered impacts to cultural heritage and facilitates 
continuing work with Traditional Custodians to understand 
and protect cultural values.
Burrup Air Monitoring Program
The Burrup Peninsula (Murujuga) is unique worldwide for its 
collection of petroglyphs, engravings that have been etched, 
rubbed or scratched into the rocks. The presence of industry 
on the Burrup Peninsula has generated concerns from some 
stakeholders that these emissions may lead to an accelerated 
weathering or deterioration of rock art. In 2021, Woodside 
continued to support the WA Government’s Murujuga Rock 
Art Strategy both financially and through the provision of 
historical and contemporary data. 
Woodside has undertaken or contributed to air monitoring 
studies of the Burrup Peninsula since 2008 with the 
objective of measuring our emissions and understanding any 
potential impacts in the region. In 2021, we expanded our 
Burrup Air Monitoring Program to include monitoring dry 
and wet nitrogen deposition that may be associated with 
emissions from Pluto LNG and Karratha Gas Plant at five 
monitoring stations. This is enhancing our understanding of 
our potential interactions on the surrounding environment.  
In addition, Woodside continues to support the World 
Heritage listing of the Murujuga and the associated programs 
that seek to ensure industrial air emissions are not impacting 
on this unique cultural area.
Refer to page 47 of this report for more information 
about Cultural heritage management.
New Energy 
Our new energy opportunities continue to demonstrate 
Woodside's focus on developing innovative technologies to 
meet customer demands for low-cost, lower-carbon energy. 
Studies and planning to initiate environmental approvals for 
these opportunities has commenced.Refer to page 26 of this report on for more 
information about New energy products and  
lower-carbon services.
Waste management 
We strive to reduce our environmental footprint and promote 
the efficient use and sustainable recovery and regeneration 
of waste through implementing our waste management 
hierarchy. Our approach considers avoid, reduce, recycle and 
re-use as the standard and disposal last. This is tracked to 
identify opportunities for improvement as we continuously 
strive for more sustainable outcomes. 
The waste management hierarchy has been applied  
across our supply chain, including all locations and  
activities throughout the life cycle from the design phase 
through to decommissioning. This hierarchy of control is 
consistent with good international industry practice,  
and our Corporate Environment Performance Procedure.  
We prepare Waste Management Plans to document our 
waste management activities globally and to manage waste 
in an environmentally responsible manner. Waste from our 
international projects is disposed of in line with international 
standards or where applicable with Australian standards.
Woodside is committed to not placing increased 
pressure on waste management facilities in Dakar.  
We have worked with a local company to build a 
waste management sorting, storage and treatment 
facility to increase in-country capability to treat 
key waste streams, while leveraging existing local 
re-use and recycling capability where available. This 
minimises waste disposal impacts and contributes 
to building local capacity. In anticipation of 
commissioning of the waste treatment facility in Q1 
2022, a number of waste streams are currently being 
securely stored until this facility is fully operational.CASE STUDY: SANGOMAR WASTE MANAGEMENT
NOTE: 
Data in the proceeding table (page 36-37) has been prepared in accordance 
with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards core option and with 
reference to the IPIECA API and IOGP (2020) Sustainability Reporting 
Guidance for the oil and gas industry. The climate-related data table that 
appears in the Climate Report 2021 includes some consistent data points and 
additional data points prepared in alignment with the recommendations of 
TCFD and with reference to relevant metrics from the Sustainable Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) Oil and Gas Upstream Standard.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 352021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Hydrocarbon production2
Total – equity (kt)3 10,522 11,552 10,293 10,389 9,518
Total (kt)4 25,807 29,834 28,618 30,283 29,639
Revenue
Revenue - equity (US$ M)5 6,962 3,600 4,873 5,240 3,975
Greenhouse gas emissions6
Scope 1 emissions – equity (kt CO₂-e)3,7 3,541 3,598 3,302 3,535 3,337
Scope 1 emissions (kt CO₂-e)4,88,901 9,170 8,840 9,767 9,883
Scope 2 emissions (kt CO₂-e) 8 10 7 8 8
Scope 3 emissions (use of sold product) – equity 
(kt CO₂-e)927,906 32,935 27,888 NPR* NPR*
Scope 3 emissions (use of sold product – Traded 
LNG) – equity (kt CO₂-e)96,886 NPR* NPR* NPR* NPR*
Scope 3 emissions (use of sold product)  
(kt CO₂-e)9 72,969 84,923 74,017 NPR* NPR*
Scope 1 emissions intensity – equity (kt CO₂-e/kt) 0.34 0.31 0.32 0.34 0.35
Scope 1 emissions intensity (kt CO₂-e/kt) 0.34 0.31 0.31 0.32 0.33
Scope 1 emissions intensity – equity (kt CO₂-e/
revenue-equity US$ M)50.51 1.00 0.68 0.67 0.84
Greenhouse gas emissions by gas - operational
CO₂ 8,564 8,860 8,506 9,356 9,439
CH₄ (kt CO₂-e)6,10326 300 325 400 428
Methane intensity - volume percentage  
(Sm3/Sm3)6,100.064 0.051 NPR* NPR* NPR*
Greenhouse gas emissions by source
Fuel combustion (kt CO₂-e) 6,527 6,839 6,496 7,048 7,037
Flare (kt CO₂-e)8759 559 608 696 817
Venting (kt CO₂-e) 1,614 1,771 1,736 2,021 1,990
Other (kt CO₂-e) 1 0 1 1 46
Flared gas11
Total flaring – equity (tonnes)11154,546 
[97,909]121,740 111,666 138,610 158,739
Total flaring (tonnes)11250,562 
[172,307]177,384 201,368 234,801 280,517
Flaring intensity – equity (t/kt)1114.7 
[9.3]10.5 10.8 13.3 16.7
Flaring intensity (t/kt)119.7 
[6.7]5.9 7.0 7.8 9.5
Non-greenhouse gas emissions12
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (tonnes) 12,973 13,023 11,713 12,652 20,620
Sulphur oxides (SOx) (tonnes) 50 52 49 53 52
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) (tonnes) 16,445 17,665 13,223 18,759 19,138
Refrigerants13
CFC-11 (tonnes) 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.02
Resource use14
Fuel consumption15
Total fuel consumption – equity (TJ) 47,834 49,731 45,490 48,936 42,021
Total fuel consumption (TJ) 129,855 136,480 126,412 140,433 139,786
Fuel intensity – equity (TJ/kt) 4.5 4.3 4.4 4.7 4.4
Fuel intensity (TJ/kt) 5.0 4.6 4.5 4.6 4.7ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE1
36 Sustainable Development Report 20212021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Electricity consumption
Grid electricity consumption (TJ)14 41 52 37 43 40
Water
Fresh water use (m³)14,16 399,443 368,017 311,129 345,576 364,667
Fresh water intensity (m³/kt)17 15 12 11 11 12
Produced formation water – reinjection (m³) 7,941,229 4,812,942 1,888,731 4,743,523 9,575,269
Produced formation water – open marine (m³) 3,076,324 3,155,704 2,547,335 3,039,701 3,022,350
Produced formation water – oil load open  
marine (kg)28,673 30,836 17,687 18,173 26,237
Waste18
Non-hazardous (tonnes) 2,600 2,940 2,548 2,768 2,956
Hazardous (tonnes) 12,967 9,913 7,634 8,220 6,645
Total waste (tonnes) 15,566 12,853 10,182 10,987 9,601
Waste disposal
Incineration (tonnes) 0 0 n/a n/a n/a
Evaporation (tonnes) 7,082 6,198 5,030 5,511 3,115
Landfill (tonnes) 2,218 3,314 2,256 2,316 2,418
Re-used/recycled (tonnes) 5,064 3,173 2,767 3,018 3,991
Other (tonnes) 1,202 168 130 142 77
Environmental incidents19
Total number of hydrocarbon spills >1 bbl 0 0 2 2 n/a
Total – Quantity of hydrocarbon spilt for spills  
>1 bbl (m³)0 0 65.05 82.44 n/a
Total number of non-hydrocarbon spills >1 bbl 0 2 6 1 2
Total – Quantity of non-hydrocarbon spilt for  
spills >1 bbl (m³)0 27.62 12.58 1.00 4.40
1 Performance data is reported on a total and Woodside equity share basis as appropriate.
2 Hydrocarbon production includes exportable hydrocarbons only. Exportable means Woodside produced and sold hydrocarbons, including domestic gas, LNG, condensate, 
oil and liquefied petroleum gas. This excludes Traded LNG. 
3 The equity portion of greenhouse gas emissions, flare, fuel and production values include data from non-operated ventures where Woodside owns an equity portion,  
where data has been made available. 
4 Operated greenhouse gas emissions, flare, fuel and production values are for Woodside operated production assets only. 
5 Please see Annual Report 2021 for more information on Total Operating Revenue.
6 Greenhouse gas emissions, energy values and global warming potentials are estimated in accordance with the Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) 
methodology as applicable in FY20-21. Calculated using a 100 year Global Warming Potential in accordance with the Australian NGER regulations.
7 Equity emissions from non-hydrocarbon producing subsidiary companies e.g. shipping companies are excluded. 
8 Total inerts flared in CY2021 was 223.7 kt CO₂-e.
9 Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions are based on use of sold product only and are calculated using combustion factors in accordance with National Greenhouse and Energy 
Reporting (NGER). Traded LNG means the purchase and/or sale of spot and/or strip of LNG cargoes. 
10 Increased reported Methane emissions in 2021 includes the impact of the updated flared emissions methodology (updated in 2020-2021 reported figures). Methane intensity 
includes production related to marketed natural gas specifically LNG, domestic gas, propane and butane production.
11 Flared emissions calculation methodology updated in 2020 to align with NGER. Includes inert compounds which have a global warming potential of zero. The majority of 
the difference between 2020 and 2021 flaring is due to inclusion of inerts in 2021 calculations as defined in Australian reporting standards. For comparison, 2021 figures are 
shown in square brackets excluding flared inerts.
12 NOx, SOx and VOC emissions estimated in accordance with NPI techniques using a combination of direct measurement, engineering calculation and emission factors. 
Emissions are aggregated for all facilities and are irrespective of NPI reporting thresholds. 
13 Woodside no longer acquires Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS), in line with applicable legislation and protocols. Woodside has phased out most ODS and has an active 
project to replace equipment still using ODS. 
14 Grid electricity consumption and municipal water use has been partially estimated where data was not available. 
15 Fuel sources primarily include fuel gas and Diesel. 
16 Includes Corporate, KGP, PGP and KBSF municipal water use. 
17 The water intensity denominator is based on production figures on an operational control basis. 
18 Increased reported waste in 2021 is associated with inclusion of additional waste sources not previously reported. 
19 Reportable spills include spill greater than 1 bbl which have been released to the environment.
* NPR refers to Not Previously Reported.
n/a Not applicable.continued
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 37
Decommissioning involves the management, removal or repurposing of 
infrastructure that is no longer in use in the areas where we are active.  
As the decommissioning landscape continues to evolve we remain committed  
to working with governments, regulators and industry peers. DECOMMISSIONING
Our approach
Woodside remains committed to a robust process to deliver 
decommissioning outcomes aligned with regulatory and 
societal expectations. 
We see science and marine research outcomes as a critical 
input into making informed and balanced decommissioning 
decisions. We partner with local and international 
research organisations to increase our understanding of 
environmental impacts, risks and benefits associated with 
different decommissioning options for our infrastructure.
Comprehensive assessments to inform our planning and 
decision-making process. We use relevant regulations, 
international best practice and consultation with 
stakeholders to inform our understanding of the proposed 
options for decommissioning. 
We are committed to the re-use, repurposing and recycling 
of as much of our decommissioned infrastructure as 
practicable. In 2021 we partnered with industry specialists to improve  
re-use pathways, initiated a crowd-sourcing challenge  
with prizes for ideas to repurpose flexible pipelines,  
and collaborated with industry to understand and 
expand the recycling capability in the Western Australian 
market. We will continue to seek innovative solutions for 
decommissioned infrastructure. 
Woodside has the capability and resources to deliver on 
our responsibilities across the decommissioning portfolio. 
We maintain a multidisciplinary decommissioning team 
including environment, social and technical experts 
to manage the portfolio and deliver safe, timely and 
environmentally responsible outcomes.
Woodside’s decommissioning estimate is calculated in 
accordance with relevant accounting standards. Our balance 
sheet is audited annually as part of financial reporting. »Completed the plugging and abandonment  
of the Echo Yodel and Capella wells 
 »Awarded contracts for 2022-2023 
decommissioning program
 »Collaboration via the Centre of Decommissioning 
Australia and National Decommissioning 
Research Initiative2021 HIGHLIGHTS
 »Execute plug and abandonment of 22 wells  
in Enfield and Balnaves fields
 »Planning contract awards for work scheduled  
for decommissioning activities in 2023, 2024  
and 2025 
 »Continue review of options to re-use, repurpose 
and recycle decommissioned infrastructure2022 PRIORITIESIMPORTANT TOPIC
38 Sustainable Development Report 2021 
Woodside employees  
at Mia Yellagonga.
We are committed to working with governments, regulators 
and our industry peers to collaboratively develop and 
improve the decommissioning regulatory framework as the 
decommissioning landscape continues to evolve. In 2021,  
we provided submissions individually and through the 
Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association 
(APPEA) on proposed updates to regulations and guidelines. 
We also continue to participate in the ongoing consultation 
with government and industry regarding the Northern 
Endeavour Floating Production Storage and Offtake facility. 
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 39Our performance
We listen and learn from our stakeholders. Woodside 
recognises that there are varying stakeholder views 
on how we decommission. We remain committed to 
proactively planning and maintaining our infrastructure for 
decommissioning throughout the life cycle of an asset.
Our knowledge and understanding has progressed and 
improved over the past three years of decommissioning 
activities. Feedback received from undertaking assessment 
of options and stakeholder engagement has informed our 
approach to decommissioning going forward. We seek 
the appropriate balance across technical feasibility, costs, 
environment and social impacts and opportunities.
In 2021 we contracted decommissioning scopes 
across multiple Australian assets. We commenced the 
decommissioning of Echo Yodel field, around 140 km  
north-west of Dampier in Western Australia, with the 
successful plugging and abandoning of the Yodel wells.  
Woodside has also committed funding to establish innovative 
approaches to decommissioning challenges such as the 
management of waste and how we deliver our activities. 
Enfield
In 2021 we received a general direction from National 
Offshore Petroleum Safety and Environmental Management 
Authority (NOPSEMA) requiring the removal of infrastructure 
at Enfield, around 38 km north of North West Cape off the 
coast of Western Australia, by the end of 2024. Environmental 
approvals are in progress for the removal of Enfield subsea 
infrastructure such as christmas trees and wellheads. We are 
committed to completing these activities in accordance with 
the requirements of the regulatory direction.
One of the future options for decommissioned infrastructure 
is to repurpose it and create artificial reefs. Artificial reefs can 
support a range of local and regional social, economic and 
environmental benefits. The structure can provide a habitat 
for different species and increase local productivity to support 
high fish abundances. In 2021, we proposed to create an 
integrated artificial reef using the Enfield riser turret mooring.
This complex habitat would have supported a diverse 
range of species and provided important fishing grounds 
to recreational fishers. However, during the approvals 
process we recognised the need to demonstrate the long-
term acceptability of degradation of infrastructure in the 
marine environment. We are now pursuing the removal 
of the riser turret mooring. Woodside will continue to 
assess decommissioning options, including artificial reef 
options, on a case by case basis informed by science and 
stakeholder engagement.
In 2022, we plan to commence the Enfield subsea plug  
and abandon campaign involving 18 wells over 12 months  
of activity.Collaboration
A collaborative approach is essential to better understand 
the impacts, risks and benefits of different decommissioning 
options for Australia’s offshore oil and gas infrastructure in 
coming decades. 
In 2021, Woodside participated in APPEA and Centre of 
Decommissioning Australia working groups. These forums 
enable industry peers to share learnings and contribute to 
harnessing decommissioning challenges as economic,  
social and environmental opportunities. 
In addition, Woodside is a founding member of the National 
Decommissioning Research Initiative (NDRI), which seeks 
to collect environmental scientific knowledge to support 
internal decisions, regulatory approval processes and 
stakeholder understanding. Importantly, the research 
program is overseen by an independent scientific advisory 
group and the outcomes will be shared openly and 
transparently with all stakeholders. Two research streams  
are being progressed:
• Understanding the biodiversity on offshore infrastructure 
across Australia
• Better understanding of the impacts and risks of 
contaminants associated with offshore infrastructure
Research outcomes are expected throughout 2022. 
Look ahead
In 2022, we will continue to collaborate with our peers  
to equip industry for increased decommissioning activities. 
The removal of four wells from the Balnaves field is also 
planned to commence in 2022. We will also continue 
studies to inform our key decisions and progress with our 
decommissioning commitments.
40 Sustainable Development Report 2021The 23 km Echo Yodel pipeline connects to the 
Goodwyn A platform and is comprised of a 
stainless-steel inner pipeline coated by a four-layer 
polypropylene outer for protection and insulation. 
Woodside, in collaboration with the University of 
Western Australia, undertook a series of studies 
to better understand and assess fish diversity and 
abundance on the Echo Yodel pipeline. The key 
findings showed infrastructure offers significant 
habitat that supports diverse and important 
commercially important fish species, with higher 
fish abundance found on the subsea infrastructure 
than expected. The relative biomass of commercially 
important fish species was on average 7.5 times higher 
on the pipeline than in adjacent natural habitats.  
This research has been published in 13 peer-reviewed 
papers to enable the knowledge to be shared. 
We looked to balance the near-term benefits of the 
infrastructure to fisheries with the risk of longer-
term degradation of infrastructure. Our options 
assessment, including stakeholder engagement, led to 
the initial proposal to leave the pipeline, umbilical and 
associated subsea infrastructure in place. This decision 
was informed by science on the current ecological 
benefit and commercial fishery value provided by the 
infrastructure and in consultation with stakeholders. 
Following the commencement of the environmental 
approval process our approach changed to address 
the concerns over the degradation of plastic and 
long-term presence of the pipeline and umbilical 
if left in place. Scientific research and engagement 
indicated the potential benefits of the infrastructure 
remaining in place. However, subsequent 
engagement with the regulator and stakeholders 
raised concerns leading to the decision to remove 
the infrastructure.CASE STUDY: ECHO YODEL PIPELINE REMOVAL
 
Mystery circles providing evidence 
of a potential new species of 
pufferfish spotted on video 
footage collected by Fugro during 
an inspection of the Echo Yodel 
subsea infrastructure – operated by 
Woodside on behalf of the North 
West Shelf Project participants.
 
Image courtesy of Australian 
Institute of Marine Science.
 
Image courtesy of Australian 
Institute of Marine Science.
 
Image courtesy of Dr Todd Bond.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 41
OVERVIEW
SOCIALSOCIAL AND CULTURAL IMPACTS ON COMMUNITIES
Woodside is committed to managing our activities in a sustainable way  
and delivering positive outcomes in the areas where we are active.
Our approach
Woodside is committed to managing our activities in a 
sustainable way that is fundamental to the wellbeing of  
our workforce, our communities and our environment. 
We are guided by our Compass Values as well as our 
Sustainable Communities Policy, Human Rights Policy and 
Indigenous Communities Policy that set the expectations to 
foster respectful relationships with communities where we 
are active, manage adverse impacts and create sustainable 
opportunities for our communities to share in our success.Our priorities for 2022 include: embedding social investment 
impact measurement reporting; implementing a fit for 
purpose approach to social performance for new business 
activities; and progressing further improvements to our 
complaints and grievances management. »Launched a new five-year 
social investment strategy
 »Embedded Social 
Performance Framework in 
our operations and active 
monitoring in place for key 
community indicators
 »Released a new five-year 
stretch Reconciliation 
Action Plan (RAP) with 
Reconciliation Australia2021 HIGHLIGHTS
 »Continue our approach to 
social performance and 
management of social 
licence to operate  
(SLTO) risks
 »Review social impact 
assessment and 
management plans for  
our active communitiesOPPORTUNITIES
 »Unintended adverse social 
and cultural impacts 
associated with projects 
and new business activities
 »Failure to meet expectations 
of stakeholders to deliver 
localised economic 
outcomes
 »Failing to engage with 
Traditional Owners and 
Custodians to understand 
community concerns 
regarding cultural heritageRISKSMATERIAL TOPIC
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 43 
Fostering relationships
Principles:
• Woodside aims to build trust with stakeholders and 
communities through transparent, timely and respectful 
engagement
• We acknowledge the unique connection that Indigenous 
communities have to land, waters and the environment
• We build respectful relationships with Indigenous 
communities where we are active and ensure the voices, 
views and aspirations of Indigenous communities and 
leaders are heard and understood within Woodside
• We seek to understand the interests and concerns of 
communities and stakeholders in our ongoing and 
planned activities.
Respectful engagement
We seek to understand the expectations of the 
communities where we are active and share timely 
information about our activities.
During 2021, we continued to host quarterly Karratha 
Community Liaison Group meetings. Key topics discussed at 
the meetings included housing, local participation, regulatory 
approvals, new energy, climate and the environment. 
In addition, we engaged a variety of local stakeholders 
including Traditional Owners and Custodians, government 
representatives, community partners, industry and local 
suppliers and contractors and participated in forums 
hosted by community and non-government organisations. Engagements included business round table events, 
participating in the City of Karratha Safer Communities 
Partnership, Roebourne community discussions, senior 
leader meetings with the City of Karratha, school and 
community presentations and social investment partnership 
meetings. These engagements aimed to inform stakeholders 
of our activities and understand community expectations, 
issues of importance and emerging trends. 
We also participated in three joint operator Exmouth Oil and 
Gas Community Reference Group meetings, providing a forum 
for local community, industry and government stakeholders 
and our oil and gas peers to discuss operations and community 
issues. Key topics discussed at the meetings include operator 
updates, environment plans and community partnerships.
In response to Roebourne community organisations 
highlighting the value of positive role modelling for the 
community, Woodside worked with Roebourne community 
based organisations to connect aspiring community 
members with our Indigenous workforce. 
In 2021, we worked with the groups to enable conversations 
between our workforce, Roebourne regional prison work 
camp, Warrgamugardi Yirdiyabura trainees and the Roebourne 
After School Learning Club students. The conversations with 
the prison and trainee groups centred on balancing careers, 
family and culture and overcoming barriers to re-entering the 
workplace. The school students wanted to learn more about 
the work and life of Woodside’s Indigenous employees.SOCIAL PERFORMANCE PRINCIPLES Our performance
The three Social Performance principles that 
guide our global approach for our communities 
include:
• Fostering relationships 
• Managing our impacts
• Creating opportunities.
Our approach to social performance is executed 
through a localised model for communities where 
we are active and is ‘fit for purpose’ to reflect 
the nature and scale of our activities. For our 
host communities adjacent to our operations, 
we have completed communities assessments 
and associated social performance priorities that 
highlight key social risks and emerging trends, 
and propose management strategies that are 
actively tracked by our asset leadership teams. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
FOSTERING RELATIONSHIPS       MANAGING OUR IMPACTS 
CREATING OPPORTUNITIES
44 Sustainable Development Report 2021Feedback from Ngarluma Yindjibarndi Foundation Limited 
and the Roebourne After School Learning Club and 
Woodside participants was overwhelmingly positive and 
contributed to meaningful role modelling and relationship 
strengthening with the Roebourne community. 
We continued to meet with Traditional Owners and 
Custodians in Karratha and Roebourne on a quarterly basis 
to discuss cultural heritage management on the Burrup 
Peninsula, adjacent to our onshore North West Shelf Project 
and Pluto LNG sites, and other matters including Indigenous 
contracting, employment and social investment. 
Woodside has participated in robust discussions with 
Traditional Owners and Custodians about our development 
opportunities and related environment approvals. 
This has included ensuring the Ngarluma Yindjibarndi 
Foundation Limited, Murujuga Aboriginal Corporation and 
Ngarluma Aboriginal Corporation are supported to engage 
independent advisers to appropriately understand these 
environmental approvals and have resources to make 
submissions to the relevant regulator. 
During the year, we continued to meet regularly with 
Indigenous community partner organisations including 
Ngarluma Yindjibarndi Foundation Limited and Murujuga 
Aboriginal Corporation to discuss the implementation of 
our land access and benefits agreements and understand 
key concerns and issues.Senegal 
In support of our Sangomar Field Development offshore 
Senegal, we continued to engage with coastal communities 
in the Dakar, Thiès and Fatick regions. Woodside undertook 
an extensive community awareness campaign to support 
commencement of the development drilling campaign 
in July 2021. In addition to face to face engagement, 
Woodside continues to engage with the community 
through radio, fact sheets, quarterly community newsletters 
and social media updates. During community engagements, 
matters of local content and potential impacts to fisheries 
were raised by stakeholders. We continued to engage 
with stakeholders to address these matters and provided 
additional information on our management approach.
Outcomes from engagements and data from our perception 
surveys enable us to understand the expectations of 
our communities which is reflected in our communities 
assessments to inform business decisions.
 
Engaging with coastal communities on the Sangomar 
Field Development drilling activities, offshore Senegal.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 45Addressing community concerns
Woodside’s community grievance framework enables 
prompt and respectful receipt, investigation and response to 
community concerns from stakeholders in our operational 
areas. The associated mechanisms are available to community 
members who feel Woodside’s activities have impacted them.
In 2021, we received 10 community grievances from our 
operational areas. Concerns received related to contracting 
and job opportunities, vacant housing, land management and 
road safety. All grievances were addressed and discussed with 
relevant community members. 
Our recorded grievances have increased over the past few 
years, as a result of implementing a localised grievance 
mechanism into each of our operational areas, making 
communication more accessible for relevant stakeholders.
We have also put in place a new grievance process for our 
carbon based activities, providing relevant communities with 
a number of channels to convey their thoughts and concerns 
to the business.
In 2022, we expect to further develop our grievance 
mechanisms for our carbon and new energy activities.  
Community members can lodge grievances via the Community 
Concerns page on our website or they may contact their 
closest Woodside office.
Closed grievances2021 2020 2019 2018
Unresolved grievances246810
0
 TOTAL RECORDED GRIEVANCES
46 
Sustainable Development Report 2021Managing our impacts
Principles:
• Woodside aims to identify and understand the potential 
impacts and opportunities of our activities
• We seek to identify, manage and monitor impacts 
associated with our activities 
• We communicate progress and performance to 
stakeholders and communities where we are active  
on our impact management
• We ensure our management of cultural heritage is 
thorough, transparent and underpinned by consultation. 
We aim to avoid damage or disturbance to cultural 
heritage and, if avoidance is not possible, we minimise and 
mitigate the impacts, in close consultation with Indigenous 
communities and Traditional Owners and Custodians.
Social impact management
In 2021, Woodside reviewed our internal processes associated 
with social impact assessment and management to ensure 
alignment with good industry practice. Across the business we 
have integrated our approach with respect to the environment 
and human rights recognising that adverse impacts associated 
with our activities may have environmental, social, cultural or 
human rights elements that need active management.
Recognising the changes in our communities where we are 
active and our business priorities, we have started a process 
to reassess social impacts associated with our activities 
for our communities of Karratha and Roebourne. This is 
to ensure we continue to focus on managing the impacts 
and identifying opportunities that matter most to our 
neighbouring communities. This process involves ongoing 
engagement with communities and key stakeholders and  
is anticipated to be completed by mid-2022.
To support monitoring of the effectiveness of current 
social impact management measures in place for our 
Karratha operations, the business has established a social 
performance dashboard that is shared with the leadership 
team on a quarterly basis. The frequent review of emerging 
trends, key community indicators and stakeholder sentiment 
ensures the business is not creating adverse impacts.  
Key indicators currently being monitored include housing 
and accommodation, essential service provision, regional 
flight availability and local content efforts.
The social impact management measures proposed in 2019 
for Pluto Train 2 have been integrated into the engineering, 
procurement and construction (EPC) contract for the project. 
The management plan implementation will be actively 
monitored to ensure we are managing our construction 
related impacts in line with expectations of communities 
where we are active. Cultural heritage management
Woodside’s approach to understanding and managing cultural 
heritage has continued to evolve in 2021. We undertook an 
Australian first and precedent setting research in collaboration 
with Traditional Custodians to understand the cultural heritage 
values of Murujuga’s Sea Country. This work included the 
analysis of existing bathymetric and geophysical data to 
identify features of the submerged landscape, radiometric 
dating to understand how this landscape had developed over 
time and the creation of a predictive model based on onshore 
heritage locations to identify where heritage may persist 
on the seabed. Woodside has also commissioned a leading 
practice ethnographic survey of Sea Country to ensure this 
archaeological analysis is supplemented by an understanding 
of the cultural and spiritual values of this submerged land.
Woodside has consulted extensively with Traditional 
Custodian representatives on heritage and environment 
management plans for our operational and development 
activities. We develop Cultural Heritage Management Plans 
to mitigate any impacts to cultural heritage. In 2021 we have 
engaged with Traditional Custodians on the Scarborough 
Cultural Heritage Management Plan, Pluto Expansion Cultural 
Heritage Management Plan, Scarborough Dredging and Spoil 
Disposal Management Plan and North West Shelf Extension 
Project Environmental Referral Document. The information 
gathered through consultation on these management plans 
has informed revisions to the management plans.
We continued to undertake on Country visits with 
Traditional Custodians to inspect heritage site condition, 
discuss appropriate management measures, preserve 
connection to heritage sites and facilitate intergenerational 
knowledge transfer. Our annual heritage audits of Karratha 
Gas Plant and Pluto LNG were conducted with Traditional 
Custodians and the recommendations of this work with 
regards to ongoing maintenance and land management 
are being implemented. No new concerns regarding any 
heritage sites were raised. Additionally, at the request of 
Traditional Custodians, a visit to the Pluto Conservation 
Zone was undertaken to inspect heritage sites not subject 
to regular heritage audits and to facilitate the ongoing 
connection of stakeholders with these sites.
Refer to page 35 for more information about  
the Burrup Air Monitoring Program.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 47 
Creating opportunities
Principles:
• We support communities where we are active to build 
sustainable outcomes that align with the needs  
and aspirations of communities
• We partner with Indigenous communities and empower 
Indigenous voices to enable stronger economic,  
social and cultural outcomes
• We aim to pursue opportunities that contribute towards 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals that 
best align with our operations, value chain and impacts.
Refer to pages 17-22 for our United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals.Social contribution
Throughout 2021, we invested globally A$20.3 million in 
communities through strategic partnerships, the Woodside 
Development Fund, our philanthropy program and the value 
of time our employees spent volunteering.
This was in addition to the leveraged A$15.4 million 
contributed through our joint venture partners and  
other co-funded initiatives we are involved in or our 
employees’ support.
Implementation of the new 2021–2025 Social Contribution 
Strategy commenced during the year with a focus on 
improving knowledge outcomes relating to the environment 
and climate resilience. Three new partnerships were 
established with BirdLife Australia in the Exmouth Gulf, 
Badgebup Aboriginal Corporation in the South West of 
Western Australia and Wetlands International Afrique  
in the Saloum Delta, Senegal.Refer to page 118 of this report for our Business  
for Societal Impact verification statement.TOTAL SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION SPEND GLOBALLY
TOTAL SOCIAL  
CONTRIBUTION 
SPEND 
GLOBALLY
A$20.3
MILLIONWOODSIDE DEVELOPMENT FUND
A$1.4 MILLION
Focused on improving outcomes for  
children from birth to eight years 
through sector capability, advocacy and 
trialling collaboration between multiple 
organisations to increase impactVOLUNTEERING
A$2.7 MILLION
More than 1,700 of our employees 
participated in a record 14,700 hours 
of corporate volunteering during 2021STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS
A$15.4 MILLION
Established across communities where 
Woodside has both a presence and 
impact, these seek to build the capacity 
and capability of local organisationsPHILANTHROPY
A$800 THOUSAND
Provided through small grants in our 
regional locations and donations
48 Sustainable Development Report 20211 Surveyed community partner organisations included those from Woodside’s corporate portfolio, accounting for more than a quarter of our total social contribution spend in 2021.
2 Subsequent to the period, on 27 January 2022, Woodside decided to withdraw from its interest in Myanmar. The existing 2019-2022 commitment will continue to be honoured by Woodside  
in 2022. As part of an existing 2019–2022 commitment,2  
via the Woodside Development Fund, we supported Plan 
International’s Early Childhood Care and Development 
Program which helps children in the Ayeyarwady Region 
of Myanmar to have the best possible start to life.
The program also empowers community volunteers 
to assist in the delivery of educational sessions and 
knowledge sharing through their roles as Parenting 
Educator Facilitators.
Following the completion of the Parenting Educator 
Facilitator training, a Ka Nyin Kone Village reported they 
have been able to build stronger connections and facilitate 
learning opportunities within their local community.
“ After becoming a community leader my social 
relationships with the mothers’ group have improved.  
We are now getting closer to each other and have  
a lot of fun through educational conversations.”
– Parenting Education Facilitator89%
of parents who 
participated in the 
program indicated  
they have increased 
their capacity to 
support their  
children's learningMore than 
100
parents reported 
increased confidence 
in their parenting skillsCASE STUDY: PLAN INTERNATIONAL - EARLY CHILDHOOD CARE AND DEVELOPMENTSince establishment of the Woodside Development Fund 
in 2014, there has been an aspiration to work with the 
Roebourne community on opportunities that improve early 
childhood outcomes. Since early 2021 we have been working 
together with community and the local 6718 Yandi for 
Change initiative to mature an opportunity that we believe 
meets the needs and aspirations of the community.
Building community partner capacity and capability is 
the underlying aim of our social investment approach. 
This capacity building extended to workshops hosted by 
Woodside for partners during the year aimed at increasing 
their understanding about aspects of the Woodside business, 
social impact measurement, establishing reconciliation 
action plans and the social media landscape.
Woodside’s leadership in corporate volunteering and our 
employees’ passion to help community was recognised 
in both local and national awards. Woodside was named 
Corporate Volunteer of the Year at the Volunteering WA 
Awards of Excellence and a finalist in Workplace Giving 
Australia's awards for Best Workplace Volunteering. 
In 2021, Woodside employees gave back to the community 
with a record contribution, volunteering more than 14,700 
hours, valued at A$2.7 million.Woodside partners with local Indigenous community 
organisations to deliver programs supporting their local 
communities. This included partnering with the Ngarluma 
Yindjibarndi Foundation Limited and Murujuga Aboriginal 
Corporation on a range of programs that provide training 
and employment opportunities, improve educational 
outcomes, support the transmission of cultural knowledge 
and create an environment in which people aspire and desire 
to live in Roebourne and its surrounds. 
Based on survey responses from our community partner 
organisations,1 as a result of partnering with Woodside:
• All advised that they had improved their capacity  
or were able to deliver new programs
• All advised they were able to reach more participants  
or spend more time with existing participants
• 71% advised that they were able to employ more staff  
or received additional support from volunteers
• More than half provided Woodside employees with the 
opportunity to volunteer within their organisations.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 49Since 1991, Woodside has been a committed 
supporter of our state’s talented young musicians. 
Our 30-year relationship with the Western Australian 
Youth Orchestras (WAYO) reached new heights 
with the addition of a new partnership, connecting 
WAYO with the West Australian Symphony Orchestra 
(WASO).
Through the partnership, WAYO musicians are 
provided with unique opportunities to learn from 
Western Australia’s professional state orchestra.
A complete program of interactive workshops 
and rehearsals culminating in annual side-by-side 
performances is helping develop our local talent, 
creating pathways for the next generation of gifted 
musicians.
“ Being able to sit in a professional setting has helped 
me realise what makes the difference between 
professional and amateur musicians and has really 
motivated me to become a professional!” 
– WAYO musician and program participantCASE STUDY: WESTERN AUSTRALIAN YOUTH 
ORCHESTRAS AND WEST AUSTRALIAN 
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
Woodside’s partnership with the Ngarluma 
Yindjibarndi Foundation Ltd through the North West 
Shelf Project includes support for the delivery of the 
Warrgamugardi Yirdiyabura Program.
The WY Program provides training and education 
opportunities for local people in Roebourne to gain 
accreditation in an area of their choice and provide  
a pathway to permanent employment.
In 2021, 35 people in Roebourne took part in the 
program, including Charlotte who is undertaking  
a Certificate III in Business Administration.
“ The WY program has helped me learn new skills.  
I feel more confident now. I feel like I can go to any 
job and have a chance. It makes me feel proud,  
and it makes my family proud.” 
–  Charlotte, Warrgamugardi Yirdiyabura  
Program participantCASE STUDY: WARRGAMUGARDI YIRDIYABURA 
PROGRAM
155
Roebourne people have 
been supported through 
the Warrgamugardi 
Yirdiyabura program  
since 1998100%
of current program 
participants are 
completing Gaining 
Access to Training and 
Employment training, 
enabling further 
education opportunities
 
Warrgamugardi 
Yirdiyabura Program 
participant – Roebourne, 
Western Australia.
 
Western Australian Youth 
Orchestra member at program 
rehearsal – Perth Concert Hall, 
Western Australia. 
100%
WAYO and WASO 
program participants 
developed new skills or 
improved existing skills85%
of WAYO program 
participants developed 
valuable professional 
connections
50 Sustainable Development Report 202195%
of Woodside employees 
that participated in 
volunteering at PICYS 
reported a better 
understanding of others 
and increased empathy92%
of surveyed Woodside 
employees reported a 
greater awareness of 
wider social issues after 
volunteering in 2021Volunteering plays an integral role in the way 
Woodside gives back to the communities in which  
we operate. In 2021 Woodside employees volunteered 
a record 14,700 hours across 83 organisations.
Perth Inner City Youth Service was one of the many 
not-for-profit organisations Woodside employees 
assisted throughout the year. The service helps 
to improve the quality of life of Perth’s youth 
experiencing homelessness.
Thirteen Woodside employees spent time getting to 
know the young people at the centre while assisting 
with gardening activities at the organisation’s office.
“ The Woodside people were excellent. They were  
willing to do preparation work and reflect on 
themselves as much as learn about contemporary 
issues young people experience, such as 
homelessness, mental health challenges and 
discrimination and stigma related to being LGBTIQA+.  
–  Andrew, Perth Inner City Youth Service  
Executive Officer
 
Woodside volunteers at Perth Inner City Youth Service. CASE STUDY: PERTH INNER CITY YOUTH SERVICE
Commitment to reconciliation
This is the first year of Woodside's Stretch 2021–2025 
Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), with the first report to be 
released in Q2 2022. It represents a continuation of our efforts 
towards reconciliation beyond meeting legislative or regulatory 
requirements and a deliberate shift away from measuring 
activities in favour of longer-term impactful outcomes.
Development of the 2021–2025 RAP has been the most 
collaborative of our four RAPs to date. It is the result 
of extensive engagement with Traditional Owners and 
Custodians in Perth and the Pilbara to determine key 
objectives under the four pillars of Stronger Communities, 
Respect for Culture and Heritage, Capability and Capacity 
and Economic Participation. Under the RAP and throughout 
our business, Woodside has committed to partnering with 
Indigenous communities and empowering Indigenous 
voices to enable stronger economic, social and cultural 
outcomes. This includes supporting protection, recognition 
and respect for Indigenous Australian cultures and heritage; 
supporting Indigenous Australian corporate governance, 
leadership development and education initiatives to increase 
Indigenous Australian capability and capacity; and increasing 
the economic benefit and return to Indigenous people 
and communities arising from Woodside business activity, 
investments and employment.An improvement identified in the design process was the need 
for commitments and the tracking of outcomes to be owned 
and delivered by everyone at Woodside. Implementation has 
focused on the visibility and accessibility of the RAP to ensure 
all divisions, functions, teams and employees understand 
their accountability for driving outcomes. This included 
numerous briefing sessions, including for senior leadership 
teams; development of communications materials, such as 
team discussion guides to support implementation at the 
team level; and creation of an internal intranet site to facilitate 
access to RAP and related supporting materials. 
 
Members of Woodside's 
Reconciliation Community. 
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 51Supporting local capability
Woodside continues to support programs in communities 
where we are active that build the capacity and capability of 
our communities to participate in employment opportunities 
and our supply chain.
In Karratha, Woodside together with other resource 
companies and the Karratha and Districts Chamber of 
Commerce and Industry (KDCCI) continues to support 
the Grow Local Partnership. The program supports local 
business capability development and enables enhanced local 
participation in our current operations and future growth 
projects. Our partnership with KDCCI also includes support 
for an Indigenous business capability development program 
that provides specific content to support local Indigenous 
businesses in Karratha. 
Woodside is committed to maximising contracting 
opportunities for Indigenous businesses. In early 2021 
Woodside co-hosted a follow up forum with Ngarluma 
Yindjibarndi Foundation Limited in Roebourne that brought 
together our major contractors, contracting division 
representatives and local Aboriginal businesses from  
the Roebourne region to discuss opportunities to  
maximise outcomes. 
By working closely with local and state governments as well 
as the Exmouth Chamber of Commerce and Industry the 
Exmouth Business Accelerator Program continued to deliver 
workshops and training that supports local business viability 
and development and increases employment opportunities 
in Exmouth. In surveys of participants in the program, over 
94% of respondents believe Woodside’s sponsorship of the 
Exmouth Business Accelerator program has had a positive 
impact on the local Exmouth business community. In Senegal, Woodside and the Rufisque Offshore, Sangomar 
Offshore and Sangomar Deep Offshore (RSSD) Joint Venture 
are supporting Senegal’s National Institute of Oil and 
Gas (INPG) to achieve its strategy to develop a centre of 
excellence at a national level in terms of specialised training 
of engineers, technicians and operators in oil and gas trades. 
The centre of excellence is planned to take a leadership role 
in the administration of the Senegalese oil and gas industry, 
as well as promote educational and technological research 
and strengthen the capacity of relevant local stakeholders 
to improve the management of oil and gas resources in 
Senegal. In support of the strategy Woodside, on behalf 
of the RSSD Joint Venture, signed a non-binding letter 
of intent that sets out the basis on which Woodside will 
cooperate with INPG to deliver the funding program for the 
implementation of INPG’s strategy.
Woodside has oil spill response equipment 
commissioned and response ready at the Senegal 
supply base. In 2021 our hydrocarbon spill adviser led 
several activities in country to enhance local oil spill 
response awareness and commissioned the necessary 
equipment and supplies. A three day training course 
was completed by 35 nominated personnel from local 
government agencies and affiliated organisations. 
This involved exercises with oil spill equipment and 
classroom training. Our local contractor will continue 
this learning by sending Dakar-based first responders 
to France for further training at a world renowned oil 
spill response facility to further bolster capability.CASE STUDY: BUILDING IN-COUNTRY OIL SPILL 
RESPONSE CAPABILITY 
Refer to page 91-95 for further information about 
Major incident preparedness.
52 Sustainable Development Report 2021PEOPLE AND CULTURE
To achieve Woodside's strategy of developing a low-cost, lower-carbon and 
diversified portfolio, our people strategy has required transformational change. 
This has been demonstrated through our new ways of building diverse capability, 
embracing cultural change and shaping clear leadership pathways, all of which 
will result in delivering optimised performance.
Our approach
Woodside recognise that we have a highly capable 
workforce who we continue to develop and provide growth 
opportunities to. In addition to this we require new and 
evolving skills which may not currently exist within our 
workforce. This required us to attract people from outside  
of the oil and gas sector, whose expertise and knowledge  
is expected to complement our existing capability.  
This will continue to be an area of focus for us. Further we 
are adapting our work structures and practices to challenge 
how we deliver solutions in the changing environment.  
This has been demonstrated through simplification of 
processes, increased use of digital capability and technology 
to unlock human capital and adopting agile processes to 
problem solve and empower teams.
The corporate strategy is underpinned by the Woodside 
Compass which was refreshed in 2021, recognising our 
need for change. The language better reflects the culture 
we are building, which embraces the courage to speak up, 
learning from our mistakes and holding ourselves to account 
to achieve our goals. It also reiterates our focus areas; to 
make every dollar count, deliver a lower-carbon future and 
embrace technology to successfully deliver on our goals. Our performance
2021 has seen significant progress in relation to our focus 
on people and culture. The launch of the Inclusion and 
Diversity strategy and new five-year RAP set out goals. 
These goals position the business well to achieve a more 
inclusive environment, where differences are recognised 
and celebrated, and our workforce continues to engage in 
meaningful activities to drive our reconciliation agenda. 
Importantly, our keen focus on ensuring we role-model 
inclusive behaviours resulted in 905 employees participating 
in the Working Better Together – Respectful Behaviours 
immersive training program in 2021. This will remain an 
ongoing focus.
The launch of the Navigator Leadership Development 
Program sees a step-change in how we approach leadership 
development at all stages of an employee’s career at 
Woodside. Whether an informal or executive leader, there is 
a common structure to the development pathway, building 
skills, application, and preparation for future progression. »Launched the 2021–2025 Inclusion and Diversity 
strategy which focuses on continuing to build an 
inclusive workplace culture, growing leadership 
capability, and driving diverse representation at 
all levels
 »Launched the new Navigator Leadership 
Development Program, which combines 
an immersion program with ongoing skills 
development in readiness for future progression
 »Introduced Indigenous cultural competency 
annual training for all employees2021 HIGHLIGHTS
 »Broader roll out of the Navigator Leadership 
Development Programs, including accessibility 
for international locations
 »Demonstrate deep understanding and 
communicate examples of role models for 
respectful behaviours across all teams and 
locations of the company
 »Maintain focus on gender and Indigenous 
employment and expand diversity focus  
in hiring to embrace all abilities2022 PRIORITIESSIGNIFICANT TOPIC
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 53Underpinning this work has been a refresh to the Woodside 
Compass. The Compass outlines Woodside’s mission and 
vision, focus areas and values which guide how we work.
These important activities in 2021 have created a strong 
platform from which we will continue to deliver positive 
cultural change across Woodside.
Working respectfully
Woodside is committed to a safe, inclusive, and respectful 
working environment and in November 2021, we launched 
Woodside’s Working Respectfully Policy. The expectation  
is that everyone working for Woodside, whether employees, 
contractors, or customers, treat others with respect.  
Our focus remains on creating an environment where ideas 
can be discussed and challenged in such a way that all 
parties feel respected.
The new policy supports our existing Inclusion and Diversity 
Policy, the Health, Safety and Environment Policy and our 
Code of Conduct. It sets expectations on behaviour, creating 
safe pathways for people to speak up, respond to allegations 
and take appropriate action. The policy is clear that 
sexual harassment, or any type of bullying, discrimination 
or victimisation has no place at Woodside and will be 
addressed accordingly.
A critical success factor to the understanding of these 
expectations is through education of our employees.  
The Working Better Together – Respectful Behaviours 
program addresses appropriate behaviours in the workplace 
and provides employees with the confidence and skills to 
intervene and speak up where required.Inclusion and diversity strategy
The new Inclusion and Diversity strategy 2021–2025 focuses 
on building the workplace culture and capability required 
to achieve diverse representation throughout Woodside. 
We remain focused on furthering an inclusive culture with a 
values-based approach to ensure we maintain an engaged 
and enabled workforce. We are also cognisant of the value of 
inclusion and diversity in all levels of our business and value 
the varied perspectives and experiences of all our people. 
This includes the composition of our Board, which represents 
diversity in gender, cultural backgrounds and experience.
Our previous priorities of gender equality, Indigenous 
representation in the workforce and creating an environment 
where our people feel safe to be who they are remain key 
to our strategy. Ensuring we create a climate of trust and 
belonging with our LGBTI+ employees has remained a focus 
and 2021 saw 10 employees participate in the six-month 
Authentic LGBTI+ Leaders Program which was run for the 
second consecutive year. 
In 2021, we expanded our focus to recognise people with 
diverse ancestry, ethnicity and faiths through the creation of 
the Cultural and Linguistic Diversity (CALD) network group. 
 
Woodside employees at Mia Yellagonga.
54 Sustainable Development Report 2021We established the Advocates for Different Abilities  
and Personal Traits (ADAPT) network and completed  
a benchmarking review of the level of support currently 
provided to employees with disabilities and neurodiverse 
employees. This will direct our focus in 2022 to  
improve inclusion.
To demonstrate our keen intent on creating an inclusive  
work environment, Woodside hosted an inclusion event  
at Mia Yellagonga in November 2021. 
This extended further to ensure engagement in Karratha, 
our offshore facilities and across our international locations. 
The event included a discussion with Woodside’s CEO 
who shared stories from her own career and her vision for inclusion. An Inclusion Fair enabled employees to 
engage with the multiple Woodside diversity networks and 
information was provided about training and resources to 
help our people further build their inclusion and diversity IQ.
The impact of COVID-19 has required Woodside to think 
differently about how, where and when people perform their 
work. A new approach to flexible working was launched in 
April 2021. This includes an option to work from home for 
half of regular working hours and to have flexible start and 
end times outside of the new core hours. Results from our 
Inclusive Workplace Survey conducted in Q4 2021 found that 
78% of employees are utilising these options.
EXPAND  
OUR FOCUSEMBED  
OUR PRIORITIESOUR BEHAVIOURSEDUCATION AND CAPABILITY VISIBLE ACTION DECISION-MAKING
DIVERSITY OF THOUGHTINCLUSIVE LEADERSHIPINCLUSION AND DIVERSITY STRATEGY
DRIVES INCLUSION FOR ALL
WORKING FLEXIBLY
Cultural background 
and faithGender  
equality
Local people 
globallyIndigenous 
Australians
Enable all  
abilitiesGender identity and 
sexual orientationOur unique backgrounds, knowledge and experience make us better together
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 55Indigenous participation
In 2020, we reported overall representation of Indigenous 
Australians in the workforce as 3.9%. When including 
all trainees, apprentices and scholarship students, that 
figure increases to 5.2%. While we were unable to increase 
representation during 2021, we have been able to maintain 
an entire workforce representation of 5.2%. Indigenous 
Australian representation in leadership roles increased from 
0.7% to 0.8% while representation in mid-career and senior 
roles fell from 0.7% to 0.6%. Turnover of our Indigenous 
employees remains higher than overall turnover and a 
revised approach is under review.
However, there has been positive hiring indicators with 
4.6% of new experienced hires identifying as Indigenous 
Australians, compared to a target of 2%. Our tertiary pathway 
programs have achieved 7% of the new graduate cohort and 
12% of the 2021–2022 Summer Vacation Program participants 
identifying as Indigenous Australians. We have also seen 
70.4% of our new externally hired apprentices and trainees in 
2021 identifying as Indigenous Australians, and 27.8% of those 
converting from apprenticeship or traineeship to Woodside 
employment also identifying as Indigenous.1
Ongoing engagement with our Indigenous collegiate has 
identified the need for improved education to our workforce 
on cultural competency. This is now being driven under 
Woodside’s new RAP requiring mandatory annual cultural 
training for all employees.Gender balance
Although there has been some positive movement in the 
representation of women during 2021, with an increase from 
32.1% in 2020, annual targets have not been achieved.  
Overall representation of women sits at 32.7%, below our 
annual 33.1% target. The number of females in leadership 
roles fell short of our 25.5% target at 25.2% although this 
was an increase from 24% in the previous year. Greater 
success has been achieved in our women in trades and 
technician roles at 9%, exceeding our annual target of 8%. 
A contributing factor to this was the successful recruitment 
campaign which resulted in three female Offshore Service 
Technicians being hired. 
While we celebrate the success of hiring women into our 
trades and technician roles, we recognise this is just the 
beginning. The actual female representation level remains low 
and there is more to do to create a more gender balanced 
environment. To ensure focus on this, a ‘Women in Operations 
Working Group’ was formed in May 2021, with the objective 
of driving increased recruitment, progression and retention of 
women in the operations workforce.
During 2021, 43% of our vacancies were filled by women. 
For the annual graduate intake, we achieved 51% female 
representation. The graduate development program 
continues to deliver gender parity with high quality, capable 
candidates of all genders. While we continue to attract 
women to Woodside, it is noted that the turnover rate of 
females remains consistently higher than for males and this 
remains an area of focus for us.
 
Woodside employees at Mia Yellagonga.
1 Non-tertiary pathway data is based on third party program information.
56 Sustainable Development Report 2021Women in Resources Awards 2021
The high calibre of female employees at Woodside has been 
recognised in 2021 through the Minerals Council of Australia 
National Women in Resources Awards. In November 2021, 
two employees were recognised for their contribution,  
skill and inspirational stories which raise awareness  
of the diverse careers available in the resource sector,  
and particularly at Woodside.
Alison van Lent, Commercialisation Manager, won the 
Women in Resources Technological Innovation Award, 
recognising her applying industry-leading innovative 
technology to improve safety and quality. Alison has guided 
the Operations and Projects teams to take advantage of 
Intelligent and Autonomous Systems, and in doing so has 
co-developed software which is now used to leverage robots 
on the Woodside assets.
Laura Allen, previously Process Owner and now Operations 
Team Leader at Pluto Onshore, was awarded the Outstanding 
Operator/Technician/Trade Woman in Resources Award. 
Having spent 17 years in the industry and approximately ten 
years of those working offshore, Laura often found herself 
to be the only woman on site and typically the youngest. 
Working in this environment has built Laura’s resilience and 
drive to inspire others to work in this sector. This is keenly 
demonstrated through her active participation in Woodside’s 
Gender Equality Matters diversity network group and her 
recruitment and mentorship of women within the resource 
sector, including mining and oil and gas in both onshore and 
offshore roles.
— 
Women in Resource Awards finalists: 
Yvette Manolas, General Manager Climate Solutions,  
Alison van Lent, Commercialisation Manager  
and Laura Allen, Operations Team Leader at Pluto Onshore.SHAMILA  
VIJAYAMANOHAR 
Australia’s 2021 Corporate Accountant of the  
Year in the Australian Accounting Awards.
In June 2021, Shamila Vijayamanohar was named 
Australia’s 2021 Corporate Accountant of the  
Year in the Australian Accounting Awards.  
The awards are currently in their eighth year,  
are independent of any professional accountancy 
body and aim to acknowledge and reward high-
achieving professionals. Shamila is currently a 
Senior Finance Analyst in the developments team 
focusing on Browse and Sangomar and she has 
worked across various business units  
at Woodside.
NAOMI ELBROW
Joint winner of the 2021 Department of Mines, 
Industry Regulation and Safety (DMIRS) safety 
and health representative of the year. Naomi’s 
proactive participation and commitment 
to supporting and elevating Health, Safety 
and Environment issues is an example of the 
significant safety contribution of our Health, 
Safety and Environment Representatives (HSER).
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 57 
Woodside employees at Mia Yellagonga.Scholarships and Future  
Pathways Programs
The Woodside Scholarship program provides financial 
support for students studying at university, coupled with 
annual paid work experience and early consideration to our 
Graduate Program. The program targets roles with specialist 
skills which are in high demand and follows a full recruitment 
process before awarding the scholarships. 
In 2021, we had 20 students in the program, 17 of whom are 
undertaking the 12-week summer vacation program and one 
who will be undertaking a shorter winter program. Two of 
the long-term university scholarships were awarded to local 
people in Karratha. Of these 20 students, 60% are female 
and 40% Indigenous. Two of the students are graduating 
this year and have already been confirmed onto the 2022 
Woodside Graduate Development Program.
The ‘Better Future Pathways Program’ was launched in 2021.  
This program allows us to reach students early in their 
degree, in the first or second year. Engaging with 
students earlier and having them undertake the summer 
vacation program builds early connection with Woodside 
and provides an additional pathway to the Graduate 
Development Program when they have completed  
their studies.
Karratha workforce
Of our local Pilbara-based apprentices and trainees,  
8% identified as Traditional Owners and Custodians of the 
areas where we are active, 36% Indigenous Australians and 
42% females. We had 34 apprentices and trainees who 
successfully converted to permanent Woodside employment 
during 2021.1 This includes three existing employees who 
undertook apprenticeship programs to expand their skills. 
Woodside’s commitment to employment of Indigenous 
people in the Pilbara and Traditional Owners and Custodians 
was formalised in the 2021–2025 Reconciliation Action Plan 
with set targets.The second highest number of Woodside employees ever, 
14, completed a Jawun six-week secondment in 2021. 
Jawun have recently announced they are expanding to the 
Pilbara region in 2022, and we are proud to be a founding 
partner which includes the opportunity to place Woodside 
secondees to help support capacity and capability building 
to enable improved local content outcomes. 
International approach
Part of our production license in each country contains a 
local content requirement. We are proud to contribute to 
the communities in which we operate, and part of that is 
through engaging a local workforce and building capability 
in-country. 
Specific roles for locals are identified, advertised and sourced 
from in-country. In 2021 in Senegal, we directly hired 11 local 
employees and 10 third party contractors for roles including 
Finance, People and Global Capability, Logistics and Office 
Administration. 
Local employment agencies have been engaged to help 
source talent. Where appropriate, we identify pathway 
programs and opportunities to develop competency 
in-country. In Senegal we have three University (Institut 
National Du Pétrole et du Gaz or INPG) students working as 
interns in our Drilling and Subsea divisions. We are looking 
to expand this to the Reservoir Management part of the 
business as we move closer to operations.
We operate a professional development program in 
Australia for students from countries in which we operate 
for them to gain practical experience that they can take 
back to their home country at the completion of their 
studies. Two students joined us in 2021 further to the six 
students who joined us in 2020 from Timor-Leste and 
Myanmar. Intake numbers in 2021 were reduced due to the 
impact of COVID-19. 
1 Non-tertiary pathway data is based on third party program information.
58 Sustainable Development Report 2021
Leadership and development
Leadership development is identified as a key enabler for 
our corporate strategy. A dedicated team have worked 
in partnership with the Australian Graduate School of 
Management to progress the concept for the new Navigator 
Leadership Development Program through design to 
implementation in Q4 2021.
The Navigator Leadership Development Program is built 
around five distinct phases, aligned to where someone is 
in relation to their leadership development. Each phase 
encompasses an immersive learning experience with 
application of skills before providing an opportunity to 
extend those skills in preparation of the next step in the 
leadership journey.
To deliver on our inclusion and diversity goals, a phased 
curriculum on inclusive leadership has been incorporated 
into all phases of the Navigator program. Each phase 
has a tailored approach, from building appreciation for 
the business case for inclusion, developing capability to 
demonstrate inclusive behaviours to completing an inclusive 
leadership assessment and group coaching. This ensures we 
maintain focus on the key skills required in our workforce to 
drive our culture.The Navigator program provides holistic leadership 
development from strengthening and growing skills, 
communicating expectations, and enabling leaders to deliver 
better business outcomes. The concept provides a shift in 
focus to 'license to lead'  requiring commitment from all parts 
of the business.
The Navigator program name was chosen due to its 
connection to our well-established and embedded Woodside 
Compass as well as providing the power to promote 
curiosity, tell a story and create an enduring connection.
Since the launch in October 2021, 13 programs across three 
phases have been delivered in Perth with 267 participants. 
A further 126 people have commenced masterclasses and 
group coaching at phases 4 and 5. All programs have 
involved our senior leaders giving their time to attend 
and connect with participants to set the scene for the 
development focus ahead. All previous leadership programs 
continued to run while Navigator program was developed 
in 2021. These saw more than 950 employees attend and 
engage in developing their leadership skills.NAVIGATOR LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PHASE I
INDIVIDUAL 
CONTRIBUTIONS
Introduce the  
Woodside way
FOR 
Foundational 
leadership principles 
AND 
Non-managers 
with core discipline 
expertiseTEAM  
LEADS
Skill development  
and practice
FOR 
Leaders of individual 
contributors and teams 
AND 
Senior discipline 
professionalsPHASE 2
MANAGERS
Leading and enabling
FOR 
Leaders of leaders  
AND 
Discipline authoritiesPHASE 3
SENIOR 
MANAGERS
Integrating and aligning
FOR 
Leaders of the business 
activity 
AND 
Non-managers 
with core discipline 
expertisePHASE 4
EXECUTIVE
Strategic and visionary
FOR 
Leaders of corporate 
strategy 
AND 
Global discipline 
expertsPHASE 5
INFORMAL LEADERS FRONTLINE LEADERS FUNCTIONAL LEADERS CORPORATE LEADERS
DELIVERS RESULTS COMMUNICATES OPENLY BUILDS RESILIENCE
MAXIMISES PERFORMANCE BUSINESS ACUMEN INSPIRES PEOPLE
LEADS WITH  
CONVICTIONDRIVES STRATEGIC 
ALLIANCESTHINKS LONG-TERM  
AND GLOBALLYBUSINESS LEADERS
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 59
Feedback culture
To support changes to our approach to performance 
management in 2020 and 2021, Woodside leaders have 
focused on further improving the feedback culture. This has 
involved a significant effort to roll out a simple and consistent 
framework across the whole organisation, making it safe and 
possible to provide constructive feedback across all levels of 
the organisation.
A dedicated project team kicked off training to leaders 
in January 2021, followed with a cascade from leaders to 
their teams in all geographic locations. This collaborative 
approach to sharing the feedback message not only 
demonstrates an openness for all to give and receive 
feedback but has resulted in almost 2,700 employees across 
all locations having attended at a training session this year.
Engagement and enablement
For many years, Woodside has undertaken a whole of 
company Engagement and Enablement Survey which 
is conducted every two years. The results allow us to 
understand the sentiment of our workforce and intent 
to remain with the company. While the survey is a useful 
measure and drives tailored workstreams to improve overall 
engagement and enablement, a more effective approach 
to measuring feedback and addressing concerns has 
been implemented in 2021. A new pulse survey approach 
commenced focused on measuring culture along with a 
second survey to understand levels of inclusion. The results 
of these surveys have formed the baseline from which we 
will focus work activities in the future. The pulse survey 
approach demonstrates our true intent to listen and learn 
from our workforce and embed the desired culture at 
Woodside. As outlined in our inclusion and diversity  
strategy on page 54. 
60 
Sustainable Development Report 2021Compass values
The updated Woodside strategy provided an opportunity 
to refresh the language in our longstanding Woodside 
Compass. The Compass is an overarching guide that is 
used by Woodside employees, contractors and external 
stakeholders and has served us well over almost a decade.
With broad engagement across the organisation and a 
dedicated cross-organisational working group, a revised 
version with redefined focus areas and two new values  
were launched in July 2021.
The renewed Compass focuses attention on delivering 
improved business outcomes through enabled teams,  
low-cost, lower-carbon, and technology. The approach  
by which we achieve this has grown with recognition that 
transparency and communication is integral to building trust 
with our stakeholders, contractors, and employees. A safe 
and trusting environment enables us to work with empathy 
and a growth mindset to deliver effective outcomes.There are two new values which have been included in the 
Compass: Ownership and Courage. We recognise that these 
are to be delivered through our trusted and transparent 
approach. These reflect the change in behaviours required 
to drive organisational effectiveness and deliver our 
business priorities to reach our strategic goals. The value of 
Ownership is underpinned by courage, having the confidence 
to back yourself, learn from mistakes and act as one team.  
Courageous behaviours include speaking up, acting 
decisively, and embracing change. 
The implemented changes add to our existing and ongoing 
critical behaviours which remain essential in our delivery, 
namely safety, risk, compliance, and inclusion.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 612021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Number of staff by gender
Male 2,525 2,546 2,676 2,537 2,531
Female 1,239 1,231 1,286 1,125 1,066
Total 3,764 3,777 3,962 3,662 3,597
Employment contract (number of staff by employment type and by gender)2
Permanent – Male 2,302 2,315 NPR* NPR* NPR*
Permanent – Female 827 819 NPR* NPR* NPR*
Permanent total 3,129 3,134 3,276 3,112 3,068
Fixed term – Male 168 179 NPR* NPR* NPR*
Fixed term – Female 150 155 NPR* NPR* NPR*
Fixed term total 318 334 337 237 253
Part-time – Male 55 52 NPR* NPR* NPR*
Part-time – Female 262 257 NPR* NPR* NPR*
Part-time total 317 309 349 313 276
Total 3,764 3,777 3,962 3,662 3,597
Number of staff by employment category3
Administration – Male 117 105 107 109 105
Administration – Female 146 145 158 149 146
Technical – Male 986 1,021 1,040 992 1,004
Technical – Female 453 470 516 453 453
Supervisory/Professional – Male 935 900 978 900 878
Supervisory/Professional – Female 486 464 465 395 351
Middle Management – Male 462 486 515 502 509
Middle Management – Female 143 140 136 117 105
Senior Management – Male 25 34 36 34 35
Senior Management – Female 11 12 11 11 11
Total 3,764 3,777 3,962 3,662 3,597
Board Members – Male4 7 7 7 7 8
Board Members – Female4 4 3 3 3 3
Employees in Graduate Program (numbers)
Male – employees 154 144 143 139 154
Female – employees 168 151 150 143 136
Total 322 295 293 282 290
Employment region (number of staff by region)
Australia 3,660 3,705 3,874 3,567 3,537
Africa and Middle East 35 9 8 5 4
Asia 48 49 23 68 34
Europe 8 7 42 17 16
USA and Canada 13 7 15 5 6
Total 3,764 3,777 3,962 3,662 3,597
Total number of contractors 267 235 337 241 185PEOPLE1
62 
Sustainable Development Report 20212021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Woodside staff age distribution (years)
≤30 Male 368 376 386 356 350
≤30 Female 349 363 388 333 319
31–50 Male 1,485 1,503 1,547 1,487 1,518
31–50 Female 757 748 764 665 636
51+ Male 672 667 743 694 663
51+ Female 133 120 134 127 111
Total 3,764 3,777 3,962 3,662 3,597
Breakdown of employees per category according to Indigenous workforce (number)
Employees 156 144 140 130 117
Pathways 44 32 47 37 41
Total 200 176 189 167 158
Traineeship and apprenticeship program 
(number)118 135 135 107 109
Employee turnover (number)
Male – employees 147 288 74 101 80
Female – employees 101 136 44 41 50
Total 248 424 118 142 130
Voluntary turnover (number) 173 112 112 123 112
Voluntary turnover (percentage) 4.5 2.9 3.0 3.5 3.2
Turnover by region (number)
Australia 247 418 117 137 128
Africa and Middle East 0 0 0 0 0
Asia 1 1 0 3 0
Europe 0 4 1 2 1
USA and Canada 0 1 0 0 1
Total 248 424 118 142 130
Returning from parental leave (percentage) 99 99 97 97 95
Employee turnover by age group (number)
≤30 (years) 55 32 27 23 19
31–50 (years) 113 200 50 66 70
51+ (years) 80 192 41 53 41
Total 248 424 118 142 130
Total hours of training by gender
Male – employees 64,170 57,647 70,626 64,105 70,050
Female – employees 26,331 21,941 33,742 25,742 26,325
Total 90,501 79,588 104,368 89,847 96,375
Average per person hours of training by gender
Male 25 23 26 25 28
Female 21 18 26 23 25
Total 24 21 26 25 27continued
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 632021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Average per person hours of training by gender – professional/management
Male 19 17 20 22 25
Female 20 17 23 22 24
Total 20 17 21 22 25
Total hours of training by employee type
Permanent 80,308 70,364 91,000 81,041 86,928
Fixed term 5,692 5,832 7,533 4,499 5,350
Part-time 4,501 3,392 5,835 4,307 4,097
Total 90,501 79,589 104,368 89,847 96,375
Average per person hours of training by employee type
Permanent 26 22 28 26 28
Fixed term 18 17 22 19 21
Part-time 14 11 17 14 15
Total 24 21 26 25 27
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender (%)5
Male 96 94 98 96 97
Female 97 95 95 93 95
Total 97 95 97 95 97
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by employee type (%)6
Permanent  97 NPR* NPR* NPR* NPR*
Fixed term 97 NPR* NPR* NPR* NPR*
Part-time 96 NPR* NPR* NPR* NPR*
Total 97 NPR* NPR* NPR* NPR*
1 Vacation students are included in relevant metrics, where appropriate.
2 Employment contract now includes gender to align with GRI 102-8.
3 Woodside determines employment category based on job level. 
4 Diversity categories have been provided where appropriate. However, some information has not been included due to privacy reasons. 
5 Includes performance review completed for permanent and fixed term employees who have worked at Woodside for more than 3 months during the period. The performance 
review completion rate metric excludes vacation students and cadets.
6 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by employee type align with GRI 405-3.
* NPR refers to Not Previously Reported
 
Woodside employees at 
the Karratha Gas Plant. continued
64 Sustainable Development Report 2021
SUPPLY CHAIN  AND LOCAL CONTENT
Woodside continues to work in partnership with our suppliers across the 
supply chain to continuously improve our approach, streamline our processes 
to make opportunities more accessible and deliver sustainable opportunities 
to our communities.
Our approach
We recognise local content contracting outcomes are 
delivered via direct and indirect modes of contracting.  
Our stakeholders have advised of the requirement to expand 
and simplify the pathways for entry into our supply chain, 
and the equal importance of strengthening outcomes 
delivered through our Tier 1 vendors. We recognise the need to further develop our local content 
reporting mechanisms to ensure we understand the impact 
we are having in our local communities and are currently 
reviewing existing portals to see how we can best capture 
this information. Our approach to local content and supply 
chain supports the delivery of the Sustainable Communities 
Policy, Human Rights Policy, Indigenous Communities Policy 
and our commitment to Indigenous reconciliation. »Actively engaged with local stakeholders 
through dedicated forums to understand 
challenges and opportunities throughout  
our supply chain
 »Implemented improvements to local content 
processes which facilitated deeper engagement 
with the senior executive to drive local content 
outcomes
 »Completed a review of contestable spend in 
Karratha, identifying a pipeline of sustainable 
future opportunities. This is now being extended 
to all our Australian operations to develop a  
2-5 year plan2021 HIGHLIGHTS
 »Deliver localised economic outcomes across our 
international asset portfolio to improve our local 
content performance
 »Adjust processes and procedures to meet 
evolving legislation in our local and international 
operating locations
 »Leverage the portfolio of emerging growth 
projects to identify targeted opportunities 
to build sustainable outcomes that can be 
incubated through project development2022 PRIORITIESIMPORTANT TOPIC
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 65
Our performance
In 2021, Woodside spent more than A$5.5 billion globally  
on goods and services, with 62% (A$3.5 billion) of spend 
with Australian-based suppliers. The 2021 spend was 
comparable with that of 2020. Global spend has increased  
to reflect the number of global projects now underway. 
Spend in Australia has slightly decreased due to a significant 
focus on cost reduction and the ongoing impact of the 
global pandemic. 
Divisional level metrics were set for the first time in 2021, 
aimed at providing greater internal visibility and focus 
regarding local content performance. Our inability to meet 
some of the internal targets in 2021 has led to a concerted 
effort to identify a forward-looking pipeline of sustainable 
procurement outcomes. Acknowledging the feedback 
from local stakeholders regarding visibility of contracting 
opportunities, we increased advertisements of scopes of 
work outside of our legislative requirements. This activity 
was in addition to the information available in our Forward 
Work Plans. 
Australian local content 
To create a steady and sustainable demand profile for 
Traditional Owners and Custodians and regional Karratha 
businesses, and to support Woodside achieving its  
2021–2025 Reconciliation Action Plan targets, a review of 
Karratha contestable spend was undertaken in Q1 2021. 
This review provided a basis to identify work scope carve-
outs that underpin a pipeline of contracting opportunities 
expected to deliver material and sustainable benefits to 
Traditional Owners and Custodians and regional Karratha 
businesses in 2022 and beyond. The intent is to grow and 
broaden the work scopes over time to provide upskilling 
opportunities to the local workforce. The success of this 
review has led to a broader review of contestable spend 
across the organisation.Scarborough and Pluto Train 2 will provide a significant 
contribution to the Australian economy across the life of the 
project. The majority of direct opportunities for Pluto Train 2 
will be realised in Western Australia, with firm commitments 
in place will contractors to deliver skills development 
and training, employment, contracting and Indigenous 
participation opportunities during the four-year construction 
phase. The projects will continue to support local operations 
and communities for decades to come. 
Senegal local content
Woodside and key contractors in Senegal continue to 
actively support local content development while clarifying 
aspects of the developing local content legislation. 
Consultation is ongoing with the appointed Technical 
Secretariat of the National Committee for the monitoring 
of local content to support compliance and seek timely 
approvals and exemptions so that any schedule impact on 
the Sangomar Field Development Phase 1 would be limited. 
Woodside continues to progress its local content strategy 
and framework including continuous engagement with the 
Senegalese Government.
Supporting small business
The Australian Government Payment Times Reporting 
Regulator published the first Payment Times Reporting 
Scheme reports on its public register in November 2021. 
Woodside has actively supported the Australian  
Government Payment Times Reporting Scheme (PTRS)  
to improve payment times for Australian small businesses. 
We submitted our first PTRS report in September 2021. 
By Q2 2022 we will reduce payment times for suppliers to 
Woodside’s Australian-based operations and projects to 
20 business days, supporting prompt payment of suppliers 
and compliance with the new legislative requirements in the 
Building and Construction Industry (Security of Payment) 
Act 2021 (WA).
62%
Australia 12%
Japan 8%
United Kingdom 5%
Senegal GLOBAL SPEND BY COUNTRY
66 Sustainable Development Report 2021In 2021, Woodside issued a tender for Onshore 
Facilities Management Services. Some 23 Karratha 
businesses were identified, with some preferring 
direct contracting opportunities and others a 
subcontracting model. For those wanting to be 
considered as a subcontractor, their details were 
passed on to the potential direct bidders to maximise 
their opportunities to be awarded scopes of work.
Following feedback received from the 2021 Pilbara 
Summit, an attempt was made to carve out a number 
of smaller scopes to assist local businesses in their 
ability to tender. Briefings and training sessions 
were provided to assist suppliers in the compilation 
of tender packages along with an overview of the 
Industry Capability Network (ICN) advertising platform. 
Additionally, an external generic provider, Wirra Hub, 
were available to support all tenderers if needed.  
This support was free for all Indigenous businesses. 
Two direct awards were made to two separate 
Indigenous businesses for smaller scopes of work 
for bike maintenance, laundry and courier services. 
Feedback from tenderers stated that the remaining 
scope packages were still too large which, combined 
with economic competition and competing priorities, 
made it challenging to tender with Woodside.  
Moving forward, we continue to work on achieving 
indirect outcomes for local and Indigenous businesses.CASE STUDY: ONSHORE FACILITIES 
MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
 
Woodside employee at Pluto LNG.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 67
HUMAN RIGHTS
Woodside continues to mature its approach to respect human rights and manage 
modern slavery risks across our value chain.IMPORTANT TOPIC
 »Published our first Modern Slavery Statement
 »Completed a salient human rights impact 
assessment across Woodside’s value chain
 »Commenced a pilot audit program by 
conducting two independent supplier modern 
slavery assessments2021 HIGHLIGHTS
 »Implement recommendations from the salient 
human rights impact assessment
 »Embed our process of managing human rights 
in the supply chain, including implementing 
training on modern slavery risk management
 »Expand our supplier audits and conducting  
on the ground audits in high-risk locations  
or supplier categories2022 PRIORITIES
Our approach
Our Human Rights Policy guides our approach to respecting 
the rights of our employees, the communities where we 
operate, and people in our supply chain in line with the  
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
In 2021, an internal audit was conducted on Woodside’s 
Human Rights Policy commitments. The audit identified 
actions to strengthen our human rights approach, including 
a formal assessment of the risk of modern slavery in our 
supply chain, which was completed late in the year. 
To embed an integrated management approach to human 
rights across the business we developed and implemented  
a new Human Rights Procedure.
Our Human Rights Procedure mandates that we conduct 
human rights diligence for our operated activities in 
countries considered to have high human rights risk every 
two years or when there is a significant change in our activity 
or the operating context. This country risk is determined 
through an annual review of all countries we have interests  
in through an analysis of independent data sources. 
Our Human Rights Working Group, comprising 
representatives from across the business, continued to meet 
monthly to mature our human rights risk mitigation and 
management approach. We also continued to collaborate with the Human Rights 
Resources and Energy Collaborative (formerly the Western 
Australian Modern Slavery Collaborative) and the IPIECA 
Human Rights Working Group. These engagements enabled 
us to contribute towards joint projects, engagements 
with civil society and academic stakeholders on human 
rights topics and better understand best practice through 
knowledge sharing.
Modern Slavery Statement 
Woodside’s Modern Slavery Statement 2021 will be 
submitted to the Australian Government in the first half  
of 2022, in line with the requirements of the Australian 
Modern Slavery Act 2018.
Human rights due diligence
Human rights due diligence was undertaken for new 
opportunities and partnerships being considered by  
the business during the year.
In 2021, an expert business and human rights advisory  
firm conducted a company-wide salient human rights  
risk assessment for Woodside. 
The views of key investor, academic and civil society 
stakeholders were sought to inform the assessment. 
68 Sustainable Development Report 2021Myanmar
We have watched the political unrest in Myanmar with 
concern since the declaration of the state of emergency in 
February 2021. Our offshore exploration activities have since 
ceased, and with no producing assets in country, we have 
reduced our presence. 
In late 2020, a specialist advisory organisation commenced  
a human rights assessment for our activities in Myanmar.  
In response to COVID-19 restrictions and the political unrest 
in country, the scope was amended to a remote assessment. 
The resulting report, delivered in early 2021, identified human 
rights risks associated with offshore exploration activities 
in the north and development activities in the south. The 
recommendations from the report have been considered for 
integration into our management approach should we resume 
activities in Myanmar. 
In 2021 we provided humanitarian assistance through 
the Myanmar Red Cross Society, to support the country’s 
COVID-19 Emergency Action Plan. 
In February 2021, we signed the Statement by Concerned 
Businesses Operating in Myanmar issued by the Myanmar 
Centre for Responsible Business and continue to work with 
industry partners and stakeholders to foster a business 
environment that respects human rights.
Subsequent to the period, on 27 January 2022, Woodside 
decided to withdraw from its interest in Myanmar. 
Managing our supply chain 
In line with our own policy commitment, we expect our 
suppliers to also respect human rights and not tolerate the 
occurrence of modern slavery. We help to ensure this by 
implementing a range of risk-based management control 
activities for all suppliers including: 
• Supplier Code of Business Conduct: sets out our 
expectations for suppliers in relation to human rights  
and modern slavery. All Woodside suppliers are required  
to actively agree to abide by the Code when a contact  
is awarded
• Contractual terms and conditions: Modern slavery 
provisions in our standard supplier terms and conditions 
prohibit suppliers and any of their subcontractors from 
engaging in modern slavery practices and provides 
Woodside with audit and termination rights
• Guideline on Worker Access to Identity Documents: 
prohibits our suppliers from withholding any identity 
documents from migrant workers. 
We assess supplier human rights related risks through our 
supply chain modern slavery risk management framework, 
which was introduced in 2018. The framework assesses all new 
suppliers based on location, nature of the work and specificity 
to the oil and gas industry. 
This risk management framework and associated controls 
were reviewed in late 2021 by a consultant with human rights 
expertise to test its validity, noting significant global changes 
since its implementation. Any new suppliers assessed as having moderate to high risk 
are required to complete a human rights self-assessment 
questionnaire. Survey responses are assessed to identify 
risk areas and implement appropriate controls throughout 
the contracting life cycle. We also utilise a third party ESG 
reporting platform to identify if a potential supplier has 
previously been involved in any human rights incidents.  
To embed this approach into our business practices, we have 
developed a guideline to manage modern slavery risks across 
the contract life cycle, which will be implemented in early 
2022 and be supported by training. 
In late 2021, an expert consultant undertook our first modern 
slavery supplier assessments, auditing the contract controls 
of two high-risk suppliers based in Senegal. While the 
assessment did not find any instances of modern slavery,  
it found procedural issues which we will work with the audited 
suppliers to implement corrective action plans in 2022.  
We also collaborated with a Tier 1 supplier by shadowing the 
implementation of an independent human rights program 
at a shipyard fabrication site in China. The initial assessment 
conducted as part of the program identified some labour 
rights issues, particularly around excessive working hours and 
overtime. We are working with the Tier 1 supplier to address 
these issues. 
Managing security
Woodside has been an active member of the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) since  
2015. During 2021, there were no reported or suspected 
security related human rights incidents in connection with  
our activities. Woodside maintains a VPSHR framework, 
focused on risk assessment, training, management of 
arrangements with private security providers, and if 
applicable, arrangements with public security. 
Security risk is managed in a coordinated manner with site or 
project based Business Resilience Managers. No new country 
risk assessments were required during 2021, and existing 
VPSHR risk assessments have been aligned with overarching 
security risk assessments conducted for offices and facilities 
across Woodside. 
A Senegal VPSHR strategy has been developed and 
communicated to local stakeholders in Senegal, to ensure 
security-related human rights are managed as our Sangomar 
project activities increase. In Senegal, in accordance with local 
legislation, foreign vessels undertaking oil and gas activities are 
required to embark an unarmed navy officer (chief of mission) 
as part of the vessels operating authorisation who liaise with 
vessel command and other Senegalese authorities. Since mid-
2021, a chief of mission has been present aboard the Diamond 
Offshore’s Ocean BlackRhino drillship.
Key contracts, including those with private security providers, 
contain provisions with specific security obligations that 
include managing security arrangements consistent with the 
VPSHR. Woodside developed online training for VPSHR has 
been implemented in English for private security provider 
personnel, complementing their own training programs,  
and a French language version is under development. 
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 69OVERVIEW
GOVERNANCEHEALTH, SAFETY  AND WELLBEING
Woodside is committed to protecting the health and safety of our workforce  
and ensuring the ongoing integrity of our operations. 
Our approach
We engage all levels of our workforce to maintain a culture 
in which everybody is aware of their health and safety 
obligations and feels empowered to speak up and intervene 
on health and safety issues. This approach is guided by 
our Compass and Code of Conduct. Our Safety Culture 
Framework outlines the positive behaviours that promote a 
strong safety culture, as well as the negative behaviours that 
undermine our efforts, and is applicable to all employees 
and contractors at Woodside controlled worksites. Physical 
safety is well established in our safety culture and we are 
working to leverage Our Safety Culture Framework to embed 
psychological health and safety, including a zero-tolerance 
approach to sexual discrimination, bullying and harassment, 
in-line with our Working Respectfully Policy. To deliver safe and healthy workplaces we implement systems 
to identify, assess and control health and safety risks to as low 
as reasonably practicable (ALARP), complying with relevant 
laws and regulations and applying responsible standards 
where laws do not exist. 
Our Golden Safety Rules summarise mandatory requirements 
for managing our high-risk work activities as part of our safe 
work control process, to prevent high-consequence injuries 
and fatalities. These rules sets out minimum requirements for 
high-risk work activities including obligations to stop unsafe 
work. We monitor personal exposure to health hazards to 
ensure the ongoing effectiveness of controls. Our risk-based 
fitness for work medical assessments, health surveillance, 
injury and illness management and return to work processes 
support the ongoing health of our workforce.  »Zero Tier 1 or 2 Loss of 
Primary Containment 
Process Safety Events
 »Matured our approach 
to psychological risk 
management and 
established our Working 
Respectfully Policy
 »Engaged our workforce to 
mature our safety culture 
using perception survey 
insights2021 HIGHLIGHTS
 »Deliver improvements in 
safety performance
 » Strengthen our focus on 
prevention of occupational 
illnesses and life-altering 
events
 »Embed psychological 
health and safety, and 
human factors, into 
our safety culture and 
leadership training
 »Build a shared culture to 
improve industry-wide 
safety outcomesOPPORTUNITIES
 »Failure to maintain major 
hazard controls in line with 
our Golden Safety Rules
 »Failure to maintain key 
COVID-19 health controls 
 »Failure to effectively 
manage psychological 
risks including bullying 
and harassment and sexual 
discrimination
 »Failure to complete 
planned priority activities 
to maintain the integrity of 
our facilitiesRISKSMATERIAL TOPIC
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 71All employees, contractors and joint venturers engaged in 
activities under Woodside operational control are covered by 
our management system and are responsible for application 
of our approach. Woodside managers are also responsible for 
promotion of our approach in non-operated joint ventures.
Workforce consultation and participation in health and 
safety is enabled through our site-based Health, Safety and 
Environment (HSE) Representatives and office-based HSE 
working groups. HSE Representatives meet each swing 
(at least once a month) at operational sites to discuss 
workplace health and safety risks and raise priority issues 
with site management. Our office based HSE working 
groups meet monthly to review progress of activity plans 
and discuss HSE-related issues. These office-based groups 
established monthly forums in 2021 to share insights across 
business areas and consult with building management to 
discuss HSE issues and strengthen office safety culture.
Inductions are provided to familiarise workers with  
key HSE hazards and procedures for the relevant work 
location. Targeted training builds capability to manage 
HSE risks in line with our HSE management system and 
competency frameworks. 
Training focuses on application of Our Safety Culture,  
Golden Safety Rules, process safety management framework, 
emergency response preparedness and management of 
occupational health, including support for mental health  
and wellbeing. In 2021, we rationalised our production inductions to focus 
on specific information for workers accessing Australian 
sites, building on the fundamentals established through 
a common industry induction through the Safer Together 
industry collaboration network. 
Our COVID- 19 response
Our highest priority during the COVID-19 pandemic has 
been maintaining the health and safety of our workforce. 
Our COVID Resilience Team is focused on preparing for the 
changing risk profile across business locations, considering 
response arrangements including appropriate preventative 
and mitigative controls, and strategies for business continuity. 
In Western Australia, we responded to COVID-19 challenges 
including lockdowns and interstate border restrictions 
throughout 2021. We focused on ensuring sufficient 
personnel for critical operational and maintenance roles 
and continued to support the health and wellbeing of our 
workforce using existing frameworks. 
The Government of Western Australia announced public 
health directions, restricting facility access for Exposed 
Port Workers and Resources Industry Workers (Vaccination 
Directions), in September and October 2021 respectively. 
Under the Vaccination Directions full vaccination was required 
by 12 November 2021 for Exposed Port workers, and  
1 January 2022 for Resources Industry Workers. 
Following a workforce survey, in October 2021, we 
announced we were working towards a proposal to require 
COVID-19 vaccination to enter Australian offices to keep our 
people safe and maintain business continuity. 
 
Woodside employees  
at Karratha Gas Plant. 
72 Sustainable Development Report 2021After completion of our workforce consultation, Woodside 
decided to introduce the COVID-19 vaccination procedure 
from 5 February 2022, it will be a condition of entry to be fully 
vaccinated against COVID-19 to enter a Woodside Australian 
office or to provide a valid medical or other exemption. 
Workforce consultation on the proposed procedure was 
undertaken to respectfully consider diverse health, cultural and 
other concerns, while maintaining focus on the core objective. 
Internationally our projects and offices managed the ongoing 
impact of lockdowns and travel restrictions across various 
countries, with some requiring extended rotations with 
limited ability to return to Australia.
Our Senegal-based team operated predominantly in 
lockdown mode in 2021 as we commenced drilling 
operations, with triggers to consider adjustment of onshore 
activities based on community transmission rates and local 
health system response capacity. Requirements for personnel 
mobilising offshore to quarantine and complete polymerase 
chain reaction (PCR) testing prior to travel were adjusted 
in November 2021, when the quarantine requirement 
was replaced with confirmation of COVID-19 vaccination 
and negative PCR tests. Safety of personnel on-board is 
maintained through PCR testing and case management, 
medical evacuation options and isolation rooms for cases 
remaining on-board. 
We recognise that ongoing COVID-19 constraints and 
controls have impacted our people and how we conduct  
our business. Our risk assessments have allowed us to 
improve controls and implement a proactive approach,  
for example, to fatigue monitoring and management  
of workforce wellbeing. We continue to learn and adjust our response plans as 
the COVID- 19 situation evolves, both in Australia and 
internationally.
Our safety performance 
In 2021, we had zero Tier 1 or Tier 2 loss of primary 
containment process safety events. Our total recordable 
injury rate (TRIR) increased to 1.74 per million work hours 
with 27 recordable injuries compared to 11 in 2020. The main 
injury types were lacerations, soft tissue injuries and fractures. 
Seven injuries resulted in lost work time compared to one in 
2020. Workforce exposure hours increased by 24% from 2020 
with similar activity levels to 2019. High Potential Incidents 
(HPIs) increased to 14 from 11 in 2020.
TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURIES (TRI)  
AND TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE (TRIR)
21
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021121.291.32
0.90 0.881.74
11 819
5 2 3 380.90
2019311
2021 2017512
1.29
201821
21.32
202038
0.88
Employee TRI Contractor TRI Woodside TRIR1.74
819
21
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 73Application of our process safety management framework 
supports the ongoing integrity of our operations.  
We identify process safety risks through design and 
operation to proactively manage the integrity of our 
facilities to prevent and mitigate a major accident event.  
We work to understand key risks and act to ensure work 
scopes are completed to maintain integrity. An example of 
this risk-based approach is evident through our analysis 
of lower consequence events (i.e. Tier 3 loss of primary 
containment process safety events), which proactively 
identified valve stems as a risk area. Corrective actions 
implemented across sites helped to prevent similar or  
higher consequence events occurring through 2021.
Connecting office workers with safety
In response to 2020 Safety Culture Survey results, our 
Finance and Commercial team implemented a plan during 
2021 to manage their own HSE risks, enrich wellbeing and 
improve their understanding of site-based HSE risks. 
A key objective was to understand their role in the prevention 
of major accident events. Activities involved office personnel 
visiting an operational site, discussing business HSE risks at 
Divisional meetings and attending major accident hazard 
awareness training delivered by Safer Together (i.e. Contain 
IT training). These interactive and practical engagements 
provided first-hand experience of the effects of hydrocarbon 
releases and subsequent fires in a safe and controlled 
environment. The outcome was an improved understanding 
of major process safety hazards for a section of our workforce 
who influence business decisions, but are not normally 
physically exposed to these hazards. In recognition of the 
effort to mature safety culture, the executive sponsor of the 
Finance and Commercial team was nominated for the CEO 
HSE Recognition award for outstanding safety leadership.
 
Woodside employees  
at Mia Yellagonga
Personal safety and culture
Our 2020 safety perception survey identified HSE skill 
development, workforce involvement including connecting 
office workers to site safety, and recognition of strong 
performance as focus areas to further mature our safety 
culture. Divisional leaders developed 2021 HSE activity 
plans in consultation with work groups aligned to these 
areas. Leveraging our Perfect HSE Day concept, leading 
indicators were identified by teams and monitored regularly 
as part of their HSE activity plans. Our HSE recognition 
program continued across all divisions through 2021 with 
our twice a year CEO HSE Recognition Award formally 
recognising outstanding HSE leadership and contributions 
to safety culture.
Process safety management 
During 2021, we focused on building the process safety 
competency of senior personnel in safety critical roles.  
We trained and subsequently implemented formal 
assessments of more than 50 senior process safety  
leaders across our operations and development projects.  
This program was implemented following an internal review 
and gap analysis to focus on the senior personnel who have 
strategic influence on positive process safety outcomes.  
This increased competency profile supports the embedding 
of process safety management and will continue across all 
the relevant areas of our business. 
74 Sustainable Development Report 2021Demonstrating strong safety engagement 
Our Health, Safety and Environment Representatives make 
a significant contribution to improving workplace safety 
performance and culture. Naomi Elbrow, an Operations 
Technician at the Karratha Gas Plant, was named as the joint 
winner of the Department of Mines, Industry Regulation 
and Safety (DMIRS) safety and health representative of the 
year for 2021, for her work rebuilding Karratha Gas Plant’s 
Top 10 HSE risks. This work helped to raise issues identified 
by the workforce to the attention of leaders and required 
collaboration with different teams across Karratha Gas Plant 
to implement solutions. 
Contractor safety and industry partnerships
We work to enable our contractors and industry partners 
to deliver strong health and safety performance outcomes. 
During 2021, we focused on application of fit for purpose 
assurance processes for our contractors, and implemented 
updates to our competency screening process, to align with 
International Standards for Occupational Health and Safety 
(i.e. ISO 45001) and acknowledge those contractors who 
have current certification.
As a member of Safer Together, we are contributing to a 
shared mission to build a culture of safe behaviours, learning, 
simplification, and standardisation to improve industry wide 
safety outcomes. Our team actively guides the assessment, 
prioritisation, and implementation of Safer Together 
activities within our company. 
We are implementing several initiatives in line with the Safer 
Together mission, including common industry inductions, 
frontline HSER engagement and Contain IT process safety 
training. Another example of successful collaboration is our 
participation in the industry-wide risk assessment of offshore 
lifeboat testing processes. We have revised our testing 
practices to implement lessons learned and remove people 
from the line of fire when undertaking testing operations. 
 
Woodside employees  
at the Karratha Gas Plant.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 75
Learning from events
All HSE events occurring at Woodside controlled sites or 
involving contractors where Woodside is responsible for 
verifying the effectiveness of HSE controls, trigger reporting 
and investigations to drive learning. We communicate 
lessons learned across our business to help identify 
emerging risks and improve implementation of key controls. 
Our investigation approach is proportionate to risk, to 
focus attention on potentially significant HSE issues. We 
share lessons through our industry partnerships and apply 
processes to learn from events that occur external to 
Woodside, implementing relevant actions to help us improve. 
An increase in personal safety events during planned 
maintenance at KGP during mid-2021 triggered a more holistic 
review of event trends. Key improvement areas identified 
included dropped objects, engaging contractors in work 
planning and enabling teams through effective communication. 
Planning for the changed business context of ongoing 
COVID-19 restrictions and high labour demand across 
industries were also identified as focus areas. Actions 
supported improved performance during subsequent 2021 
maintenance activities and lessons were incorporated into 
future work planning.
Our health performance 
Our total recordable occupational illness frequency (TROIF) 
increased to 0.51 per million hours worked from 0.08 in 
2020. The eight recordable occupational illnesses comprised 
four musculoskeletal conditions, one Noise Induced Hearing 
Loss (NIHL), one psychological impairment, one minor 
wound infection, and one adverse skin reaction. A historical 
psychological impairment case was reclassified and 
backdated to an event that occurred in 2018.
Health hazards and exposure monitoring
Our projects eliminate health hazards at the design stage or 
control them to ALARP. In situations where health hazards 
remain in the workplace and there is a risk of exposure,  
we ensure that worker exposure does not exceed legal limits 
through implementation of the hierarchy of control. As a final 
layer of protection, we perform health surveillance, to detect 
the early signs of occupational illness so intervention and if 
necessary, rehabilitation, can be initiated.
Potentially harmful workplace health hazards include 
uncontrolled exposure to noise, hazardous substances  
(e.g., benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene (BTEX),  
and mercury), naturally occurring radioactive material 
(NORM), infectious disease (e.g., COVID-19), hazardous 
manual tasks and psychological hazards. Noise, hazardous 
manual tasks, infection, and psychological hazards 
contributed to recordable occupational illnesses in 2021.
From 2022 a more stringent criteria for the classification noise 
induced hearing loss (NIHL) is being adopted. The updated 
criteria help to identify NIHL cases at the earliest opportunity so intervention can be initiated, and more debilitating illness 
prevented. Increased monitoring of indicators of potential 
mental health concerns and psychological risk factors has 
also been developed to support earlier interventions and 
implementation of controls.
Mental health and wellbeing 
Our mental health and wellbeing framework aims to create 
mentally healthy workplaces by promoting wellbeing, 
protecting mental health, and supporting people through 
challenges. Our framework was developed in response to 
our 2018 safety perception survey, which indicated support 
for mental wellbeing as an area for improvement. Our 2020 
company-wide survey showed significant improvement, 
with a 23% increase in perceived support for mental 
wellbeing across our business. 
In October 2021, we held our annual Stand Together for 
a Perfect HSE Day campaign focusing on adapting to 
challenges and change. In a company-wide activity, all 
teams stopped work to discuss uncertainty, change and the 
potential impacts on HSE outcomes. Leaders applied our 
wellbeing framework and discussed business challenges 
and changes with their teams, focusing on what is within 
their control. Feedback was positive, with the workforce 
appreciating the opportunity to raise and discuss work-
related issues with leaders in a supportive environment 
conducive to speaking up.
We continued to promote the wellbeing wheel, launched in 
2020, to encourage positive preventative practices across six 
areas: physical health and nutrition, exercise, psychological 
skills, social connection, meaning and purpose, and positive 
relationships. Through 2021, led by our leaders, we further 
embedded the wellbeing wheel through our campaigns, 
promoted our employee assistance program (EAP) and 
participated in events including RUOK? Day, Men’s and 
Women’s Health Week, World Suicide Prevention Day,  
and Movember, to help reduce stigma around mental health 
in our workplaces. Our risk management approach to 
protecting mental health involves identification and control 
of workplace psychological hazards. In 2021, our Working 
Respectfully Policy was established to demonstrate our 
commitment to a safe, inclusive, and respectful working 
environment. Underpinned by our Compass Values and Code 
of Conduct the policy highlights that sexual discrimination, 
bullying and harassment are serious violations of those 
principles and will not be tolerated.
We provide training that outlines our HSE expectations 
and aims to improve psychological health and safety in 
our workplaces. Our annual Code of Conduct training was 
refreshed in 2021 to include specific guidance on sexual 
harassment. This training is mandatory for all employees, 
third party contractors and service providers with access 
to our systems. In 2021 we implemented half-day Working 
Better Together – Respectful Behaviours training workshops, 
with 901 employees completing the training. 
76 Sustainable Development Report 2021In 2021, we also established our mental health support 
framework training programs. Our initial focus was on 
building competency of People and Global Capability 
and HSE professionals who act as escalation points for 
higher-risk welfare concerns or during emergency response 
scenarios. These programs also equip leaders to effectively 
identify and respond to potential mental health concerns in 
the workplace and to understand when to escalate issues.  
During 2021, 251 employees attended support framework 
training programs with their feedback used to improve 
delivery of future programs.
Our active network of 200 trained peer supporters provide 
first responder support at worksites in-line with our 
framework. Through the Chamber of Minerals and Energy 
(CME) 28 members of our workforce also participated in the 
successful Resourceful Minds peer support pilot program run 
by Lifeline WA. This program is designed to support mental 
health and wellbeing across the resources industry. Our 
involvement through CME is ongoing.
Occupational health
Our medical assessment process ensures personnel 
demonstrate a capacity for work and that their ongoing health 
and fitness is assessed at regular intervals. It also ensures 
that systems and processes are in place to assist individuals 
with a temporary or permanent incapacity. Risk assessments 
are conducted for specific job areas to inform required 
medical assessments. We also ensure the ongoing security 
and management of all personal information collected in 
accordance with our Code of Conduct and applicable legal 
requirements through our privacy management process.Operating sites maintain medical emergency response plans 
and the capability to implement them. These plans consider 
factors that influence medical emergency risk and describe the 
processes by which on-site medical treatment is commenced 
and escalation to higher level emergency medical support is 
activated. Plans are practiced through routine exercises, drills, 
and activities to ensure preparedness and support process 
improvements. All sites have risk-based response plans in 
place to manage COVID-19.
Health promotion and resources 
We provide employees with financial assistance and take steps 
to facilitate access to non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services. Our Health Insurance Allowance assists employees 
to obtain health insurance cover for themselves and their 
dependents. Gym membership subsidies are available, including 
at our Mia Yellagonga office in Perth where the Wellness centre 
also provides onsite access to allied health services. 
Our fully subsidised EAP provides voluntary access 
to professional, confidential coaching and support for 
employees and eligible family members to promote 
wellbeing. All reporting from our EAP provider is 
aggregated and de-identified to maintain confidentiality. 
Alcohol education is also provided for some sites, based 
on anonymised survey insights, to address alcohol 
use frequency and binge drinking as a potential non-
occupational health risk area. 
 
Woodside employees at Mia Yellagonga.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 772021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Workforce exposure hours1 
Employees 6,424,477 7,187,170 6,830,811 7,089,138 7,172,434
Contractors2, 39,076,377 5,271,462 8,746,294 10,315,447 6,016,084
Total 15,500,854 12,458,632 15,577,105 17,404,585 13,188,518
Number of incidents3
Fatalities – employees 0 0 0 0 0
Fatalities – contractor 0 0 0 0 0
Total fatalities 0 0 0 0 0
Recordable injuries – employees 8 3 3 2 5
Recordable injuries – contractors 19 8 11 21 12
Total recordable injuries4 27 11 14 23 17
Lost time injury events – employees 3 1 1 1 0
Lost time injury events – contractors 4 0 2 4 8
Total lost time injury events 7 1 3 5 8
High potential incidents5 14 11 19 7 13
Recordable occupational illnesses – employees 5 1 3 3 5
Recordable occupational illnesses – contractors 3 1 4 5 1
Total recordable occupational illnesses68 2 7 8 6
Number of process safety events7
Tier 1 0 1 0 1 0
Tier 2 0 2 0 1 0
Total 0 3 0 2 0
Frequency rates3,8
Total recordable injury rate – employees 1.25 0.42 0.44 0.28 0.70
Total recordable injury rate – contractors 2.09 1.52 1.26 2.04 1.99
Total recordable injury rate8 1.74 0.88 0.90 1.32 1.29
Lost time injury frequency – employees 0.47 0.14 0.15 0.14 0.00
Lost time injury frequency – contractors 0.44 0.00 0.23 0.39 1.33
Lost time injury frequency8 0.45 0.08 0.19 0.29 0.61
High potential incident frequency 0.90 0.88 1.22 0.40 0.99
Total recordable occupational illness 
frequency – employees0.78 0.14 0.44 0.42 0.70
Total recordable occupational illness 
frequency – contractors0.33 0.19 0.46 0.48 0.17
Total recordable occupational illness 
frequency90.52 0.16 0.45 0.46 0.45
Total recordable injury rate by region8
Australia 1.77 0.89 1.00 1.61 1.29
Asia 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Africa 2.02 0.00 0.00 n/a n/a
Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 22.05
Overall frequency 1.74 0.88 0.90 1.32 1.29
Total recordable occupational illness frequency by region8
Australia 0.48 0.16 0.50 0.56 0.48
Asia 4.02 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Africa 0.00 0.00 0.00 n/a n/a
Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Overall frequency 0.52 0.16 0.45 0.46 0.45HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
78 
Sustainable Development Report 20212021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Number of lost days by region9
Australia 454 28 113 312 167
Asia 0 0 0 0 0
Africa 3 0 0 n/a n/a
Other 0 0 0 0 29
Total 457 28 113 312 196
Number of lost days by gender9
Male – employees 94 28 41 53 0
Female – employees 0 0 0 0 0
Male – contractors 363 0 72 259 196
Female – contractors 0 0 0 0 0
Total 457 28 113 312 196
Number of recordable injuries by gender
Male – employees 6 2 3 2 3
Female – employees 2 1 0 0 2
Male – contractors 18 7 11 21 11
Female – contractors 1 1 0 0 1
Total 27 11 14 23 17
Number of recordable occupational illnesses by gender
Male – employees 3 1 2 3 5
Female – employees 2 0 1 0 0
Male – contractors 3 1 4 5 1
Female – contractors 0 0 0 0 0
Total 8 2 7 8 6
Training time spent on health and safety by region (hours)
Australia3 60,676 54,014 58,976 31,795 25,505
Asia 102 397 96 605 0
Africa 241 19 25 13 NPR*
Europe 54 33 291 53 NPR*
North America 48 21 150 2 NPR*
Total 61,121 54,483 59,538 32,468 25,505
1 Wherever possible, hours are recorded on the basis of actual hours worked. If actual hours cannot be determined, hours are calculated based on headcount and nominal working 
hours per person, using the number of hours for an average working day (ranging from 8 hours for office-based work to 12 hours for shift-work).
2 Increase in exposure hours in 2021 due to an increase in activities.
3 Contractor exposure hours, incidents and frequency rates exclude contractors operating within their own health, safety and environment (HSE) management system that has no 
interfaces with the Woodside HSE management system.
4 Trends in the type of injuries recorded for employees and contractors were lacerations, soft tissue injuries and fractures.
5 High Potential Incidents (HPIs) consider the consequence of a fatality and/or high-consequence injury, and the likelihood of that consequence occurring. All HPIs are formally 
investigated and corrective action taken.
6 Trends in the type of illnesses recorded for employees and contractors were musculoskeletal conditions and psychological impairment. Please note a historical psychological 
impairment case was reclassified and back dated to an event that occurred in 2018. This is not included in the data table but included in the narrative and noted here for 
completeness.
7 Classified in accordance with American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 (API RP 754).
8 Frequency rates are calculated per million work hours.
9 As a result of lost time injury LTI. Refer to definitions and glossary page.
* NPR refers to Not Previously Reported.
n/a Not applicable.continued
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 79CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Our approach
Our approach to sustainability is incorporated in our 
Woodside Management System including our policies, 
procedures, Compass and Code of Conduct.
Woodside’s Compass is core to our governance framework 
and sets out our mission, vision, strategic direction and core 
values. Woodside is committed to a high level of corporate 
governance and fostering a culture that values ethical 
behaviour, integrity and respect.
Our performance
Our Board has oversight of our management and business 
activities. The Board has four standing committees to assist 
in the discharge of its responsibilities. These include:
• Audit and Risk Committee
• Human Resources and Compensation Committee
• Nominations and Governance Committee
• Sustainability Committee
The committees operate principally in a review or advisory 
capacity, except in cases where powers are specifically 
conferred on a committee by the Board. 
The Sustainability Committee assists the Board to meet 
its responsibilities in relation to our sustainability policies, 
expectations and procedures. It reviews and makes 
recommendations to the Board on our policies and 
performance on sustainability related topics. In 2021, the 
Committee oversaw changes to the Health, Safety and 
Environment Policy, Quality Policy, Climate Change Policy 
and Sustainable Communities Policy. It also endorsed for 
Board approval Woodside’s Modern Slavery Statement,  
the 2021–2025 Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), and 
including the approval of the establishment of an Indigenous 
Advisory Group during the course of the five year RAP.The Committee, as at 31 December 2021, comprised seven 
independent, non-executive directors. Mr Ben Wyatt joined 
the Woodside Board as a non-executive director on  
2 June 2021 and has been a member of the Sustainability 
Committee since then.
The Nominations and Governance Committee assists 
the Board in discharging its responsibilities on matters 
relating to the company’s corporate governance policies 
and practices. These principles and practices are reviewed 
regularly and revised as appropriate to reflect changes in law 
and developments in corporate governance. The Chairman 
also chairs the Committee and all non-executive directors are 
currently members. Woodside believes that adopting and operating in accordance with high 
standards of corporate governance is essential for sustainable long-term 
performance and value creation.
 
Woodside employees at Mia Yellagonga.SIGNIFICANT TOPIC
80 Sustainable Development Report 2021We are committed to conducting our business and activities 
in an ethical manner. Woodside’s Compass and Code of 
Conduct are key components of who we are, what we do 
and how we behave. As well as complying with all applicable 
laws, all directors, employees and contractors are required 
to conform to the Code of Conduct, adopting the expected 
principles, practices and standards of behaviour set out in 
the Code of Conduct. 
Annual refresher training on the Code of Conduct is 
mandatory for all employees, and contractors with systems 
access. All new starters must complete the training as part of 
their onboarding. The 2021 completion rate for the Code of 
Conduct refresher training was 100% of eligible employees. 
Business ethics
Employees, contractors, and individuals external to 
Woodside have a variety of ways they can speak up and raise 
concerns about the conduct of Woodside and its people. 
All allegations of misconduct are assessed and investigated 
in line with established internal investigation processes 
and outcomes are reported to the Board’s Audit and Risk 
Committee. Disciplinary actions, which range from warnings 
to termination of employment, are taken when allegations 
are substantiated. Where substantiated conduct relates to 
contractor personnel, those personnel may also be removed 
from Woodside sites where necessary. 
There were 30 investigations concluded in 2021, which 
addressed a total of 63 allegations against 24 employees 
and 23 service providers. Seventeen investigations resulted 
in substantiated allegations, concerning the conduct of 
eight employees and 15 service providers. This resulted in 
six employee terminations, and the removal of ten service 
providers. The types of substantiated misconduct during 
2021 are set out in the below chart.
7
Sexual 
harassment4
Other/Breach 
of policy
3
Harassment1
Fraud1
IT Conditions 
of use1
Bullying
Total
17
SUBSTANTIATED 
MISCONDUCTSUBSTANTIATED 2021 MISCONDUCT TYPE
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 81
Our approach to tax
In Australia, where we are headquartered and our producing 
assets located, we are a significant and transparent taxpayer. 
Compliance with the letter and spirit of the law
As set out in our publicly available Tax Policy, we comply with 
tax laws and regulations applicable to our business, having 
particular regard to the spirit in which it was legislated. 
We believe in paying taxes on time and where value 
is created. Aligned with Woodside’s commitment to 
compliance with the law, the jurisdictions in which we do 
business is underpinned by genuine commercial substance. 
We do not support the use of artificial arrangements, that is, 
those intended for tax avoidance or which transfer value to 
low tax or so-called ‘tax haven’ jurisdictions. 
Woodside has an established tax governance framework 
approved by the Woodside Board. Woodside’s Audit and Risk 
Committee (A&RC) supports the Board to meet its oversight 
responsibilities in relation to the company’s tax matters.  
It does this through engagement with and regular attendance 
by the Vice President Tax and by reviewing the company’s 
policies and practices for managing compliance with tax laws. 
The Woodside tax function is subject to periodic internal 
audit which test the compliance, governance and control 
frameworks that exist. Transparent engagement with our stakeholders
Woodside is committed to engage with policy setters and 
administrators in a trusted and transparent manner. 
• Annual Compliance Arrangement. In Australia we continue 
to voluntarily participate under our longstanding tax 
compliance arrangement with the Australian Taxation 
Office (ATO) known as an Annual Compliance Arrangement 
(ACA). The ACA is only available to taxpayers that are 
transparent, trusted, and have robust tax governance 
practices. The ACA currently extends to both corporate 
income tax and Petroleum Resource Rent Tax (PRRT) and 
Woodside is a ‘Key Taxpayer’ for these taxes.
• Justified Trust. In addition to the ACA, as one of Australia’s 
Top 100 taxpayers Woodside is also part of the ATO’s 
justified trust program. Based on similar co-operative 
principles as the ACA, the ATO’s justified trust program 
seeks to assure that large corporates are paying the right 
amount of tax. Woodside has received some of the highest 
assurance ratings awarded by the ATO.
• Trusted Trader. We have also been recognised as an 
Australian Trusted Trader by the Australian Border Force, 
an accreditation awarded to businesses that possess 
supply chain and trade compliance consistent with world 
customs organisation standards. 
Woodside contributes submissions to government, and 
regularly reports on business activities outside of statutory 
reporting requirements.
Transparent reporting of our approach and contribution
We continue to have close regard to the level of tax 
transparency our stakeholders require. We actively participate 
in several global ESG rating indices and our approach to tax is 
included within the leading group, relative to our industry peers. 
Woodside was an early adopter of the Board of Taxation’s 
voluntary Tax Transparency Code. We continue to report under 
this Code, publishing Part A of the recommended disclosures in 
our Annual Report 2021 and Part B in this report, supported by 
additional information on our website. TRANSPARENCY
Woodside recognises the interests of our stakeholders in maintaining 
transparency of our tax and other payments to governments.
82 Sustainable Development Report 2021Our Australian tax contribution
We pay our taxes, as and when due, in compliance with  
the law. 
Woodside receives more than 95% of our revenues from the 
sale of hydrocarbons from our producing assets located in 
Australia, and as a result, pays more than 95% of its taxes  
in Australia. 
Our Australian taxes are paid by a number of entities, namely 
Woodside Petroleum Ltd, Woodside Energy Ltd and our 90% 
owned Burrup entities, Burrup Facilities Company Pty Ltd 
and Burrup Train 1 Pty Ltd.
212
Federal 
Royalties48
Federal Excise60
Payroll Tax5
Fringe Beneﬁts Tax
333
Corporate 
Income TaxTotal
A$658
MILLION2021 AUSTRALIAN TAX CONTRIBUTION (A$ M)We remain a significant Australian 
taxpayer with more than 
95% 
of our taxes paid in AustraliaMore than 
A$11 billion  
in Australian taxes and royalties  
paid since 2011
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 83
Through these entities Woodside has paid more than  
A$11 billion in Australian taxes and royalties since 2011.  
In the current year Woodside paid A$658 million to the 
Australian Commonwealth and State governments. Refer 
to the 2021 Australian Tax Contribution, and Woodside’s 
five-year Australian Tax Contribution in the data table below, 
which has been assured by Deloitte. 
As an energy producer in Australia, we are subject 
to, report under and pay a number of taxes, such as 
Corporate Income Tax, Federal Royalties, Federal Excise 
and Petroleum Resource Rent Tax (PRRT). Woodside’s tax 
payments are affected by several factors, such as changes 
to production, operating fields and commodity prices 
affecting revenues, as well as cost of sales and capital 
investment impacting expenditures. 
Our Australian corporate income tax payments were lower 
in 2021 principally as a result of Woodside’s tax losses 
incurred during the COVID-19 pandemic and associated 
market conditions. 
As a large business, Woodside’s profits are subject to 
corporate income tax at a statutory rate of 30%.  
However, its effective income tax rate (EITR) is an 
accounting measure. The presentation of EITR factors 
in differences between tax and accounting rules. The 
key variances between that statutory rate and EITR are 
explained in this presentation. As detailed in Woodside’s 
Annual Report 2021, Woodside’s EITR on its Australian 
profits (Australian EITR) was near to this – 30.6% in 2021, 
compared with 29.6% in 2020.Our foreign presence and related-party 
dealings 
Woodside also conducts business outside of Australia and  
as a result pays foreign taxes.
Our Annual Report 2021 contains a list of Woodside’s 
companies, their country of incorporation and our ownership 
interest. All entities incorporated in Australia are tax residents 
of Australia. Woodside also maintains offices in foreign 
jurisdictions. These are not specified in the Annual Report 
2021 (as it only details body corporates). In total Woodside 
has a taxable presence in more than 20 foreign jurisdictions.
In line with our commitment to pay taxes according to where 
value is created, we apply arm’s length principles to our 
international related-party dealings. This ensures value is not 
artificially transferred outside of Australia.
Our Australian entities regularly have related-party dealings 
with our foreign subsidiaries. These are typically in the 
nature of support services provided either from Australia 
(our headquarters) or from various foreign locations in 
which personnel are located. These locations include our 
offices in China, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and the 
USA, amongst others. The total value of these services is 
not significant when compared to the revenue from our 
production activities. 
Through its close proximity to the LNG customer market,  
our Singapore office provides integrated marketing, trading 
and shipping services to optimise the returns received for 
our uncommitted Australian LNG cargoes. The profits from 
these cargoes are subject to tax in Australia. 
Other support functions are located across the globe  
in proximity to important assets or markets.
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Corporate Income Tax 333 473 447 555 537
Petroleum Resource Rent Tax3 0 0 0 -3 -8
Federal Royalties 212 120 189 217 153
Federal Excise 48 33 39 62 59
Payroll Tax 60 75 57 58 53
Fringe Benefits Tax 5 6 5 5 3
Total 658 707 737 894 797
1 Figures are reported on a cash basis (net of any refunds received) and are rounded to the nearest million.
2 Woodside's Australian tax contribution for 2017–2021 has been assured by Deloitte in accordance with Australian Auditing Standard on Review Engagements ASRE 2405 Review of 
Historical Financial Information Other than a Financial Report. Deloitte's assurance inspects evidence to ensure the figures in the table above accurately reflect Woodside's cash paid  
to settle Australian tax obligations in 2021. 
3 Includes refunds of tax overpaid in respect of prior years.AUSTRALIAN TAX CONTRIBUTION (A$ M)1,2
84 Sustainable Development Report 2021EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES TRANSPARENCY INITIATIVE
Woodside is a signatory to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), 
a coalition of governments, companies and civil society groups committed to 
promoting the accountable management of the resources sector globally.
Our approach
Woodside joined the EITI in 2005 and became an EITI 
Supporting Company in 2008. We actively participate in 
the implementation of country level EITI work plans, as our 
host countries work towards the implementation of the EITI 
Standard. As part of this process, we report the taxes and 
fees we pay in implementing countries where we are active.Our performance
Woodside also supports decisions by our host countries to 
publish contracts and licences, in line with the EITI Standard 
and to the extent that these contracts are not subject to 
confidentiality restrictions.
INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS
Woodside maintains membership to a range of industry associations both  
in Australia and globally.
Our approach
These memberships deliver value to the company and our 
shareholders by providing a platform to share industry 
lessons, global best practice, and technical standards and to 
develop and constructively debate public policy positions.
 Our performance
To ensure each membership we hold continues to deliver 
value, we undertake an annual review of our industry 
association memberships. As part of this process, we look 
to assure that those industry associations we belong to 
continue to advocate positions that broadly reflect our own, 
particularly with regards to climate.
We also assess whether our memberships continue to 
contribute positively to achieving our business priorities. 
If a membership no longer supports our business priorities 
or a material misalignment is identified that cannot 
be addressed through constructive engagement, the 
membership is reconsidered.
Woodside’s 2021 industry association review identified no 
cases of material misalignment.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 85POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS 
Woodside engages with political stakeholders to constructively inform policy 
development and decision making, in support of our business priorities.
 
Woodside employees at Mia Yellagonga.Our approach
We do not donate to campaign funds for any political party, 
politician or candidate for public office in any country.  
In Australia, Woodside makes payments to attend  
ad-hoc business engagement events arranged by  
political stakeholders. 
Decisions to attend these events are subject to robust 
governance processes. Our Board considers and approves 
our approach to political contributions each year. We also 
disclose all payments we make to the Australian Electoral 
Commission.Our performance
Woodside’s political payments for the financial year  
2020–2021, as reported to the AEC, totalled A$232,350. 
This comprised A$193,250 for business forum memberships 
and A$39,100 for participation in other state and federal 
political workshops and networking.
Following a decision by the Woodside Board in 2021, Woodside 
will not be renewing or seeking new memberships to political 
party business engagement forums moving forward.
This decision reflects our cross business effort to maintain  
a disciplined approach to transparency.
86 Sustainable Development Report 2021Our approach 
Guided by our Compass and Code of Conduct, we commit 
to global anti-bribery and corruption efforts and support the 
communities where we are active. Wherever possible, we seek 
to influence positive actions by our business partners and third 
parties, including comprehensive business ethics obligations 
contained in joint venture and supplier contracts. Woodside is 
a corporate member of Transparency International.
Our prohibition on bribery and corruption anywhere in the 
world is underpinned by our Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Policy which applies to all directors, officers, employees 
and contractors providing a service for or on behalf of 
Woodside. This Policy is supported by a comprehensive 
fraud and corruption control program, which is 
implemented through an annual fraud and corruption 
control plan.
An externally led independent review of Woodside’s fraud 
and corruption control program will be conducted in 2022 
to identity any further improvements to the management 
of this risk.
Our performance 
The 2021 fraud and corruption control plan has been 
successfully delivered, with highlights including:
• Delivery of annual advanced anti-bribery and corruption 
(ABC) training 
• Continued communication and training across the 
company in relation to conflicts of interest and gifts  
and entertainment 
• Completion of fraud data analytics
• Review of internal investigation processes,  
tools and training
• Completion of six ABC compliance audits  
on selected contractors.
During 2021, no violations of applicable anti-bribery  
and corruption laws were recorded in connection with  
our operations. There was one instance of low-value fraud detected and 
investigated in 2021 resulting in removal of one contractor 
personnel and the full amount of the loss recovered.
An ABC compliance plan of activities was implemented for 
the Sangomar Field Development Phase 1 to manage fraud 
and corruption risks on this project. Key activities included: 
• Travel briefings, resulting in nine separate instances of 
personnel successfully resisting facilitation payment 
requests
• Enhanced ABC due diligence and engagement with 
contractors on high-ABC risk contracts
• Face-to-face training for Senegal-based staff on 
identification and escalation of ABC red flags.
Supporting transparency: speak up 
Encouraging and supporting all stakeholders to speak up 
about misconduct was a focus during 2021. We implemented 
a new external whistleblower hotline (EthicsPoint) with 
multi-language and multi-jurisdiction capability and online 
functionality. A campaign was undertaken in the second 
half of the year to raise awareness of the service and to 
encourage personnel to speak up. 
All matters reported through EthicsPoint are assessed and 
investigated in accordance with the internal investigations 
process, overseen by a multi-discipline Investigations 
Steering Group. FRAUD, ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION
Our zero-tolerance approach to fraud, bribery and corruption supports 
Woodside’s commitment to ethical conduct and transparency across our 
business activities around the world. 
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 87REGULATORY COMPLIANCE 
We set expectations to ensure we meet the regulatory obligations applicable  
to our business activities. 
Our approach
The Woodside Compass is the foundation of our approach 
to regulatory compliance, enabling us to do the right thing, 
at the right time, in the right way. Our Risk and Compliance 
Behaviours complement the Compass to outline specific 
expectations that support our way of working without 
compromising the fundamentals of keeping each other safe, 
complying with the law and maintaining our social licence  
to operate. 
Our process is embedded in the Woodside Management 
System, a framework that defines all our key business 
activities to ensure a unified way of working. With the 
collective feedback of internal and external stakeholders,  
in 2021, we revised our process to ensure it is fit-for-purpose 
and aligned with internationally recognised compliance 
standards. Our improvements are designed to: 
• reinforce fundamental compliance principles 
• clarify roles and accountabilities 
• monitor implementation 
• support non-compliance event management  
and reporting. 
We launched the Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) 
capability training program to build organisational clarity on 
how an integrated GRC approach supports effective decision-
making and sustainable long-term performance. The program 
utilises an interactive social learning platform focused on 
competency development through industry case studies and 
learnings with peer engagement. We also implemented multiple enhancements to our 
compliance management system to improve data quality, 
enable efficient assessment and reporting, and support the 
management of corrective actions. We continuously seek  
to learn and develop how we can draw from compliance  
data and the use of technology to analyse trends in 
compliance performance and prevent non-compliance  
events from occurring. 
In 2022, we will continue to focus our efforts on building 
organisational compliance capability and on providing 
technical compliance support for our base business and 
growth projects. 
Our performance
We operate in a complex regulatory landscape, carrying 
out business activities in 38 jurisdictions globally. In 2021, 
we commenced a comprehensive review of all applicable 
legislative titles and associated regulatory obligations,  
which will be completed in 2022.
In 2021, 18 occurrences were assessed against our non-
compliance event classification framework. Eight regulator 
notifications were received in relation to a potential or 
actual regulatory compliance breach. No significant financial 
penalties or sanctions with a detrimental impact to our 
activities have been incurred.
38
jurisdictions globally 18
occurrences assessed 
against non-compliance 
events 8
regulator notifications 
received for a potential or 
actual compliance breach0
significant financial 
penalties or sanctions 
incurred REGULATORY COMPLIANCE PERFORMANCE
88 Sustainable Development Report 2021Our approach
The cyber threats that organisations face worldwide continue 
to increase in diversity and frequency, driven by organised 
crime and the ready availability of ransomware-as-a-service 
and similar extortion techniques. Our implementation of 
the zero-trust operating model is key in protecting our 
identities, systems, data, applications, and infrastructure 
from these cyber threats. Following our secure-by-design 
principles, to ensure security is embedded natively into our 
IT and Operational Technology (OT) projects, helps prevent 
security flaws that can impact the confidentiality, integrity 
and availability of our data and systems. We expanded our 
security monitoring from IT to OT, providing an enterprise-
wide threat detection, response and containment capability.
This sustained approach to continuous improvement in 
cybersecurity management remains essential to protecting 
Woodside’s people, facilities and reputation. 
Our performance
Woodside’s cyber scorecard measures continue to 
demonstrate how our cybersecurity management is aligned 
with the threats and risks that would have the most impact on 
our organisation. We completed the Australian Energy Sector 
Cyber Security Framework assessment, reporting results in 
line with other critical gas sector participants to the Australian 
Energy Market Operator (AEMO). We continue to engage with 
the critical infrastructure reforms process led by the Australian 
Government’s Department of Home Affairs.
Woodside responded to 1,585 cyber incidents in 2021 with 
active intervention by our security analysts. A targeted 
distributed denial of service attack, which attempted to 
make our external-facing IT systems inaccessible, initially 
degraded performance on a small number of our systems 
but was quickly mitigated. All incidents were contained 
and resolved without materially affecting our business or 
production facilities. Using trust to control access to data  
and systems
Zero-trust is a set of cybersecurity controls and threat 
models that no longer assume people, systems or services 
operating in an organisation’s digital environment should be 
automatically trusted. Instead, we apply a continuous risk-
based verification process to determine what level of access 
to IT systems we allow, based on the context of the access 
request. Context includes identity (who is seeking access), 
location (where the request originates), device (what machine 
they are using to gain access) and the system they are trying 
to connect to. Where this context represents an elevated level 
of risk, access is more closely managed including higher levels 
of authentication, monitoring and response. 
For example, monitoring the location of access requests can 
expose impossible travel. Woodside’s security operations team 
is alerted when a single individual has logged in from Perth 
and then again from overseas within a timeframe too short to 
have travelled to that location, indicating fraudulent activity. 
Moving from a traditional perimeter-based security construct 
to this zero-trust approach allows us to focus on the vital few 
systems and provides a ‘fail-safe’ environment for our systems 
and data ensuring the exploitation of one system is less to 
likely result in the loss of other systems or data.CYBERSECURITY
Sustained improvements in our cyber resilience enabled Woodside  
to confront increased cybersecurity threats and attacks in 2021.
 
Woodside employees  
at Mia Yellagonga.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 89Alignment to threats
The potential for a major cyber incident is recognised as a 
key risk on the corporate risk register and the underlying 
threats addressed using a combination of reactive response 
processes and strategic transformation programs such as the 
two year zero-trust initiative commenced in 2020.
The first annual Cyber Security Operational Threat 
Landscape report was published to an internal audience 
in 2021 with the objective of raising threat awareness and 
identifying the behavioural changes needed to avoid security 
incidents. It provides a summary of external threat activity 
that could potentially impact Woodside, actual incidents at 
Woodside and the factors that contributed to incidents not 
being prevented.
Woodside actively monitors for changes in the threat 
environment using threat intelligence services, industry 
peers and government bodies such as the Australian Cyber 
Security Centre. 
When a significant threat to Woodside is identified, we 
take action to identify the specific threats actors and their 
tradecraft. Where necessary, our analysis informs our actions 
which may include increased monitoring and refinement of 
ongoing searches for indicators of threat activity. 
When significant security incidents do occur, an independent 
root cause analysis is conducted to identify the underlying 
causes that enabled the incident and to recommend actions 
to prevent recurrence.
 
Woodside employee at  
the Karratha Gas Plant. 
90 
Sustainable Development Report 2021MAJOR INCIDENT PREPAREDNESS
The oil and gas industry is inherently hazardous. The ability to effectively  
respond and recover in the unlikely event of a major incident is a key priority  
for Woodside.
 »Enhanced our incident and crisis management 
arrangements and structure
 »Developed hydrocarbon spill response 
capabilities in Senegal
 »Executed the Australian phase of the Woodside 
Global Security Contracting Strategy, with a 
competitive tender consolidating a number 
of scopes and delivery efficiencies and value 
through reduced contract management 
requirements and greater contract scale2021 HIGHLIGHTS
 »Broaden our crisis leadership capability 
development program through extension  
into the Navigator Leadership Development 
Program
 »Maintain high levels of major incident and 
hydrocarbon spill preparedness and response 
through our training, testing and exercising 
program
 »Ensure major incident preparedness 
arrangements are fit for purpose and scalable
 »Finalise the Woodside Global Security Contracting 
Strategy with consolidation and rationalisation 
of security contracts to ensure enhanced service 
capability and delivery standards, while reducing 
contract management requirements2022 PRIORITIES
Our approach
Woodside maintains a comprehensive and integrated 
all-hazards approach to Major Incident Preparedness by 
applying the emergency risk management philosophy to 
prevent, prepare for, respond to and recover from major 
incident events. 
Focused on the protection of our People, the Environment, 
our Assets, Reputation and Livelihood (PEARL), Woodside 
maintains a tiered response framework, providing scalability 
and measured escalation to incidents or crises. These 
arrangements enable the organisation to act swiftly, 
proportionately, and safely to incidents, aiming to preserve 
business continuity and return impacted assets to normal or 
near-normal conditions as soon as possible following the event.IMPORTANT TOPIC
Our performance
During 2021, our incident management arrangements  
were activated on several occasions. An extended response 
to Myanmar political unrest, following the State of 
Emergency declared in early 2021, enabled effective  
de-mobilisation of our offshore exploration drilling team, 
with all in-country personnel kept safe. Woodside's 
Corporate Incident Coordination Centre was activated in 
support of our in-country team in Myanmar. Subsequent 
to the period, on 27 January 2022, Woodside decided to 
withdraw from its interest in Myanmar. 
Arrangements were activated to prepare for impacts from 
severe tropical cyclone Seroja, and in response to protestor 
activity. We continued our response to the COVID-19 
pandemic, providing scenario planning and response to 
changing pandemic related conditions and impacts to  
our business.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 91We also reviewed and refined our incident and crisis 
management arrangements, providing a more integrated 
and fit-for-purpose response structure, and streamlining 
leadership accountabilities for major incidents.
Incident and crisis management 
As part of our incident and crisis management arrangements, 
Woodside maintains 24 hours per day, seven days a week 
response capability, inclusive of trained on-call incident 
management teams, prepared to swiftly activate and 
respond to major incidents across our global business. 
Woodside also continues to work in partnership with 
government hazard management and support agencies  
in response to major incidents. 
Our systematic training, exercising, and testing of 
arrangements program is aligned with meeting regulatory 
obligations and existing or emerging risks associated 
with Woodside’s Australian and international operations. 
These programs include weekly training and exercising 
for rostered incident management teams and fortnightly 
emergency response exercises on all operational onshore 
and offshore assets.To ensure site-based emergency response readiness is 
maintained and incidents are responded to in a safe and 
sustainable way, Woodside performs independent assurance 
reviews on our operational assets to assess the effectiveness 
of site-based emergency management capabilities, 
identifying opportunities for continuous improvement. 
Further to the 2022 priorities outlined at the beginning  
of this section, additional focus areas for 2022 include  
the following:
• Continued development of our global preparedness and 
response capabilities within each region (i.e. Australasia, 
Africa, Europe and North America) 
• Continuing to build major incident preparedness and 
response capability through succession planning, training, 
exercising, and use of technology
• Maturation of our crisis leadership development program
• Competency and capability (training and testing of 
arrangements)
• Compliance and assurance (meet local, national,  
and international regulations).
Crisis 
Management3Level
Incident
Management1LevelIncident
Management2LevelVP Impacted Asset
or delegateVP Corporate Aﬀairs
or delegateVP Finance/Commercial
or delegateVP HSE
or delegateVP P&GC
or delegateCEO/EXCOM
LegalCMT Leader
(EXCOM Member)
CM Adviser (VP S&EM or delegate)
Management Support
Deputy CICC Leader External Liaison Oﬃcer/s
Internal Liaison Oﬃcer/s
e.g. Metocean TechnologyCorporate Incident Coordination Centre (CICC) Leader
IMT Leader (OIM/IMT/Country/CSOX etc)
Emergency Response Team/First RespondersS&EM Adviser
Management Support
OthersLivelihood FSTReputations FSTOperations FSTEnvironment FSTPeople FST
People 
Coordinator
H&S AdviserPlanning 
Coordinator
Intelligence
EnvironmentOperations
Coordinator
Asset InterfaceLogistics
Coordinator
Marine
Aviation
MaterialsLivelihood
CoordinatorPublic Information
CoordinatorINCIDENT AND CRISIS MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
92 Sustainable Development Report 2021Hydrocarbon spill preparedness 
As part of our ongoing hydrocarbon spill preparedness, 
Woodside maintains a hydrocarbon spill response capability. 
This capability is regularly tested. The testing of our 
arrangements is aligned to global best practise and tests 
the integration and inter-operability of our response plans, 
involving our peers, support organisations and relevant 
government agencies. 
In 2021, we conducted:
• 17 hydrocarbon spill operational site-based drills
• Four hydrocarbon spill exercises involving operational 
sites and corporate support teams
• Eight hydrocarbon spill exercises involving corporate 
support teams only.
Woodside also began establishing a local hydrocarbon spill 
preparedness and response capability in Senegal, in support 
of the Sangomar Field Development Phase 1. This included 
the provision of specialised hydrocarbon spill response 
equipment, resources, and training to local organisations.  
As part of a drive to build local capability, Woodside 
partnered with a local response entity to deliver a bespoke 
responder course for 35 attendees from other local agencies, 
including Senegal’s first dedicated government spill 
response team. This initiative has enabled the beginning of 
a sustainable, long-term capability that is expected to help 
local stakeholders and promote Dakar as a regional response 
hub for future hydrocarbon operations.
 —  
Senegal Hydrocarbon 
spill equipment 
deployment training.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 93
Security risk management 
The Woodside Security Risk Management Framework is 
set out in the Woodside Security Management Procedure 
and associated guidelines. The procedure supports the 
implementation of the Security Management process 
through relevant controls.
Woodside takes a risk-based approach to security 
management consistent with HB 167:2006 Security 
Risk Management. This includes an ongoing process of 
information and intelligence collection and monitoring, 
structured analysis and assessment of security threats,  
risk assessment aligned with ISO 31000:2018 Risk 
Management Principles and Guidelines, and development 
and implementation of associated security plans.
Security operations include plan and control implementation, 
contract management, stakeholder engagement,  
and security investigations.
In order to meet relevant domestic and international security 
legislation and regulatory requirements and manage the 
security risk to Woodside’s personnel and operations, 
Woodside conducts regular engagement with a range of 
government stakeholders, contracted security providers,  
and industry groups and associations
For High Security Risk operational locations and high activity 
operations, designated company security personnel will be 
assigned, in addition to contracted security services.
On operating assets, both regulatory mandated and  
non-regulated roles are specifically assigned security  
risk management responsibilities.Measures across corporate offices, operating assets  
and facilities include:
• Personnel screening
• Security infrastructure augmented by technology
• Visible security through signage, physical barriers,  
and contracted security services
• Security inductions, briefings, and training programs
• Security exercises and drills to test security management 
arrangements and personnel
• Stakeholder engagement
• Security intelligence reporting
• Security risk assessments and plans
• Security incident response capability
• Security investigations
• After action reviews and debriefs
• Security reporting.
Woodside Corporate Security are responsible for stakeholder 
management in relation to Woodside’s security regulated 
assets, global security risk management, and interactions 
and engagement with associated regulators, government 
agencies, industry groups, industry peers, and contracted 
security support services.
Woodside undertakes a number of initiatives to engage 
with stakeholders via industry forums and events, 
cooperation on formal security drills and exercises 
and engagement on security risk regarding legislation, 
compliance and incident response.
 
Woodside employees participating in an incident exercise. 
94 Sustainable Development Report 2021Woodside is an active participant in the following security 
industry forums:
• Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights
• Forum of Australian Security Executives
• Trusted Information Sharing Network
• Oil and Gas Security Forum 
• Oil Companies International Marine Forum  
(Maritime Security Committee)
• Critical Infrastructure Centre – Communities  
of Interest
• Energy Sector Group, Department of Industry,  
Science, Energy and Resources
• International Association of Oil and Gas Producers, 
Security Committee.
Our comprehensive Security Risk Management Process is 
underpinned by relevant procedures and guidelines that set 
out relevant controls and requirements.
Woodside has the following roles to support the 
implementation and management of this process, including 
building and maintaining security culture, and maintaining 
vigilance over security risks:
• Vice President of Property, Security and Business 
Resilience has oversight on the delivery of the security 
process and risk management under a Key Business 
Activity
• An appointed Company Security Officer / Head Security 
Officer who manages the security process
• Facility Security Officers
• Corporate Security team
• Security and Emergency Management Business Resilience 
Managers in designated High Security Risk operational 
locations and areas of high operational activity.
Asset Managers and other leaders have requirements under 
the security management processes, relevant security 
management plans, and legislative obligations where relevant.
Woodside offers a range of security training requirements for 
personnel, which includes formal training that is required by 
legislation, company delivered training relevant to the role, 
and inductions and briefings. Corporate Security coordinate 
personal security training courses and briefings to prepare 
personnel for specific travel, events, operational activities, 
and deployments.
Training for personnel in management of security incidents 
in accordance with this process is outlined within Woodside’s 
Management System. Woodside has a comprehensive, 
tiered crisis and emergency management framework in 
place to manage emergency incidents, should they occur. 
These processes align to nationally adopted emergency 
management principles and philosophies and are applicable 
to response and management of security incidents. Security drills and exercises are conducted by the asset, 
facility or office in accordance with the requirements set out 
in the Security Management Plan or the Woodside Security 
Management Procedure.
Prior to engaging security contractors or public security 
forces to protect company assets or operations all necessary 
due diligence and risks associated with security and human 
rights are identified and accurately assessed and control 
measures to minimise the risk of human rights violations are 
agreed and implemented.
Woodside ensures local content key performance indicators 
are included in security contracts across Australian domestic 
and international locations and requires contractors to report 
on progress.
Contractors completing work on Woodside sites must 
comply with company processes, including security risk 
management. Contractor personnel receive the same 
company inductions, training, briefings, and courses,  
when operating under Woodside systems.
All Woodside contracts must be assessed for security risks. 
Where security risks are a factor that potentially impact on 
a contracted scope and the security and safety of Woodside 
personnel or operations, appropriate security contracting 
delivery requirements will be included and applied.
Corporate Security will ensure contract conformance is 
conducted for assessment against scope deliverables, 
security standards, capabilities, security and human rights 
obligations, anti-bribery and corruption, and health, safety 
and environment requirements. Woodside carries out 
conformity assessments on private security providers to 
assess their conformance and compliance with the provisions 
of their contract with Woodside's requirements. This includes 
the efficiency and the effectiveness of the contractor’s 
management system, including risk management and 
governance processes. 
Where Woodside engages a contractor to provide security, 
the contractor will be required to act in accordance with  
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights,  
the International Code of Conduct for Private Security 
Service Providers, and International Finance Corporation 
(IFC) Performance Standard 4, clauses 12 – 14.
Refer to pages 68-69 for further information  
on Human rights.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 95OVERVIEW
APPENDICESSTEP 4
REVIEW
The materiality process is 
reviewed to identify areas 
for improvement and 
tracking emerging trends 
and topics.MATERIALITY
Our approach
This annual process involves an in-depth desktop study 
from a broad range of internal and external inputs, followed 
by engagement with stakeholders via an online survey and 
interviews to identify and prioritise relevant topics. Our topics 
are then endorsed by our Executive Committee and the 
Board’s Sustainability Committee.
We then classify the topics into material, significant or 
important categories. The topics are then monitored 
throughout the year to ensure we understand developments, 
trends and stakeholder expectations. 
Our 2021 material topics are similar to the 2020 topics, 
with some changes to reflect the evolving priorities of the 
business. The move from ‘Climate change and greenhouse 
gas emissions’ in 2020 as a material topic to ‘Climate change 
resilience and transition’ in 2021 indicates our expanded 
approach to the topic, which now captures new energy, 
carbon origination projects and business resilience. ‘Health, safety and wellbeing’ also includes our continued 
ability to operate our critical business functions and meet 
commitments to our employees, customers and other 
stakeholders during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The determination for ‘Social and cultural impacts on 
communities’ being a material topic in 2020 remains 
unchanged in 2021, with our focus remaining on potential 
social and cultural impacts of our activities.
In 2021 a new topic emerged, with ‘Decommissioning’ being 
added to the important topics list. 
Refer to page 10 for our 2021 ESG topics.  We conduct a broad-based materiality process each year to inform our 
understanding of which ESG topics are relevant to our business activities.
FOUR-STEP PROCESS FOR MATERIALITY
STEP 3
VALIDATE
The classification of 
topics is validated by our 
Executive Committee and 
the Board’s Sustainability 
Committee.STEP 2
PRIORITISE
Topics are ranked based 
on their importance 
to the business and 
external stakeholders 
using a range of inputs, 
before being classified as 
material, significant  
or important.STEP 1
IDENTIFY
A desktop study is 
undertaken to determine 
relevant ESG topics. 
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 97OUR STAKEHOLDERS
We apply a consistent approach to stakeholder engagement focused on 
transparent and meaningful dialogue. Insights from these engagements inform 
our approach, help to manage potential impacts as well as understand stakeholder 
interests and expectations and realise opportunities for shared outcomes. 
Stakeholder How we listen What matters What we do
Customers •  Regular engagements to 
manage delivery of liquids, 
LNG and domestic gas.
• Proactive engagements to 
understand short-, medium- 
and long-term needs.
• In-country representatives 
with marketing offices in 
four locations.• Reliable and safe product 
delivery.
• Production and operational 
risks management.
• Production quality and cost.
• Health and safety 
performance including 
shipping operations.
• Working sustainably.• Focus on safe and reliable 
operations.
• Develop projects to meet 
customers’ energy needs, 
including new energy 
opportunities.
• Deliver supply 
arrangements tailored to 
customer requirements.
Employees • Regular feedback sessions, 
performance reviews and 
personal development 
plans.
• Employee pulse surveys.
• Regular CEO and Executive 
Committee employee 
lunches.
• Divisional and functional 
townhalls and team 
meetings.• Feeling engaged and being 
enabled to do their job.
• Being able to bring 
their whole self to work, 
embracing diversity and 
demonstrating inclusion.
• Regular performance 
feedback.
• Career development 
opportunities.
• Fostering a values-led 
organisational culture that 
optimises performance.
• Health and safety 
performance, including 
mental health and wellbeing.• Promote our refreshed 
Compass values.
• Ongoing employees’ safety, 
health and wellbeing 
initiatives.
• Annual staff briefing 
with the CEO and senior 
executives.
• Annual Woodside Awards, 
recognising outstanding 
employee achievement and 
contribution.
• Regular virtual Ask the CEO 
engagement sessions with 
the entire workforce.
Investors, 
banks and 
finance 
providers• Regular meetings with 
investor representatives and 
financiers.• Optimise value and 
shareholder returns. 
• Management of financial 
and non-financial risks.
• High-quality corporate 
governance.
• Climate change risk 
management.
• Health and safety 
performance.• Investor briefings.
• Full-year and half-year 
results briefings.
• Annual General Meeting.
• Australian Securities 
Exchange announcements.
98 Sustainable Development Report 2021Stakeholder How we listen What matters What we do
Joint venture 
participants• Regular meetings with joint 
venture committees.
• Participation in business 
reviews and audits.• Health and safety 
management.
• Reliability of supply, 
product quality, cost and 
delivery.
• Environment and social 
impact management 
Including greenhouse gas 
management; engagement 
with Traditional 
Custodians.
• Growth opportunities.
• Governance and 
transparency.Work collaboratively to:
• Safely deliver operations 
and growth.
• Manage COVID-19 impacts 
and risk.
• Identify and engage  
with stakeholders.
Indigenous 
Communities• Maintaining a presence in 
Roebourne and Karratha.
• Formal and informal 
engagements with 
Indigenous representative 
groups.
• Quarterly cultural heritage 
meetings.
• Input into social impact 
assessments and community 
perception surveys.
• Community grievance 
mechanism.
• Participation and 
engagement at community 
events.
• Local social media channels.
• Detailed consultation on 
projects and activities.
• Heritage surveys and  
on-country fieldwork.
• Engagement with 
representative bodies.
• Community forums on 
specific issues.• Local employment and 
contracting opportunities.
• Economic benefits.
• Cultural heritage 
management.
• Cost of living and potential 
impacts on local services.
• Cultural safety.
• Climate change risk 
management.
• Environmental impacts.
• Social investment.• Cultural heritage 
management is 
thorough, transparent 
and underpinned by 
consultation and continued 
engagement. 
• Commit to avoiding 
damage or disturbance 
to cultural heritage 
and, if avoidance not 
possible, minimising and 
mitigating the impacts, 
in close consultation with 
Indigenous communities 
and Traditional Custodians. 
• Implement Reconciliation 
Action Plan commitments. 
• Develop and implement 
Indigenous agreements.
• Partner and engage with 
Indigenous communities to 
create positive economic, 
social and cultural 
outcomes.
• Ensure the voices, 
views and aspirations of 
Indigenous communities 
are heard and understood 
within Woodside.
• Organise cultural awareness 
training.
• Support training and 
education and career 
pathways.continued
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 99Stakeholder How we listen What matters What we do
Local 
communities•  Regular community 
meetings.
• Community perception 
surveys.
• Social Impact Assessments.
• Community grievance 
mechanism.
• Community events and 
information sessions.
• Local social media channels.• Local employment and 
contracting opportunities.
• Economic benefits.
• Social Investment.
• Cost of living and potential 
impacts on local services.
• Construction impacts.• Regular community 
consultations.
• Local jobs portal and 
suppliers' forums.
• Targeted social investment 
programs.
• Monitor community and 
stakeholder sentiment.
• Monitor community social 
indicators.
Local, state 
and national  
governments• Ongoing dialogue with 
regulators, government 
agencies and a broad range 
of political stakeholders.• Economic benefits.
• Responsible oil and gas 
resource and new energy 
development.
• Environmental, cultural 
heritage, social and financial 
performance.
• Response to climate 
change and greenhouse gas 
emissions management.
• Regulatory compliance.
• Transparency.• Regular engagement with 
all levels of government 
in support of operations, 
new developments, and 
decommissioning.
• Direct submissions to state 
and national governments’ 
consultation processes.
• Contribute to domestic 
and international industry 
association activities and 
advocacy.
• Ad-hoc engagement with 
political parties in support 
of our business strategy to 
exchange information and 
to constructively inform 
policy development and 
decision making.
Non-
government 
organisations• Input into social and 
environmental impact 
assessments.
• Consultation as part of 
environmental approvals.
• Regular participation 
in industry forums and 
associations.• Climate change and 
greenhouse gas emissions.
• Environmental impacts.
• Anti-bribery and corruption.
• Transparency.
• Human rights.• Engagement on growth 
projects.
• Commitment to 
international climate 
initiatives and reporting 
frameworks.
• Participation for 
environmental research. 
• Participation in the 
Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative 
(EITI).
• Actively engage in the 
Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights.continued
100 Sustainable Development Report 2021 
Woodside employees at Karratha Gas Plant. Stakeholder How we listen What matters What we do
Suppliers and 
contractors• Supplier networking events 
and Contractor Forums.
• Workshops with local 
business networks.
• Regular reciprocal supplier 
performance reviews.
• Tender debrief and 
feedback sessions.
• Embedded supplier 
relationship management 
with our Tier 1 suppliers.• Supply opportunities for 
growth projects.
• Sustainable long-term 
opportunities beyond 
Construction phase into 
Operations.
• Health and safety.
• On time payment of 
invoices.
• Visibility of work plans and 
look ahead.
• Supporting Indigenous 
and local contractors.• Collaborate to deliver 
tangible safety 
improvements.
• Provide supplier forums  
for growth projects.
• Implementation of invoice 
payment cycle time 
improvements.
• Increased visibility and 
sharing of forward work 
plans.
• Collaborate to improve 
Indigenous engagement 
outcomes.
• Support programs to 
develop local business 
capacity and capability.continued
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 101GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CONTENT INDEX
Sustainable 
Development  
Report 2021 pages Annual Report  
2021Climate Report 
2021
GRI 101 - FOUNDATION 2016
Foundation i-124
GRI 102 - GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the organisation Woodside Petroleum 
Ltd
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 7-9
102-3 Location of headquarters 9, 124
102-4 Location of operations 7-9
102-5 Ownership and legal form ii
102-6 Markets served 8-9, 98-101 Annual Report
102-7 Scale of organisation 7, 62-64 Annual Report
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 62-64
102-9 Supply chain 7, 65-67
102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 65-67 Annual Report
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 28-35
102-12 External initiatives 17-22, 68-69, 85 Climate Report
102-13 Membership of associations 85
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 12-15
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 53-63, 80-81, 87-88 
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 80-81, 87
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance structure 12-15, 16, 97 Annual Report, 
Corporate 
Governance 
Statement
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 98-101
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Information not 
available
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 98-101
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 43-52, 98-101
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 43-52, 98-101
REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements  — Annual Report
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 97, 108
102-47 List of material topics 10
102-48 Restatements of information 36-37
102 Sustainable Development Report 2021Sustainable 
Development  
Report 2021 pages Annual Report  
2021Climate Report 
2021
102-49 Changes in reporting 97
102-50 Reporting period ii
102-51 Date of most recent report 17 February 2022
102-52 Reporting cycle ii
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report iii
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards iii
102-55 GRI content index 102-104
102-56 External assurance iii, 109-118
GRI 103 - MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 24-27, 43-52, 71-79, 
108
103-2 The management approach and its components 24-27, 43-52, 71-79
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 24-27, 43-52, 71-79
TOPIC SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
GRI 302 - ENERGY 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 36-37
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation Not applicable1
302-3 Energy intensity 36-37
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Not applicable2
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Not applicable3
GRI 303 - WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018
303-4 Water discharge 36-37
303-5 Water consumption 36-37
GRI 305 - EMISSIONS 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas emissions 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas emissions 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) greenhouse gas emissions 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
305-4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 24-27, 36-37
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other 
significant air emissions24-27, 36-37
GRI 306 - WASTE 2020
306-3 Waste generated 28-37
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 28-37
GRI 403 - OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 71-79
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 
investigation71-79
403-3 Occupational health services 71-79
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 
occupational health and safety71-79
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 71-79
403-6 Promotion of worker health 71-79
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 
impacts directly linked by business relationships71-79continued
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 103Sustainable 
Development  
Report 2021 pages Annual Report  
2021Climate Report 
2021
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 
management system71-79
403-9 Work-related injuries 79
403-10 Work-related ill health 71-79
GRI 404 - TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 62-64
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance  
and career development reviews62-64
GRI 405 - DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 62-644 
Partial omission 
detailed in footnoteAnnual Report, 
Corporate 
Governance 
Statement
GRI 413 - LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programs43-52
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative 
impact on communities43-52
1 Woodside discloses Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions use of sold products emissions value rather than energy consumption. For further information on Woodside's approach  
to Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. Please see pages 24-27 of this report.
2 Woodside discloses total greenhouse gas emissions reductions rather than energy reductions. For further information, please see page 24-27 of this report and page 26-27 of the 
Climate Report 2021.
3 This indicator is not relevant to Woodside's energy products.
4 Diversity categories have been provided where appropriate. However, information regarding the age distribution of the Board has not been included due to privacy reasons. continued
 
Woodside employees at Mia Yellagonga. 
104 Sustainable Development Report 2021
IPIECA SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GUIDANCE (4TH EDITION, 2020) INDEX
IndicatorsSustainable 
Development 
Report 2021 pageAnnual Report  
2021Climate Report  
2021Other  
Sources Omissions
MODULE 2: GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS
GOV-1: Governance and management systems - Governance approach
C1 Annual ReportCorporate 
Governance 
Statement
C2 80-81 Website
C3 97Corporate 
Governance 
Statement
C4 Website
C5 Annual ReportCorporate 
Governance 
Statement
GOV-2: Governance and management systems - Management systems
C1 80-81
C2 88
C3 88 Website
C4 80-81, 88
GOV-3: Business ethics and transparency - Preventing corruption
C1, C2, C3, C4 80-81
A1, A2, A4 80-81, 87
A3 87
GOV-4: Business ethics and transparency - Transparency of payments to host governments
C1, C2, C4, A4 82-86
C3 82-85
A1 Website
A2, A3 85
GOV-5: Business ethics and transparency - Public advocacy and lobbying
C1, C2 81-87
MODULE 3: CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
CCE-1: Climate strategy and risk - Climate governance and strategy
C1 85
C2, C3, C4 24-27 Climate Report
CCE-2: Climate strategy and risk - Climate risk and opportunities
C1, C2, C3, C4 24-27, 36-37 Annual Report Climate Report
CCE-3: Technology - Lower-carbon technology
C1, C2 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
CCE-4: Emissions - Greenhouse gas emissions
C1, C2, C3, C4, A1, A2, A3 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
CCE-5: Emissions - Methane emissions
C1, C2, A2, A3 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 105
IndicatorsSustainable 
Development 
Report 2021 pageAnnual Report  
2021Climate Report  
2021Other  
Sources Omissions
CCE-6: Energy Use
C1, A2 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
C2 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
CCE-7: Flaring - Flared gas
C1, C2, C4, A1 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
C3 19 Climate Report
C5 24-27, 36-37 Climate Report
MODULE 4: ENVIRONMENT
ENV-1: Water  - Freshwater
C1, C2 36-37
C3, C4, C5 Not reported
ENV-2: Water - Discharge to water
C1 36-37
C2 Not applicable
ENV-3: Biodiversity - Biodiversity policy and strategy
C1, C2, C3, A4 28-35
ENV-4: Biodiversity - Protected and priority areas for biodiversity conservation
C1, C2 28-35
ENV-5: Air emissions - Emissions to air
C1 28-37
C2 28-35
ENV-6: Spills to the environment
C1, C3, C4 91-95
C2 36-37
ENV-7: Material Management
C1, C2 28-37
C3 36-41
ENV-8: Decommissioning
C1, C2, A1, A2 36-37, 38-41 Annual Report Climate Report
MODULE 5: SAFETY, HEALTH AND SECURITY
SHS-1: Workforce protection - Safety, health and security engagement
C1, C2, C3 71-79, 91-95
A1, A2, A3 71-79, 91-95
SHS-2: Workforce protection - Workforce and community health
C1, C2, C3 71-79
SHS-3: Workforce protection - Occupational injury and illness incidents
C1, C2, C3, C4, A1, A2, A3, 
A471-79
SHS-4: Workforce protection - Transport safety
C1, C2, C3 Not applicable
SHS-5: Product health, safety and environmental risk - Product stewardship
C1, C2, C3 Not applicable
SHS-6: Process safety
C1, C2, C3, A1, A4, A5, A6 71-79
SHS-7: Security - Security risk management
C1, C2 91-95
C3 89-90continued
106 Sustainable Development Report 2021IndicatorsSustainable 
Development 
Report 2021 pageAnnual Report  
2021Climate Report  
2021Other  
Sources Omissions
MODULE 6: SOCIAL
SOC-1: Human rights management - Human rights due diligence
C1, C3, C5, A3 68-69
C2 43-52
C4 Not reported
SOC-2: Human rights management - Suppliers and human rights management
C1, C2, A1, A3 68-69
SOC-3: Human rights management - Security and human rights
C1, C2, C3 68-69
SOC-4: Labour practices - Site-based labour practices and worker accommodation
C1, C2, C3 Website
SOC-5: Labour practices - Workforce diversity and inclusion
C1, C3 53-61
C2 62-64
SOC-6: Labour practices - Workforce engagement
C1, C2 53-62, 87
SOC-7: Labour practices - Workforce training and development
C1, C2 53-61
SOC-8: Labour practices - Workforce non-retaliation and grievance mechanisms
C1 53-61
SOC-9: Community engagement - Local community impacts and engagement
C1, C2, C3, A1, A2 43-52
SOC-10: Community engagement - Engagement with Indigenous peoples
C1, A1, A2 43-52
SOC-11: Community engagement - Land acquisition and involuntary resettlement
C1, C2 Not applicable
SOC-12: Community engagement - Community grievance mechanisms
C1, C2 43-52
SOC-13: Community engagement - Social investment
C1, C2, A1, A5 43-52
SOC-14: Local content - Local procurement and supplier development
C1 65-67
SOC-15: Local content - Local hiring practices
C1 53-61continued
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 1072021 SUSTAINABILITY  TOPIC BOUNDARIES 
 This table has been prepared in accordance with GRI 102-46 and GRI 103-1.
Materiality 
classificationTopic Boundary (Relevant stakeholders  
and locations)Sustainable  
Development Report 
2021 pages
Material topicsClimate change resilience and 
transitionWoodside / Areas of activity / Customers / 
Suppliers24-27, 36-37
Health, safety, and wellbeing Woodside / Areas of activity / Employees / 
Contractors / Customers 71-79
Social and cultural impacts on 
communitiesWoodside / Areas of activity / Communities 
/ Non-government organisations43-52
Significant 
topicsCorporate Governance Woodside / Areas of activity / Employees / 
Contractors / Non-government organisations 80-90
Environment and biodiversity Woodside / Areas of activity / Non-
government organisations / Communities28-37
People and culture Employees 53-64
Important 
topicsDecommissioning Woodside / Areas of activity / Non-
government organisations 38-41
Human rights Woodside / Areas of activity / Suppliers / 
Communities / Contractors68-69
Major incident preparedness Woodside / Areas of activity / Employees / 
Contractors / Non-government organisations 
/ Communities91–95
Supply chain and local 
contentWoodside / Areas of activity / Suppliers / 
Employees / Communities65–67
Categories
Woodside Corporate entities
Areas of activity Includes locations where we have a presence in Australia and globally and covers 
exploration, developments, operations and shipping, marketing and trading
Customers Our customers globally
Suppliers Includes all the products or services to Woodside 
Contractors A person or an organisation undertakes a contract to provide a specific skill  
or service to Woodside 
Employees Woodside employees including permanent, fixed term and part time
Non-government organisations Research organisations and other non-government organisations
Communities Locations in Australia and globally where we are active
108 Sustainable Development Report 2021EXTERNAL ASSURANCE STATEMENTS
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 109
www.deloitte.com.au  
 
Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), its global network of member firms, and their re lated entities. DTTL (also referred to as 
“Deloitte Global”) and each of its member firms and their affiliated entities are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL does not provide services to clients. 
Please see www.deloitte.com/about to learn more.  
Deloitte is a leading global provider of audit and assurance, consulting, financial advisory, risk advisory, tax and related services. Our network of member firms in more 
than 150 countries and territories serves four out of five Fortune Global 500®companies. Learn how Deloitte’s approximately 286,000 people make an impact that 
matters at www.deloitte.com . 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation.  
 
Member of Deloitte Asia Pacific Limited and the Deloitte Network.  
 
© 2022 Deloitte Risk Advisory. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu    
  
  
Deloitte Touch e Tohmatsu 
ABN 74 490 121 060  
Grosvenor Place  
225 George Street  
Sydney NSW 2000 
PO Box N250 Grosvenor Place  
Sydney NSW 1220 Australia  
 
Tel:  +61 2 9322 7000 
Fax:  +61 2 9322 7001  
Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors and Management of Woodside Energy Ltd  
 
Conclusion  
We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement on Woodside Energy Ltd’s (‘Woodside’) Selected 
Performance Indicators in the Sustainable Development Report ( ‘Subject Matter Information’) disclosed in 
the 2021 Woodside Sustainable Development Report detailed below for the reporting period 1 January 2021 
to 31 December 2021 or as stated otherwise in the table below.  
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that 
causes us to believe that, the Subject Matter Information is not prepared, in all material respects, in 
accordance with the Reporting Criteria detailed below for the reporting period 1 January 2021 to 31 
December 2021.  
Subject Matter Information and Reporting Criteria  
The Subject Matter Information and Reporting Criteria for our limited assurance engagement for the 
reporting period 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021 is as follows:  
 
Subject Matter Information  Reporting Criteria   
Health and Safety Performance Data in the 2021 Woodside Sustainable 
Development Report : 
- Workforce exposure hours  
- Number of incidents (fatalities, recordable injuries, lost time injury 
events, high potential incidents, recordable occupational illnesses)  
- Frequency rates (Total recordable injury rate, Lost time injury 
rate, High potential incident frequency, Total recordable 
occupational illness frequency)  
- Total recordable injury rate by region  
- Total recordable occupational illness frequency by region  
- Number of l ost days by region and gender  
- Number of recordable injuries by gender  
- Number of recordable o ccupational illness es by gender  
- Training time spent on health and safety by region (hours)  
- Number of p rocess safety events  GRI 403 -9 and  
GRI 403 -10 (2018)   
Environmental performance data in the 2021 Woodside Sustainable 
Development Report : 
- Non-greenhouse gas emissions  
- Refrigerants  
- Water (fresh water use and intensity, Produced formation water) 
- Waste and waste disposal  
- Environmental incidents (Total number of hydrocarbon and non -
hydrocarbon spills  >1 bbl , Total quantity of hydrocarbon and non -
hydrocarbon spills  >1 bbl ) GRI 305 -7 (2016),  
GRI 305 -6 (2016),  
GRI 303 -4, 303- 5 (2018),  
GRI 306 -3, 306- 4 (2020)   
110 Sustainable Development Report 2021 
 
Subject Matter Information  Reporting Criteria   
People data in the 2021 Woodside Sustainable Development Report : 
- Number of staff by gender, employment type, employment 
category, region, age  
- Employees in graduate program (number)  
- Number of contractors  
- Number of employees per category according to Indigen ous 
workforce  
- Employee turnover by gender, region, age group (number)  
- Total hours and average per person hours of training by gender 
(including professional/ management)  
- Total hours and average per person hours of training by employee 
type 
- Percentage of em ployees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviews, by gender (%)  
- Returning from parental leave (%)  GRI 405 -1 (2016),  
GRI 404 -1, 404- 3 (2016)   
The following material topics, as defined, in the GRI Reporting Principles, 
as disclosed in the 2021 Woodside Sustainable Development Report:  
- ‘Climate change resilience and transition’ on pages 2 4-27; 
- ‘Social and cultural impacts on communities’ on pages 43-52; 
- ‘Health, safety and wellbeing’ on pages 71-77. GRI’s Reporting Principles 
for defining report content 
and quality  •  
 
Basis for Conclusion  
We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with Australian Standard on Assurance 
Engagements ASAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information (“ASAE 3000”),  issued by the Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.  
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
conclusion.  
Management’s Responsibilities  
Management is responsible  for: 
a) Ensuring that  the Subject Matter Information  is prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria;  
b) Confirming the measurement or evaluation of the underlying Subject Matter Information  against the 
Reporting Criteria, including that all relevant matters are reflected i n the Subject Matter Information ; 
c) Designing, establishing and maintaining an effective system of internal control over its operations and 
financial reporting, including, without limitation, systems designed to assure achievement of its control 
objectives a nd its compliance with applicable laws and regulations; and  
d) The electronic presentation of the Subject Matter Information  and our limited assurance report on the 
website.  
Our Independence and Quality Control  
We have complied with the independence and other relevant ethical requirements relating to assurance 
engagements, and applied Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and 
Reviews of Financial Reports and Other Financial Information, Other Assurance Engagements and Related 
Services Engagements in undertaking this assurance engagement.  
Assurance Practitioner’s Responsibilities  
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on Woodside Energy Ltd ’s Subject Matter 
Information as evaluated against the Reporting Criteria based on the procedures we have performed and the 
evidence we have obtained. ASAE 3000 requires that we plan and perform our procedures to obtain limited 
assurance about whether, anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject 
Matter Information is not properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting 
Criteria.  
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 111 
 
A limited assurance engagement in accordance with ASAE 3000 involves identifying area s where a material 
misstatement of the Subject Matter Information is likely to arise, addressing the areas identified and 
considering the process used to prepare the Subject Matter Information. A limited assurance engagement is 
substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment 
procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the 
assessed risks.  
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engag ement vary in nature and timing from, and are less 
in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a 
limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had 
a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable 
assurance opinion about whether the Subject Matter Information has been properly prepared, in all material 
respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criter ia. 
Our procedures included: 
• Inquiries with Subject Matter data owners and management  responsible  for the Sustainable 
Development Report to understand and assess the approach for collating, calculating and reporting the 
respective Subject Matter Information across the reporting period ended 31 December 2021  
• Inspection of documents as part of the walk throughs of key systems and processes for collating, 
calculating and reporting the respective Subject Matter Information for the 2021 Woodside Sustai nable 
Development Report  
• Selection on a sample basis of items to test from the selected performance indicators and agree to 
relevant supporting documentation  
• Analytical reviews over material data streams to identify any material anomalies for the Subject M atter 
Information and investigate further where required  
• Agreeing overall data sets for the Subject Matter Information to the final data contained in the 2021 
Woodside Sustainable Development Report.  
Other Information  
Management is  responsible for the othe r information. The other information comprises Woodside’s 2021 
Climate Report for the reporting period 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021 , but does not include the  
Sustainable Development Report Performance Indicators listed above.  
 
Our opinion on the Sub ject Matter Information does not cover the other information and we do not express 
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.  
 
In connection with our engagement, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 
consider whether the oth er information is materially inconsistent with the knowledge obtained during the 
engagement, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informati on, we are required to report that fact. 
We have nothing to report in this regard.   
 
Inherent Limitations  
Because of the inherent limitations of an assurance engagement, together with the inherent limitations of 
any system of internal control there is an u navoidable risk that it is possible that fraud, error, or non -
compliance with laws and regulations, where there has been concealment through collusion, forgery and 
other illegal acts may occur and not be detected, even though the engagement is properly planned and 
performed in accordance with Standards on Assurance Engagements.  
Restricted use 
The applicable criteria used for this engagement was designed for a specific purpose of assisting the 
directors and management in reporting the Subject Matter Information presented in the 2021 Woodside 
Sustainable Development Report,  as a result, the Subject Matter Information may not be suitable for 
another purpose. 
112 Sustainable Development Report 2021 
 
This report has been prep ared for use by directors and management for the purpose of reporting on the 
subject matter information presented in the 2021 Woodside Sustainable Development Report . 
We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report to any person other than the 
directors and management or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared . 
It is our understanding that the Entity intends to electronically present the assured Sustainable 
Development Report and Assurance Report on its in ternet website. Responsibility for the electronic 
presentation of the Sustainable Development Report on the Entity’s website is that of management of the 
Entity. The security and controls over information on the website should be addressed by the Entity to  
maintain the integrity of the data presented. The examination of the controls over the electronic 
presentation of the assured Sustainable Development Report on the Entity’s website is beyond the scope of 
the assurance of the Sustainable Development Report . 
 
 
DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU  
 
Chi Mun Woo  
Partner  
Sydney, 1 6 February 2022  
 
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 113www.deloitte.com.au  
 
Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), its global network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL (also referred to as 
“Deloitte Global”) and each of its member firms and their affiliated entities are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL does not provide s ervices to clients. 
Please see www.deloitte.com/about to learn more.  
Deloitte is a leading global provider of audit and assurance, consulting, financial advisory, risk advisory, tax and related services. Our network of member firms in more 
than 150 countri es and territories serves four out of five Fortune Global 500®companies. Learn how Deloitte’s approximately 286,000 people make an impact that 
matters at www.deloitte.com . 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation.  
 
Member of Deloitte Asia Pacific Limited and the Deloitte Network.  
 
© 2022 Deloitte Risk Advisory. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu    
  
  
Deloitte Touch e Tohmatsu 
ABN 74 490 121 060  
Grosvenor Place  
225 George Street  
Sydney NSW 2000 
PO Box N250 Grosvenor Place  
Sydney NSW 1220 Australia  
 
Tel:  +61 2 9322 7000  
Fax:  +61 2 9322 7001  
 
Independent Assurance Practitioner’s Review Report to the Directors and Management of 
Woodside Energy Ltd  
 
We have reviewed the attached selected financial information of Woodside Energy Ltd (“Woodside”) which 
comprises the Financial Information listed in the table below for the period 1 January 2021 to 31 December 
2021 (“selected financial information”).   
 
SD Report Performance Indicators  
(‘Selected Financial Information’)  Reporting Criteria  
Tax paid  
- Corporate Income Tax  
- Petroleum Resource Rent Tax  
- Federal Royalties  
- Federal Excise  
- Payroll Tax  
- Fringe Benefits Tax  Woodside’s 2021 Sustainable Development 
Reporting Basis of Preparation  
 
Management’s Responsibility for the Selected Financial Information  
Management is responsible for the preparation of the Selected Financial Information and has determined 
that the basis of accounting described in Woodside’s 2021 Sustainable Development Reporting Basis of 
Preparation is appropriate to meet the needs of the directors and management. Management’s responsibility 
also includes such internal control as management determines necessary to enable the preparation of the 
Selected Financial Information that is free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or err or.  
Assurance Practitioner’s Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Selected Financial Information based on our review. We 
have conducted our review in accordance with Auditing Standard on Review Engagements ASRE 2405 
Review of Historical Information Other than a Financial Report.  ASRE 2405 requires us to conclude whether 
anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe  that the 2021 Sustainable Development Report 
is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Woodside’s 2021 Sustainable Development 
Reporting Basis of Preparation . This Standard also requires us to comply with relevant ethical requirements.  
A review in accordance with ASRE 2405 is a limited assurance engagement. The assurance practitioner 
performs procedures, primarily consisting of making enquiries of management and others within the entity, 
as appropriate, and applying analytical procedure s and evaluates the evidence obtained.  
The procedures performed in a review are substantially less than those performed in an audit conducted in 
accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion on the 
Statement.  
 
 
114 Sustainable Development Report 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion   
Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Financial 
Information for the period 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021 is not prepared, in all material respects, in 
accordance with Woodside’s 2021 Sustain able Development Reporting Basis of Preparation . 
Basis of Accounting and Restriction on Distribution and Use  
Without modifying our conclusion, we draw attention to Page 84 of the 2021 Sustainable Development 
report to the Selected Financial Information for the reporting period 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021 , 
which describes the basis of accounting. The Selected Financial Information for the reporting period 1 
January 2021 to 31 December 2021 has been prepared for use by the directors and management of 
Woodside Energy Ltd for the purpose of enabling Woodside to include the review report in their 2021 
Sustainable Development Report. As a result, the Selected Financial Information for the reporting period 1 
January 2021 to 31 December 2021 may not be suitab le for another purpose. Our report is intended solely 
for the directors and management and should not be distributed to or used by parties other than the 
directors and management.  
It is our understanding that Woodside intends to electronically present the assured Sustainable Development 
Report and Assurance Report on its internet website. Responsibility for the electronic presentation of the 
Sustainable Development Report on Woodside’s website is that of management of Woodside. Th e security 
and controls over information on the web site should be addressed by Woodside to maintain the integrity of 
the data presented. The examination of the controls over the electronic presentation of the assured 
Sustainable Development Report on Wood side’s website is beyond the scope of the assurance of the 
Sustainable Development Report.  
 
 
DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU  
 
Chi Mun Woo  
Partner  
Sydney, 16 February 2022  
 
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 115 
 
 
 
  The Power of Commitment  1 
 
Independent Assurance Statement on Woodside Petroleum Ltd’s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Statement – Sustainable Development Report  2021 
To the Management of Woodside Petroleum Ltd (Woodside)  
We have undertaken a reasonable assurance engagement of Woodside’s:  
– Greenhouse gas emissions: total amount of scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions (kt CO 2-e) under 
Woodside’s operational control, total amount of scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions (kt CO 2-e) under Woodside’s 
equity ownership,  total scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions (kt CO 2-e) under Woodside’s equity ownership and 
operational control, Scope 1 emissions intensity (kt CO 2-e/kt) under Woodside’s operational control, and Scope 1 
emissions intensity (in kt CO 2-e/kt and in kt CO 2-e/revenue) under Woodside’s equity ownership  
– Greenhouse gas emissions by gas for carbon dioxide and methane (kt CO 2-e), and methane intensity – volume 
percentage (Sm3/Sm3)  
– Greenhouse gas emissions by source for fuel combustion, flare, venting and other sources, in kt CO 2-e 
– Flared gas  (including and excluding inerts) : Total flaring amounts (tonnes) under Woodside’s operational control, 
total flaring amounts (tonnes) under Woodside’s equity ownership, flaring intensity (t/kt) under Woodside’s 
operational c ontrol, and flaring intensity (t/kt) under Woodside’s equity ownership  
– Fuel Consumption: total fuel consumption (TJ) and fuel intensity (TJ/kt) under Woodside’s equity control, and total 
fuel consumption (TJ) and fuel intensity (TJ/kt) under Woodside’s ope rational control  
– Grid electricity consumption (TJ)  
– Hydrocarbon production: total hydrocarbon production (kt), under Woodside’s operational control, and total 
hydrocarbon production (kt), under Woodside’s equity ownership  
– Revenue ($USm), under Woodside’s  equity ownership (Noting that assurance over any metrics including the 
revenue figure were limited to confirming that the revenue values reported in the SDR , match those reported in the 
annual report . No assurance was provided over the derivation of the r evenue value ). 
for the year ending 31 December 2021 , comprising the totals shown graphically on pages 24-27  of Woodside’s 
Sustainable Development Report and numerically in the supporting data tables  (the subject matter referred to hereafter 
as Woodside’s greenhouse gas (GHG) statement) . A multidisciplinary team including assurance practitioners and 
engineers co nducted this engagement.  
Woodside’s responsibility for subject matter  
Woodside is responsible for preparing the GHG Statement in accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on 
pages 24-27 of the 2021 Sustainable Development Report. This inclu des the design, implementation and maintenance 
of internal control relevant to the preparation of a GHG Statement that is free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error.  
Our independence and quality control  
We have complied with the relevant ethical requirements relating to assurance engagements, which is founded on 
fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional 
behavior. The firm appli ed Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of 
Financial Reports and Other Financial Information, and Other Assurance Engagements, and accordingly GHD 
maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including d ocumented policies and procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.  
Our responsibility  
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the GHG Statement based on evidenc e obtained. We conducted the 
reasonable assurance engagement in accordance with Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3410 
Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (ASAE 3410). This requires that we plan and perform the 
engagement to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the GHG Statement is free from material misstatement.  
A reasonable assurance engagement in accordance with ASAE 3410 involves performing procedures to obtain 
evidence about the quantification of emissions. The natu re, timing and extent of procedures selected depend on the 
assurance practitioner’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, in the GHG Statement. In making those risk assessments, GHD consid ered internal control relevant to 
Woodside’s preparation of the subject matter. A reasonable assurance engagement also includes:  
116 Sustainable Development Report 2021 
  |  Independent Assurance Statement on Woodside Petroleum Ltd’s Greenhouse Gas Statement – Sustainable Development 
Report 2021  2 
 – Assessing the suitability of Woodside’s use of the reporting criteria for the GHG Statement, as the basis for 
preparing the GHG  statement.  
– Evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies used, and the reasonableness of 
estimates made by Woodside.  
– Evaluating the completeness and accuracy of recording, aggregation  and transcription of source data.  
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion . 
Use of our statement  
This statement has been prepared for Woodside in accordance with our engagement terms da ted 21 December 2021. 
GHD disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this statement for any purpose other than that for 
which it was prepared being the reporting on our reasonable assurance audit.  
Our agreed engagement only included the  metrics described in this assurance for the year ended 31 December 2021. 
Accordingly, we have not provided assurance over any other GHG data or statements presented elsewhere or any 
other data or statements contained within Woodside’s Sustainable Developm ent Report 2021.  
Whilst our assurance procedures included reviewing information contained on Woodside’s website at the date of this 
assurance statement, our opinion does not extend to statements, data or information presented therein. It is noted that 
greenhouse gas emissions quantification is subject to inherent  uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge 
used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases.  
Inherent limitations  
There are inherent li mitations in performing assurance —for example, assurance engagements are based on selective 
testing of the information being examined —and because of this, it is possible that fraud or error may occur and not be 
detected. An assurance engagement is not desi gned to detect all misstatements, as an assurance engagement is not 
performed continuously throughout the period that is the subject of the engagement and the procedures are performed 
on a test basis. The opinion expressed in our Independent Assurance Stat ement has been formed on the above basis.  
Further Limitations  
This report has been prepared by GHD for Woodside Petroleum Ltd  and may only be used and relied on by Woodside 
Petroleum Ltd for the purpose  of reporting on the GHG Statement presented in Woodside’s 2021 Sustainable 
Development Report.  
GHD otherwise disclaims responsibility to any person other than Woodside Petroleum Ltd  arising in connection with this 
report. GHD also excludes implied warra nties and conditions, to the extent legally permissible.  
The services undertaken by GHD in connection with preparing this report were limited to those specifically detailed in 
the report and are subject to the scope limitations set out in the report.   
The opinions, conclusions and any recommendations in this report are based on conditions encountered and 
information reviewed at the date of preparation of the report. GHD has no responsibility or obligation to update this 
report to account for events or chang es occurring subsequent to the date that the report was prepared.  
Our opinion  
In our opinion, Woodside’s GHG Statement for the year ended 31 December 2021 on pages 24-27 of Woodside’s 
Sustainable Development Report 2021 and in the supporting data table s has been prepared in accordance with the 
criteria outlined in the statement’s explanatory note s, in all material respects.  
 
Tom Young  
Lead Greenhouse Gas Auditor, RGEA Category 2, GHD Pty Ltd  
7 February  2022 
 
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 117 
 
 
Verification Statement from Business for Societal Impact (formerly LBG)  – 2022 
 
Business for Societal Impact (formerly LBG)  helps businesses improve the measurement, 
management and reporting of their corporate community investment programs. It covers 
the full range of contributions (cash, time and in -kind donations) made to community 
causes.  
 
As managers of Business for Socie tal Impact , we can confirm that we have worked with  
Woodside Energy  to verify its understanding and application of the model with regard s to 
the wide range of community investment programs supported.  
 
Our aim has been to ensure that the evaluation principles have been correctly and 
consistently applied and we are satisfied that this has been achieved. It is important to 
note that our work has not extended to an independent audit of the data.  
 
We can co nfirm that Woodside Energy  has invested the following amounts in  AUD to the 
community  in this 20 22 Business for Societal Impact  reporting year as defined by the 
methodology.   
 
Cash  $ 17,566,73 6 
Time  $ 2,663,291  
In-kind $ 100,950  
Management 
costs  $ 1,694,252  
TOTAL  $ 22,025,229  
 
In addition to verified figures , Woodside Energy  also reported the following outputs in their 
submission:  
 
Leverage**  $ 15,397,31 9 
Revenue 
foregone^  $ 0 
 
**leverage refers to additional third -party contributions facilitated by the company  
^the revenue foregone for community benefit on fees, products and services provided free or discounted  
 
Please refer to Business for Societal Impact  for detailed definitions as required  
 
  
 
Verified by Simon J.  Robinson  
On behal f of Business for Societal Impact   
January 2022  
 
  
 
118 Sustainable Development Report 2021DEFINITIONS AND GLOSSARY
DEFINITIONS AND GLOSSARY
Climate
CO₂-e CO2 equivalent. The universal unit of measurement to indicate the global warming potential of each of the seven 
greenhouse gases, expressed in terms of the global warming potential of one unit of carbon dioxide for 100 years.  
It is used to evaluate releasing (or avoiding releasing) any greenhouse gas against a common basis.1
COP- 26 The 26th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, meeting in 
Glasgow, November 2021.
Equity 
greenhouse gas 
emissionsWoodside sets its Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets on an equity basis. This ensures that the 
scope of its emissions reduction targets is aligned with its economic interest in its investments. Equity emissions reflect 
the greenhouse gas emissions from operations according to Woodside’s share of equity in the operation. Its equity share 
of an operation reflects its economic interest in the operation, which is the extent of rights it has to the risks and rewards 
flowing from the operation.2
Equity (and 
Net equity) 
Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas 
emissionsWoodside sets its Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets on a net equity basis. This ensures that the 
scope of its emissions reduction targets is aligned with the actual footprint of its investments and its expected use of 
offsets. Equity emissions reflect the greenhouse gas emissions from operations according to Woodside’s share of equity 
in the operation. Its equity share of an operation reflects its economic interest in the operation, which is the extent of 
rights it has to the risks and rewards flowing from the operation.2 Woodside has also set its Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions reduction targets on a net basis, allowing for both direct emissions reductions from its operations and 
emissions reductions achieved from the use of offsets. 
FID Final investment decision
GHG or 
Greenhouse gasThe seven greenhouse gases listed in the Kyoto Protocol are: carbon dioxide (CO₂); methane (CH₄); nitrous oxide (N₂O); 
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); nitrogen trifluoride (NF3 ); perfluorocarbons (PFCs); and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6 ).1
IFRS Foundation International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation. For more information see www.ifrs.org
Lower-carbon 
servicesWoodside uses this term to describe technologies, such as CCUS or offsets, that may be capable of reducing the net 
greenhouse gas emissions of our customers.
Net greenhouse 
gas emissionsWoodside has set its Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets on a net basis, allowing for both direct 
emissions reductions from its operations and emissions reductions achieved from the use of offsets. Net greenhouse gas 
emissions are equal to an entity's gross greenhouse gas emissions reduced by the number of retired offsets.
Net equity 
greenhouse gas 
emissionsWoodside's equity share of net greenhouse gas emissions.
Net Zero Net zero emissions are achieved when anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere are balanced by 
anthropogenic removals over a specified period. Where multiple greenhouse gases are involved, the quantification of net 
zero emissions depends on the climate metric chosen to compare emissions of different gases (such as global warming 
potential, global temperature change potential, and others, as well as the chosen time horizon).3
New energy Woodside uses this term to describe energy technologies, such as hydrogen or ammonia, that are emerging in scale but 
which are expected to grow during the energy transition due to having lower greenhouse gas emissions at the point of 
use than conventional fossil fuels.
Offsets Carbon offsets. Avoided greenhouse gas emission, greenhouse gas emission reduction or greenhouse gas removal 
and sequestration made available to another organization in the form of a carbon credit to counterbalance unabated/
residual greenhouse gas emissions.
• Avoidance offsets: Offsets which result in the avoidance of greenhouse gas emissions that would otherwise occur 
without the protective actions implemented to generate the offset, for example, the avoidance of deforestation. 
• Reduction offsets: Offsets that result in a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from an activity that is additional, for 
example, CO2  capture and geological storage. 
• Removal offsets: Offsets based on the withdrawal of greenhouse gas emissions from the atmosphere, for example 
through the use of greenhouse gas sinks or greenhouse gas removal technologies. Removal offsets are important in 
achieving net-zero emissions as they help remove and store residual emissions.4
OGCI Oil and Gas Climate Initiative. For more information see www.ogci.com
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 119Operated and 
non-operatedOil and Gas joint venture participants will typically appoint one company as the Operator, which will hold the contractual 
authority to manage joint venture activities on behalf of the joint venture participants. Where Woodside is the Operator 
of a joint venture in which it holds an equity share, this report refers to that joint venture as being operated. Where 
another company is the Operator of a joint venture in which Woodside holds an equity share, this report refers to that 
joint venture as being non-operated.
Scope 1 
greenhouse gas 
emissionsDirect greenhouse gas emissions. These occur from sources that are owned or controlled by the company, for example, 
emissions from combustion in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc.; emissions from chemical production 
in owned or controlled process equipment.2  Woodside estimates greenhouse gas emissions, energy values and global 
warming potentials in accordance with the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) methodology as 
applicable in FY20-21.
Scope 2 
greenhouse gas 
emissionsElectricity indirect greenhouse gas emissions. Scope 2 accounts for greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of 
purchased electricity consumed by the company. Purchased electricity is defined as electricity that is purchased or 
otherwise brought into the organisational boundary of the company. Scope 2 emissions physically occur at the facility 
where electricity is generated.2  Woodside estimates greenhouse gas emissions, energy values and global warming 
potentials in accordance with the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) methodology as applicable in 
FY20-21.
Scope 3 
greenhouse gas 
emissionsOther indirect greenhouse gas emissions. Scope 3 is an optional reporting category that allows for the treatment of all 
other indirect emissions. Scope 3 emissions are a consequence of the activities of the company, but occur from sources 
not owned or controlled by the company. Some examples of scope 3 activities are extraction and production  
of purchased materials; transportation of purchased fuels; and use of sold products and services.2
Please refer to the data table on page 40 of the Climate Report for further information on the Scope 3 emissions 
categories reported by Woodside.
TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. For more information see www.fsb-tcfd.org/about
Environment
Biodiversity 'Biological diversity' means the variability among living organisms from all sources including, inter alia, terrestrial, marine 
and other aquatic ecosystems and the ecological complexes of which they are a part; this includes diversity within 
species, between species and of ecosystems.5 
Significant 
environmental 
incidentsA significant environmental incident is considered to be an incident that has moderate, medium-term impact on 
ecosystems, species, habitat or physical or biological attributes.
Health and 
Safety
Frequency rates Frequency rates are calculated per million work hours.
Human factors Using what is known about people, organisations and work design to influence performance.
Incident Is one, or more, of the following: an unplanned release of energy that actually resulted in injury, occupational illness, 
environmental harm or damage to assets, a near miss, damage or potential damage to company reputation, breach of 
regulatory compliance and/or legislation, security breach.
Loss of primary 
containment 
(LOPC)An unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from primary containment, including non-toxic and non-
flammable materials (e.g. steam, hot condensate, nitrogen, compressed CO2 or compressed air).
Lost time injury 
(LTI) An LTI is an incident that results in a fatality, disability or time lost from work. The number of LTIs is the sum of these.
Process safety 
event (PSE)
(Tier 1 and Tier 
2)An unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment (LOPC) of any material including non-toxic and non-
flammable materials from a process, or an undesired event or condition. Process safety events are classified as 
Tier 1 – LOPC of greatest consequence or Tier 2 – LOPC of lesser consequence. As defined by American Petroleum 
Institute (API) recommended practice 754.
Total recordable 
injury rate 
(TRIR)The number of recordable injuries (fatalities + lost work day cases + restricted workday cases + medical treatment cases 
+ permanent partial disability) per million work hours.DEFINITIONS AND GLOSSARY continued
120 Sustainable Development Report 2021DEFINITIONS AND GLOSSARY continued
People
Contractors Non-Woodside employees, working within Woodside to support specific activities.
Total employees Total number of employees including permanent, fixed-term and part-time. Does not include secondees or contractors.
Total turnover Permanent and fixed-term employees who left Woodside voluntarily or involuntarily.
Voluntary 
turnoverPermanent and fixed-term employees who left Woodside voluntarily for reasons not initiated by the company.
Social
Leverage The measure of any additional resources contributed to a community organisation or activity that come from sources 
other than the company i.e. joint ventures, employees, government or another corporate organisation.
Philanthropy The cash contributions the company pays in support of a community organisation or projects (i.e. small grants and 
donations) and in-kind contributions of the company’s corporate resources (i.e. IT equipment, used furniture or housing).
Salient Salient human rights risks, are those human rights that are at risk of the most severe negative impacts through a 
company's activities or business relationships.6 
Strategic 
partnershipsStrategic partnerships are more proactive and strategic than philanthropic donations. They centre on a smaller number 
of larger-scale, longer-term partnerships, rather than a donation to a community organisation. These partnerships 
address the social issue(s) that the company has identified as being relevant to both the company and the community 
in which it operates. They are linked to a corporate strategy, are measured, and expected to help protect the long-term 
corporate interests and reputation of the business.
Total social 
contribution 
spend globallySum of strategic partnerships, philanthropy, volunteering and the Woodside Development Fund.
Woodside 
Development 
FundA 10 year A$20m commitment (launched 2014) in support of strategic partnerships that aim to decrease developmental 
vulnerability and improve outcomes for children aged birth to eight years.
Volunteering The cost to the company of the paid working hours contributed by employees to a community organisation or activity 
during paid working time (i.e. team-based volunteering, skills-based volunteering and secondments).
1 See IFRS Foundation 2021: Climate Related Disclosures Prototype. Appendix A.
2 World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development 2004. “GHG Protocol: a corporate accounting and reporting standard”.
3 IPCC, 2018: Annex I: Glossary [Matthews, J.B.R. (ed.)]. In: Global Warming of 1.5°C. An IPCC Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels 
and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways, in the context of strengthening the global response to the threat of climate change, sustainable development, and efforts 
to eradicate poverty [Masson-Delmotte, V., P. Zhai, H.-O. Pörtner, D. Roberts, J. Skea, P.R. Shukla, A. Pirani, W. Moufouma-Okia, C. Péan, R. Pidcock, S. Connors, J.B.R. Matthews, Y. 
Chen, X. Zhou, M.I. Gomis, E. Lonnoy, T. Maycock, M. Tignor, and T. Waterfield (eds.)]. In Press. Page 555.
4  IPIECA 2022. “Net zero emissions: glossary of terms”. https:/ /www.ipieca.org/resources/awareness-briefing/net-zero-emissions-glossary-of-terms/, page 5.
5 Convention on Biological Diversity 1992
6 The Corporate Responsibility To Human Rights: An Interpretive Guide. https:/ /www.ohchr.org/Documents/Publications/HR.PUB.12.2_En.pdf 
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 121AIMS Australian Institute of Marine Science
ALARP As low as reasonably practicable
API American Petroleum Institute
APPEA Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association
ASX Australian Stock Exchange
ATO Australian Taxation Office
Board Woodside’s governing body – the Board of Directors
CCS Carbon capture and storage
CEO Chief Executive Officer
CMI Carbon Market Institute
Code Woodside’s Code of Conduct
CY Calendar Year
eDNA Environmental DNA
EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
ESG Environmental, Social and Governance
Flaring The controlled burning of gas found in oil and gas reservoirs
FPSO Floating, production, storage and offloading
FST Functional support team
FY Financial Year
GRIThe Global Reporting Initiative is a network-based organisation that promotes sustainability reporting worldwide. 
The GRI reporting framework sets out principles and indicators that organisations can use to measure and report 
their environmental, social and governance performance.
HB Handbook Security Risk Management (HB 167:2006)
HSE Health, safety and environment
IETA International Emissions Trading Association
IOGP International Association of Oil and Gas Producers
IPIECAInternational Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association: the global oil and gas industry association 
for environmental and social issues.
ISO International Organization for Standardization.
KBSF King Bay Supply Facility
KGP Karratha Gas Plant
LNG Liquefied natural gas
MAC Murujuga Aboriginal Corporation
NGER National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting 
NPI National Pollutant Inventory
NYFL Ngarluma Yindjibarndi Foundation Limited
P&GC People and global capability
PGP Pluto Gas Plant
RAP Reconciliation Action Plan
SDG United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
S&EM Security and Emergency Management
TRI Total recordable injury
TRIR Total recordable injury rate
UpstreamIndustry term for operations relating to exploring for, developing and producing as well as marketing crude oil and 
natural gas. This includes transporting crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products by pipeline or marine vessel.
VP Vice President
VPSHR Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights
UWA The University of Western Australia
WA Western AustraliaTERMS
122 Sustainable Development Report 2021UNITS
A$ Australian dollars
bbl barrel
CO₂-e carbon dioxide equivalent
kt kilotonne
m3 cubic metre
mmboe million barrels of oil equivalent
mt million tonne
Mtpa million tonne per annum
MW megawatt
MWh megawatt-hours
Sm3 standard cubic metre
t tonne
t CO₂-e tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
TJ terajoule
US$ US dollars
 
Landscape near Karratha.
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd 123
Sustainable Development Report 2021 
Head Office: 
Woodside Petroleum Ltd 
Mia Yellagonga 
11 Mount Street 
Perth WA 6000
Postal Address: 
GPO Box D188 
Perth WA 6840 
Australia
T: +61 8 9348 4000 
F: +61 8 9214 2777 
E: companyinfo@woodside.com.au
Woodside Petroleum Ltd 
ABN 55 004 898 962
woodside.com.au