2019
SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT
REPORT2  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019On the cover
The cover features children from the Woodside Nippers program. 
The program is delivered by Western Australia’s 31 surf life-saving 
clubs and teaches children aged 5–12 years the essentials of surf 
awareness and beach safety. Woodside commenced a new  
A$5 million five-year partnership with Surf Life Saving Western 
Australia in 2019.
About this report
This report provides an overview of Woodside’s sustainability 
approach and performance for the 12-month period ended  
31 December 2019 . Additional information, including data tables, 
is available on our website (woodside.com.au). The report was 
approved by Woodside’s Board of Directors.
Scope
Woodside Petroleum Ltd (ABN 55 004 898 962) is the ultimate 
holding company of the Woodside Group of Companies. In this 
report, unless otherwise stated, references to ‘Woodside’ and ‘the 
company’ refer to Woodside Petroleum Ltd and its controlled 
entities. The information in this report covers all sites and 
production facilities wholly owned by Woodside, and/or operated 
by Woodside in a joint venture.
Health, safety, environment and people performance data is 
reported on a total basis, although environmental performance 
data also includes a Woodside equity share reporting basis. 
Health and safety data includes international exploration activity.
Reporting frameworks
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards core-level reporting and the 
International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 
Association (IPIECA) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary 
Industry Reporting (2015). IPIECA is the global oil and gas 
industry association for environmental and social issues. Refer to 
our website for our GRI and IPIECA content indices.
External assurance
Ernst & Young (EY) has conducted limited assurance over 
selected information in this report and the associated data tables. 
A copy of EY’s assurance statement is available on our website. 
Our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions data is assured by 
GHD and our social investment contributions are assured by 
London Benchmarking Group.Additional information
We have indicated where additional information is available 
online and in other sections of this report like this:
 + Refer to the Glossary section on page 46  for key terms, units  
of measurement and conversion factors.
 + Refer to Woodside’s website for more information  
(woodside.com.au).
We are working with Green ReportsTM  
on an initiative ensuring that communications  
minimise environmental impact and create a  
more sustainable future for the community.
Our Annual Report 2019
Our Annual Report 2019 provides a 
summary of Woodside’s operations, 
activities and financial position as at  
31 December 2019, which should be read in 
conjunction with this Sustainable 
Development Report 2019 to give a full 
overview of Woodside’s business.  Copies  
of the Annual Report 2019 are available  
on request or may be downloaded from  
our website.
Report feedback
We welcome your feedback on our report.  
Email: communities@woodside.com.auWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  3Overview
About us  4
2019 highlights  5
Message from our Sustainability Committee Chair  6
Message from our CEO  7
Economic benefits 8
UN Sustainable Development Goals  9
Materiality  10
Sustainability targets  11
Sustainability performance  12
Corporate governance  13
Our people
Health and safety performance  16
People, capability, inclusion and diversity 18
Social and cultural impacts on communities 20
Human rights 24
Our environment
Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions  26
Environment  30
Major incident preparedness  32
Our approach
Transparency  34
Fraud, anti-bribery and corruption  36
Supply chain and local content  37
Regulatory compliance  38
Our stakeholders  39
Our future
Innovation and technology  42
Cybersecurity  44
Notes and definitions  46
Glossary  46
CONTENTS4  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019ABOUT US
Gas Producing assetsProduct type Phase
Appraisal and exploration Gas or oil Developments Oil
*Denotes marketing officeFocus areasWoodside led the development of the liquefied natural gas (LNG) industry in Australia and is 
applying this same pioneering spirit to solving future energy challenges. 
We have a focused portfolio and are recognised for our world-
class capabilities as an integrated upstream supplier of energy.
In Western Australia, we are creating an integrated LNG 
production hub on the Burrup Peninsula. Building on more than 30 years of operations, we are progressing development of the Burrup Hub to bring the offshore Scarborough and Browse gas resources through our existing assets, the Woodside-operated Pluto LNG and North West Shelf (NWS) Project. We also operate two floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) facilities, the Okha FPSO and Ngujima-Yin FPSO.
Internationally, we are progressing the Sangomar Field 
Development in Senegal and the A-6 Development in Myanmar. And we have equity interests in Canada (Kitimat) and Timor-Leste / Australia (Sunrise).
Technology and innovation are essential to our long-term 
sustainability. We are working to improve our energy efficiency, offset our emissions and explore options for lower-carbon energy. We support the use of LNG as a lower-emissions and economically viable fuel. Today, we are pioneering remote  support and the application of artificial intelligence, embedding advanced analytics across our operations while recognising  digital security issues.
Woodside demonstrates strong safety and environmental 
performance in all its operations. We are committed to upholding our values of integrity, respect, discipline, excellence, working sustainably and working together. Our success is driven by our people, and we aim to attract, develop and retain a diverse,  high-performing workforce.
We recognise that enduring, meaningful relationships with 
communities are fundamental to maintaining our licence to operate. We actively seek to build relationships with stakeholders who are interested in and affected by our activities. We help create stronger communities through programs that improve knowledge, build resilience and create shared opportunities.
Our proven track record and distinctive capabilities are underpinned 
by 65 years of experience, making us a partner of choice.
Singapore*Tokyo*Beijing*
Seoul*CANADA
TIMOR-LESTE / AUSTRALIA AUSTRALIA SENEGALMYANMAR
Refer to page 124 of our Annual Report 2019 for full details of Woodside’s global interests.
Gas Producing assetsProduct type Phase
Appraisal and exploration Gas or oil Developments Oil
*Denotes marketing officeWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  52019 HIGHLIGHTS
0.90
31.83.1%
3.7%
%TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE 
PER MILLION WORK HOURS
FEMALE REPRESENTATION,  
EXCEEDING INDUSTRY AVERAGEENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT 
AGAINST BASELINE1
INDIGENOUS REPRESENTATION 
IN OUR WORKFORCESTRONG SAFETY PERFORMANCE
1.  The energy efficiency improvement target against baseline performance (%) is measured relative to product energy efficiency prior to 2016. This aligns with Woodside’s aim to improve energy 
efficiency by 5% by 2020. Refer to pages 26 and 27 for more information.6  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019MESSAGE FROM OUR  
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE CHAIR
In a world that is changing rapidly, a 
commitment to sustainability involves thinking about the future and ensuring both our existing and planned activities make a positive contribution.
We apply a long-term lens to all our decisions. Our projects 
can span decades and we are always thinking about the future and how our business model is sustainable in an environmental, social and economic sense. 
For our industry, this includes factoring in the major shifts 
underway as the world seeks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while extending access to modern energy.
Natural gas will be a crucial part of the world’s energy mix  
in the decades ahead, supporting the transition to a  
lower-carbon future.
Woodside is preparing to progress the development of  
new natural gas resources, offering a reliable and cleaner 
energy source in countries where there is growing demand  
for modern energy to improve living standards and lift  
people out of poverty.Sustainability is at the core of those growth plans, which make use of existing facilities in northern Western Australia to create new value for our investors, our customers and our communities. 
In all regions where we are active, we understand it is important 
to walk side by side with communities who can share in the benefits. In 2019, we signed new agreements with Aboriginal groups on Western Australia’s Burrup Peninsula, demonstrating our ongoing commitment to the successful co-existence of heritage and industry and our support for long-term, positive outcomes for Indigenous communities.
By progressing our transitioning to a residential workforce in 
the town of Karratha, we are encouraging our people to make this community their home and be part of the social, cultural and sporting networks that sustain it. 
Sustainability is also integral to our daily operations and 
activities across our global portfolio. We prioritise the safety of our people and those who work alongside us, investing in training and preparing them to manage and avoid potential accidents and disruptions to operations.
Our people are our best resources. Without their efforts  
and ingenuity, the hydrocarbon resources stay undeveloped  in the ground.
And finally, sustainability is what guides our strategic thinking 
as our company explores longer-term options, so we can continue to make a contribution as the world targets net zero carbon energy in the future. Our people are applying their ingenuity and experience to this global challenge.
We know that sustainability matters to our investors, communities, 
employees and other stakeholders. It also matters to our Board and, as a committee, we take seriously our responsibility to monitor emerging issues and oversee the company-wide efforts to ensure a sustainable and long-term approach.
Ann Pickard
Chair of the Sustainability Committee
BOARD SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE1
Ann Pickard
Ian Macfarlane
Sarah RyanChristopher Haynes, OBELarry Archibald
Swee Chen Goh
1. As of 1 January 2020.As Woodside enters a growth phase, our commitment  
to sustainability guides us.
We know that it is only through taking a responsible and long-
term approach that we can deliver value for our shareholders and our communities.
This approach informs decision-making at all levels of our 
business. For us, sustainability is a core part of our corporate culture and integral to our daily operations. It’s not an optional extra. It is, quite simply, who we are and how we do things. 
In this report, we explain how sustainability is interwoven through all of Woodside’s activities, shaping our approach, our people, our environment and our future across our global activities.
It’s evident in the economic contribution we make. We help sustain the economy by employing thousands of people and paying our taxes. In addition to paying almost A$900 million in taxes and royalties in Australia in 2018, we contributed millions of dollars to groups that sustain and enrich our communities. Our growth plans ensure this economic and social engagement will continue as our projects create opportunities throughout the value chain.
It’s evident in our commitment to be good stewards of 
the environment. This is our starting point as we pursue environmental approvals for our new projects, with the aim  of managing and minimising our environmental impacts.
We take climate change seriously: we are working hard to 
deliver innovative energy solutions and to manage our own carbon emissions. Companies like ours have a big role to play  in delivering the extra energy that the world needs while enabling the transition to a lower carbon economy. Natural gas, as a cleaner-burning fuel, will be crucial to achieving these global goals. Gas accounts for most of Woodside’s production and our growth portfolio.
Our commitment to sustainability is evident in the long-term 
relationships we forge in our communities, including with Indigenous people. As a company, we are on a journey and find ourselves at a very exciting point, with opportunities ahead.  To realise those opportunities, we need to walk side by side with communities as we deliver our growth plans and the shared benefits that result.
In all our endeavours, we prioritise safety, devoting significant 
time and resources to prepare our staff for potential disruptions to operations and to minimising the risk of their occurrence. The safety of our staff, and of the many contractors and suppliers who work alongside us, is vitally important. 
As a committee, we support the company’s ongoing 
commitment to sustainability. This is crucial to both our daily operations and to the delivery of our growth plans that require responsible environmental management and deep engagement with communities.MESSAGE FROM 
OUR SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE CHAIR 
BOARD SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
Ann Pickard Melinda CilentoChristopher 
Haynes, OBE
Ian Macfarlane Sarah Ryan Larry ArchibaldAnn Pickard
Chair of the Sustainability Committee
4  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2018Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  7MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO
As we progressed our growth plans in 2019, 
we took some steps that are significant for 
our company’s long-term future, guided by 
our commitment to sustainability. 
Safety is always a priority for us and our investment in training 
our people and actively managing risks is paying off. In 2019, 
we achieved our best safety performance on record. It will 
be crucial that this remains a focus as we move into project 
execution phase.
We support the Paris Agreement and its target of global carbon  
neutrality in the second half of this century and are working  
on what role we can play in delivering that. Our aspiration is that 
by 2050 we will be at net zero in relation to all of our  
direct carbon emissions.
To get there requires a multi-pronged effort, including  
offsets, energy efficiency measures and investment in  
lower-carbon technologies.
Natural gas is essential to the global energy transition in 
the decades ahead, providing energy the world needs while 
displacing more carbon-intensive fuels.  
 We need to be as carbon-efficient as possible in developing 
these energy resources.
We are working to improve the energy efficiency of our 
operations by 5% in five years, from 2016 to 2020, and have set 
a new target of 5% for the five years that follow.  
We have also set a target to offset equity reservoir CO2  
across our entire portfolio from 2021, accounting for around  
a third of our total direct emissions over the lifespan of  
our proposed projects.
In 2019, we signed an agreement with Greening Australia to 
undertake large-scale native tree-planting projects to generate 
quality carbon offsets.
We test the resilience of our portfolio against a range of 
scenarios and incorporate a carbon price in our economic 
considerations.
We are also working with our customers and research  
partners to explore the potential for hydrogen, including 
investing in a consortium that is building hydrogen refuelling 
stations in Korea.
In the past year, we took our partnership with Monash  
University to a new level as we look to challenge ourselves and 
harness bright ideas from outside our industry to support the 
energy transition.
Since our company first listed 65 years ago, we have 
contributed billions of dollars to our communities. This social 
and economic contribution is expected to increase as we 
progress our growth plans.
As a company that takes a long-term approach to its projects 
and relationships, sustainability has long been integral to how 
we do business. Our company is guided by strong values, which 
are reflected in our approach to governance and management. 
We now have an executive vice president for sustainability who 
reports directly to me. This recognises its importance across our 
entire company.
The world is changing and our company is changing too as we 
progress sustainable growth.
Peter Coleman
Chief Executive Officer  
and Managing Director8  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019ECONOMIC BENEFITS
We are proud of the economic benefits we continue to generate for our stakeholders.
We maintained our strong record of providing economic benefits in 2019. This includes the dividends paid to shareholders, wages 
paid to employees, the taxes and royalties paid to governments and our contribution to the communities where we are active. 
Our community contribution is provided through employment and contracting opportunities, partnership agreements, employee 
volunteering and direct funding.
1. Converted from USD at the average 2019 exchange rate.9464.417
MILLION IN  
WAGES IN 2019BILLION IN AUSTRALIAN 
TAXES AND ROYALTIES  
OVER FIVE YEARSMILLION IN SOCIAL 
CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2019
A$ A$4.3
BILLION SPENT  
AND COMMITTED WITH 
OUR SUPPLIERS IN 20191A$ A$
OUR ECONOMIC  
CONTRIBUTIONWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  9UN SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) represent a 15-year initiative that commenced in 2016 to stimulate action in 
areas of critical importance for humanity and the planet. The deliverables associated with the five SDGs that best align with our business were progressed in 2019, with notable achievements outlined below. We also conducted a review, which will be completed in 2020, to determine whether these five SDGs represent where we can make the biggest contribution.
SDG ASPIRATIONS
We work together, combining our distinctive capabilities to deliver the best possible result. We aim to be the partner of choice wherever in the world we operate. 
Deliverables Progress
Continue to partner with peers, governments, academia and civil society groups to advance progress towards the goalsOur FutureLab program drives partnerships that foster collaborative innovation across oil and gas technologies, carbon management and facility efficiency in support of the goals
SDG ASPIRATIONS
We will continue to supply LNG to displace coal and support intermittent renewables. We will also support the creation of LNG markets for transport and remote power, and investigate lower-carbon energy sources.
Deliverables Progress
Commence deliveries of trucked LNG from Pluto in 2019 Deliveries of LNG commenced in 2019
For direct emissions, improve energy efficiency by 5% 
against baseline by 2020Improved energy efficiency by 3.1% against baseline  
by 2019
Eliminate routine flaring from our oil facilities by 2030 Reduced flaring by 14% in 2019
SDG ASPIRATIONS
We will continue to improve productivity and energy efficiency by embracing technology and innovation, and incorporating renewables at our assets.
Deliverables Progress
Improve our operations through adoption of more efficient technologies, and improvements in industrial processes, to meet our energy efficiency targetGoodwyn-A offshore platform battery installed, in a world-first application, to reduce use of fuel gas on  
the facility
SDG ASPIRATIONS
We collaborate with partners, peers and other stakeholders for a competitive, lower-carbon economy and support 
initiatives that improve climate change resilience.
Deliverables Progress
Continue to partner with academia and industry to find new technology that unlocks affordable new energy and profitable carbon abatementEstablished a partnership with Monash University in  
2019 to progress energy solutions for a lower-carbon future in Australia
Extended a memorandum of understanding with Korea 
Gas Corporation to conduct a feasibility study on a green hydrogen export project
SDG ASPIRATIONS
We uphold robust environmental management and process safety practices to minimise our impact on marine environments, and partner with research institutions to contribute to knowledge of these areas.
Deliverables Progress
Maintain partnerships with research institutions to contribute to knowledge of marine environments in areas where we are activeWe continue to partner with the Australian Institute of Marine Science and the Western Australian Museum to support research and progress knowledge that informs approvals and impact assessments
10  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019MATERIALITY
1234Woodside considers sustainability topics to be material if they reflect our significant economic, 
environmental and social impacts, or if they significantly influence the assessments and 
decisions of our stakeholders.
Each year, we conduct a materiality assessment to identify and 
understand the sustainability topics of significance to our key 
stakeholders and our business. The materiality assessment informs 
the development of this report and ensures we are adequately 
responding to topics considered key by our stakeholders.
Of the topics identified in the 2019 materiality assessment, three 
were considered material: climate change and greenhouse gas 
emissions; health and safety performance; and social and cultural 
impacts on communities.
We added another classification in 2019 to reflect topics that are 
significant to Woodside but did not meet the materiality threshold. Four topics met these criteria in 2019 for the reasons  
outlined below: 
 +   Corporate governance: Ensuring a sustainable financial 
position and ethical conduct as we enter a growth phase
 +  Cybersecurity: Maintaining the security of our assets  
and information 
 +   Fraud, anti-bribery and corruption: Effectively managing the 
risk of violations in our global operations
 +   Major incident prevention and preparedness: Ongoing focus 
on process safety and the ability to respond in the event of a 
major incident.
1.  Material topics are identified by a desktop study, followed by interviews with key internal and external stakeholders.
2.  A materiality survey, to rank identified topics, is completed by all interviewed stakeholders using criteria based on the  
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) materiality principles.
3. Material topics are validated by our Executive Committee and the Board’s Sustainability Committee.
4.  The material topics are reviewed with our stakeholders, and ways in which our approach and performance can  
be improved are identified.IMPORTANT TOPICSMATERIAL TOPICS
•  Climate change and greenhouse 
gas emissions•  Health and safety performance •  Social and cultural impacts on 
communities
• Economic benefits
• Environment
• Future energy mix
• Growth readiness• Human rights
• Innovation and technology
•  People, capability, diversity and 
inclusion• Regulatory compliance
• Supply chain and local content
• TransparencySIGNIFICANT TOPICS
•  Major incident prevention and 
preparedness• Corporate governance
• Cybersecurity•  Fraud, anti-bribery and  
corruption
IDENTIFY PRIORITISE
FOUR-STEP PROCESS FOR MATERIALITYVALIDATE REVIEWWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  11SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS
We assign annual targets to our material sustainability topics to ensure we focus on what matters and strive to do better. These 
sustainability targets are reflected in our corporate scorecard, Executive Committee dashboard, and divisional and functional 
performance agreements.
1.  The energy efficiency improvement target against baseline performance (%) is measured relative to product energy efficiency prior to 2016. This aligns with Woodside’s aim to improve energy 
efficiency by 5% by 2020. Refer to pages 26 and 27  for more information.MATERIAL TOPIC 2019 TARGET 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 TARGET
Health and safety
performanceDemonstrate continuous
improvement on 2018 to
deliver leading health and
safety performance0.90 total recordable 
injuries per million work 
hours (TRIR)TRIR at or below 1.10,  
which is below our three-
year rolling average
One or fewer Tier 1 or
Tier 2 loss of primary 
containment process  
safety events
Social and cultural 
impacts on communitiesSocial impact management
plans for communities
where we are active
Positive progress
against our 2016–2020
Reconciliation Action PlanSocial impact management 
plans were developed for 
all communities where we 
are active
Increased conversion of 
Indigenous trainees to 
employees to over 50%Effectively implement 
social impact and 
opportunity management 
plans for communities 
where we are active
Deliver the 2016–2020 
Reconciliation Action Plan
Climate change and
greenhouse gas 
emissionsAchieve 4% energy
efficiency improvement
against baseline1Achieved 3.1% energy
efficiency improvement
against baseline1Achieve 5% energy
efficiency improvement
against baseline1
Fraud, anti-bribery
and corruptionZero material violations  
of anti-bribery and 
corruption laws within or in
connection with WoodsideZero violations of
anti-bribery and
corruption laws within
or in connection with
WoodsideTopic remains significant 
and we maintain an internal 
target of zero violations12  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
We respond to a number of recognised external environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
global indices to benchmark our sustainability performance against best practice. 
GLOBAL BENCHMARKS
1.  2019 MSCI results are published in May 2020.
2. 2019 Sustainalytics results are published in May 2020.MSCI
We have been rated by Morgan Stanley 
Capital International (MSCI) since 2011 
when we achieved an A rating. We 
continue to maintain a AAA rating with 
this index.Rating: AAA, top decile 
in our industry group
Industry average: BBB
Rating AAA AAA AAA N/A1AAAAAA
AAA
AAA
AAA
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Sustainalytics
We have participated in Systainalytics 
ESG research since 2016. Our most 
recent results achieved Outperformer 
status, the second-highest ranking 
available.
Score
Percentile 86 N/A28875 N/A27775
77
2017 2019 2018Dow Jones Sustainability Index
We have participated in this index since 2002. 
We have maintained membership of the 
World Index, Asia Pacific Index and Australia 
Index. We maintained leader group status for 
our sector in the Sustainability Yearbook.Score: 76/100, 94th 
percentile in our industry 
group
Industry average: 42/100
Score
Percentile 88 95 97 93 9480 79 71 76 73
8873
9580
9779
93
9471
76
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
FTSE4Good
For the fifth year we achieved inclusion 
in this index. Our ESG rating was an 
absolute score of 4.0 out of 5.Score: 4.0/5. 91st 
percentile in our 
industry group
Industry average: 2.5/5
Score
Percentile 86 93 90 97 913.6 3.8 4.1 4.0 3.4
3.4
3.6
3.8
4.1
4.0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Score: 77/100, 88th 
percentile in our 
industry group
Industry average: 61/100Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  13CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Woodside is committed to a high level of corporate governance and fostering a culture that 
values ethical behaviour, integrity and respect. 
Our approach
We believe that adopting and operating in accordance with 
high standards of corporate governance and transparency are 
essential for sustainable long-term performance and value 
creation. Our approach to sustainability is incorporated in our 
management system including our policies, procedures and Code 
of Conduct (the Code).
Woodside’s Board of Directors has oversight of the Company’s 
management and business activities. The Sustainability 
Committee assists the Board to meet its responsibilities in 
relation to the Company’s sustainability policies, expectations 
and procedures. The Sustainability Committee, as at 31 December 
2019, comprised five independent, non-executive directors. In 
early December we announced that the Board had appointed  
Ms Swee Chen Goh as a non-executive director from 1 January 
2020. Ms Goh will be a member of the Sustainability Committee 
from this date.
In 2019, the Board expanded the scope of the Nominations 
Committee to incorporate corporate governance functions. The 
newly expanded Nominations & Governance Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities on matters relating to 
the Company’s corporate governance policies and practices. The 
Chairman also chairs the Nominations & Governance Committee 
and all non-executive directors are currently members.
  Refer to Woodside’s Corporate Governance Statement on our 
website for more information
The Woodside Management System describes our way of 
working, enabling us to understand and manage our business 
to achieve objectives. It defines the boundaries within which our 
employees and contractors are expected to work and establishes 
a common approach to how we operate, wherever the location. 
Woodside’s Compass is core to our governance framework and 
is available on our website. It sets out our mission, vision and 
strategic direction and core values of integrity, respect, working 
sustainably, working together, discipline and excellence. The 
Compass is the overarching guide for everyone who works for us. 
Our values define what is important to us in the way we work.SIGNIFICANT TOPIC
We have overcome some incredible 
challenges to be where we are today. Now, we draw on that pioneering spirit 
as we embrace the opportunities ahead.
We are an Australian company with a global outlook, 
resilient, determined and courageous. We believe 
that by doing what’s right, by living our values every 
day, we can perform to our very best.
RESPECT
We give everyone a fair go.  
We listen.
DISCIPLINE
We play by the rules. We set goals 
and we hold ourselves to account.
WORKING 
SUSTAINABLY
We are here for the long term. 
We look after each other, 
our communities and the 
environment. We keep each 
other safe.WORKING TOGETHER
We are on the same team.  
We build long-term partnerships.
INTEGRITY
We are open, honest and fair.  
We do what we say we will do. 
EXCELLENCE
We achieve great results.  
We learn. We get better.  
We have the courage to  
do the right thing.WE INNOVATE
We seek ways to continuously 
improve, always striving for 
better outcomes. We are 
solution-focused, exploring 
fresh ideas and embracing 
new ways of working.
WE COLLABORATE
We work together, combining 
our distinctive capabilities 
to deliver the best possible 
result. We aim to be the 
partner of choice wherever  
in the world we operate.WE ACCELERATE
We take decisive action 
in line with our business 
priorities and our values. We 
are agile, acting swiftly to 
achieve outstanding results.We are motivated to build on Woodside’s reputation 
as a highly regarded and successful company. We 
are inclusive and cohesive, working as a team to 
sharpen our competitive edge and drive progress. 
OUR MISSION
To deliver superior 
shareholder returns.
OUR VISION
Our aim is to be a global 
leader in upstream oil  
and gas.OUR STRATEGIC 
DIRECTION
Maintain unwavering focus 
on maximising our base 
business, building the value 
of our portfolio and growing 
our market.We strive for outstanding results, 
clear on our aims and dynamic  
in our approach .WHO  
WE AREHOW WE WILL  
GET THEREWHERE  
WE’RE GOING14  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019Identifying and managing risk
Woodside recognises that risk is inherent to our business and 
that effective management of risk is vital to delivering on our 
objectives, success and continued growth. We are committed 
to managing all risk in a proactive and effective manner and 
encouraging behaviours required to maintain a sound risk culture, 
including constructive challenge and transparency and effective 
management of conflicts of interest. Our approach to risk 
enhances opportunities, reduces threats and sustains Woodside’s 
competitive advantage. 
By understanding and managing our risks, our business can 
perform effectively and provide protection to our people, 
communities and the environment. We systematically assess 
the consequence of risk in areas such as health and safety, 
environment, and social and cultural impacts. It is crucial that we 
maintain a robust and disciplined focus on operational excellence 
and effective risk management.
The Board recognises that risk management and internal 
compliance and control are key elements of good corporate 
governance. The Board is responsible for reviewing and 
approving our risk management strategy, policy and key risk 
parameters, including determining appetite for country risk and 
major investment decisions.
The Board is also responsible for satisfying itself that 
management has developed and implemented a sound system of 
risk management and internal control. The Board has delegated 
oversight of the Risk Management Policy, including review of the 
effectiveness of our internal control system and risk management 
process, to the Audit & Risk Committee. In 2019, the Audit & 
Risk Committee considered contemporary and emerging risks, 
reviewed the Risk Management Framework and confirmed that 
we were operating with due regard to the risk appetite as set by 
the Board.
The Board maintained oversight of material topics during 2019, 
and monitored contemporary and emerging issues and risks, 
including conduct risk, technology and innovation, cybersecurity, 
privacy and data breaches, sustainability and climate change.
  Refer to page 10 for more information on the materiality 
process and 2019 material topics.
  Refer to our Corporate Governance Statement for more 
information on Woodside’s key governance and  
risk-management principles and practices.Business ethics
Woodside is committed to conducting business in an ethical 
manner, and this commitment underpins the Code. In 2019, we 
updated our expectations regarding discrimination, bullying and 
harassment, the storage and handling of Woodside information 
and recording of transactions.
The Code forms part of mandatory induction training for 
all employees when they join the company and it is the 
responsibility of every director, employee and contractor to  
be familiar and comply with the Code. Annual compliance 
training is required and there was a 100% employee  
completion rate in 2019. Records of training are maintained  
by Woodside’s General Counsel.
It is a requirement of all directors, employees and contractors to 
report potential violations of the Code. All breaches are recorded 
and investigated, and the outcomes reported to the Board. 
Appropriate disciplinary action is undertaken if violations are 
substantiated, including termination of employment.
In 2019, new Australian legislation was introduced regarding 
whistleblower protection. A review of our Code and the 
Whistleblower Policy was completed, and enhancements to 
the existing whistleblower arrangements were implemented. 
Employees and other relevant stakeholders can report 
misconduct concerns anonymously, either internally or by 
accessing the confidential, externally managed helpline. There 
were eight  reports to the helpline in 2019. 
The assessment and investigation of misconduct concerns are 
coordinated by a senior management steering group. In addition, 
the Audit & Risk Committee received reports on misconduct 
investigations, breaches of the Code and matters reported to the 
external helpline. 
Investigations of 113 allegations of improper behaviour or 
breaches of the Code were closed out in 2019. Forty-two 
allegations were substantiated and 71 were unsubstantiated.  
A further 27 allegations remain under investigation at year end. 
Outcomes for the employees and contractors responsible for 
the substantiated breaches include six contracts being either 
terminated or not renewed, 20 written warnings and nine verbal 
warnings. One termination was fraud-related.CORPORATE GOVERNANCEWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  15
 OUR PEOPLEProtecting the health and safety (H&S) of our people, our contractors and our host 
communities is essential to our future success. 
Our performance
Woodside achieved a strong safety performance in 2019, 
evidenced by our lowest TRIR of 0.90, well below our target 
of 1.29, supporting our aim to continuously improve towards 
industry-leading H&S performance. 
Our identification of high-potential hazards decreased by 30% 
and our high-potential incidents increased by more than 170%. To 
address this, we conducted a comprehensive review of our high-
potential events from 2014 to 2019 and have developed plans to 
deal with key themes in 2020, including change management 
and preventing dropped objects.
We continue to promote positive practices and provide support 
services to enhance employee wellbeing. We aim to effectively 
manage workplace risks to mental health, support early 
intervention and recovery, and develop leadership capabilities  
to create a mentally healthy workplace. 
We continue to collaborate with our contractors to develop and 
implement innovative solutions for improving H&S performance 
to ensure we are prepared for the increase in work programs 
associated with our growth projects.Greater Enfield Project: working as one
Almost 12 months of work came to a successful conclusion in 
April 2019 when the Ngujima-Yin FPSO facility sailed out of 
Keppel Tuas shipyard in Singapore.
The Ngujima-Yin was refurbished without a recordable injury or 
illness and a strong safety culture embedded across the project 
team was key to this success. 
16  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019MATERIAL TOPIC
HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Lost time injuries (LTI) and LTIF
Employee LTI
Contractor LTI
Woodside LTIF
0.430.280.61
0.29
0.193
4
238
15 18 19 16 171
3 1 1 1 0Total recordable injuries (TRI) and TRIR
Employee TRI
Contractor TRI
Woodside TRIR1.71
1.64
1.29 1.32
0.901621
1117
12
15 18 19 16 178 2 3 6 5 + Lowest total recordable injury rate (TRIR) on record of 
0.90 and lost time injury frequency (LTIF) of 0.19
 + Zero recordable injuries or illnesses from the Greater 
Enfield Project shipyard campaign
 + Engaged employees and contractors in the ‘We Stand 
Together for a Perfect HSE Day’ initiative through team-
based and organisation-wide H&S activities globally2019 Highlights
OPPORTUNITIES RISKS
 + Undertake safety perception 
survey to identify changes to 
our safety culture 
 + Strengthen H&S leadership 
capability across the business, 
including leading our 
contractors and suppliers
 + Continue to implement 
a holistic approach to 
supporting the wellbeing of 
our people + Failure to maintain a healthy 
and safe workplace
 + Failure to engage with our 
contractors and suppliers to 
improve H&S outcomes
 + Failure to deliver a mature 
safety culture with our 
employees
Woodside and Keppel Tuas shipyard staff at the Ngujima-Yin sailaway 
ceremony in Singapore.Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  17Our safety culture
We strongly believe in embedding a safety culture where our 
people are empowered to take action to prevent injuries and 
maintain a safe working environment. In 2019, our teams focused 
on H&S leadership, off-the-job safety and mental wellbeing. 
During the year we worked to embed our core H&S frameworks 
and tools across our business to support sustainable performance, 
including the Golden Safety Rules and Our Safety Culture. 
Through the annual ‘We Stand Together for a Perfect HSE Day’ 
initiative, we engaged our people and contractors in all aspects of 
our H&S framework, with team-based activities hosted globally 
and 23 organisation-wide events featuring internal and external 
experts. 
We collaborated with contractors and industry partners through 
the Safer Together initiative to continuously improve and support 
our growth. After the successful implementation of the Health, 
Safety and Environment Representative (HSER) framework 
we worked with Safer Together to introduce this framework 
to industry partners. This framework provides standardised 
requirements for the HSER role and shares best practice in 
workforce engagement.
In our office-based teams, the Woodside Workplaces, Wellness 
and Wellbeing (4W) network builds safety understanding 
and awareness. Over 100 volunteers engage the business in 
H&S through information sharing and promoting activities to 
strengthen safety culture. We also extended engagement to our 
employees’ families through activities aimed at taking health, 
safety and environment initiatives home.
Mental health and wellbeing 
A trusting, safe work culture is fundamental to the wellbeing of 
our people and our safety performance. 
In 2019, we worked to build understanding of mental health 
through awareness activities and training opportunities. More 
than 600 people attended resilience training and 34 Supporting 
Mental Health and Wellbeing at Work training sessions were held. 
In 2020, we will continue to implement a holistic approach to 
supporting the wellbeing of our people informed by research and 
best practice. 
Process safety
Process safety describes a framework for managing the  
integrity of facilities through disciplined application of  
systems and processes. 
We regularly review our facility designs to proactively identify 
risks. We apply rigorous inspection and maintenance schedules 
to identify risks and manage the integrity of our structures, 
equipment, piping and wells to prevent a loss of containment or 
hydrocarbon release.We continue to take a risk-based approach to embed process 
safety in our operations, through operational discipline and 
visible leadership. Our process safety–competency governance 
and training program ensures our people have the right skills to 
manage process safety risks. 
In 2019, we aligned our process safety framework within the 
company-wide management system to ensure consistent 
delivery across our operations and projects.
Process safety performance
During 2019, we had zero Tier 1 and zero Tier 2 loss of primary 
containment process safety events as measured against 
the industry standard of the American Petroleum Institute 
Recommended Practice 754 (API 754).  
Preventing process safety events
Our people operating our facilities are key to prevention and 
mitigation of process safety events. To provide additional 
focused guidance to this group, we developed a suite of process 
safety operator practices to support verification and leadership 
engagement on topics including handover, critical operating 
procedures, critical alarms and fitness for work. A high level of 
engagement was achieved through a face-to-face roll-out of the 
practices at operator training days and inclusion in pocketbooks 
for ease of reference in the field. 
Analysis of the past three years of process safety–related events 
showed that following these new practices could have prevented 
90% of actual events.
Tier 1 and 2 loss of primary containment process safety events  
 (LOPC PSE)
Tier 1 LOPC PSE
Tier 2 LOPC PSE2 1
0
15 16 17 18 1901
1 1 018  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019PEOPLE, CAPABILITY,  
INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY
We recognise that an engaged and enabled workforce underpins our ability to deliver base 
business activities and pursue our growth projects. A healthy workplace that promotes 
diversity and a sense of belonging is a key contributor to our success. 
Our performance
In 2019, our overall workforce grew to 3,834 people, an increase 
of 8% from 2018. Our voluntary turnover rate reduced from 3.5% 
in 2018 to a historically low 3% in 2019. 
As we embark on growth, we recognise the importance of 
investing in our people, so they have the right skills and are 
supported by an inclusive and collaborative workplace culture. 
Woodside conducts an employee survey every two years to 
measure employee engagement and enablement. Engagement 
reflects employees’ commitment and enthusiasm for their work. 
Enablement is the degree to which employees are suited to 
their role and the barriers present in their work environment. In 
2019, 81% of our workforce completed the survey. Of those who 
responded, 74% felt engaged and 66% felt enabled. These results 
are consistent with our 2017 survey results. 
To better understand how we can move closer to meeting 
our aim of being a global leader in both engagement and 
enablement, extra questions were added to the 2019 survey. 
These additions set a higher standsard for both measures and 
will become our new benchmark. The overall survey results show 
that our people are pr oud to work for the organisation, see clear 
opportunities for career advancement and care for their physical and mental wellbeing. There remains opportunity for greater  
enablement of employees through more effective decision 
making and a greater focus on performance feedback.
80
70
60
5066
637074 74
2011 2013
Engagement Enablement2015 2017 201965
6366 66 66Employee engagement and enablement1
Karratha workforce
In Dece mber 2018, we announced that our people in Karratha 
would transition to a predominantly residential workforce 
model, enabling our people to live where they work and build 
strong team and community connections. In 2019, the transition 
commenced, which included engagement of our employees  
and announcing our Karratha home ownership portal, allowing 
our employees to purchase Woodside homes. In addition,  
we are continuing the A$55 million refurbishment of  
NWS residential properties.
A targeted recruitment campaign was launched to continue 
to build our residential workforce to support our Burrup Hub 
developments. We have leveraged this campaign to positively 
shift the diversity of our workforce. The 2019 intake of  
externally hired trainees and apprentices in Karratha was 100% 
residential, 42% Indigenous and 45% female. Over the coming 
years, we will endeavour to continue employee engagement to 
increase our residential footprint in the Pilbara .
Inclusion and diversity 
Woodside recognises that an inclusive work culture, where 
employees feel valued and respected and possess a sense of 
belonging, is a key contributor to our success. We share diversity 
and inclusion metrics with our executives and senior leaders 
monthly, highlighting progress and driving accountability. 
Inclusion and diversity highlights included attaining formal 
accreditation from the Australian Breastfeeding Association and 
winning its Best Practice Award in 2019. We were also awarded 
Silver Employer Status in the Pride in Diversity Australian 
Workplace Equality Index, which typically represents employers 
ranked in the top 10–20% of the index. We continue to see an 
increase in membership of our employee diversity networks. 2019 Highlights
 + Commenced transition to a predominantly residential 
operational workforce in Karratha 
 + Increased female workforce representation well beyond 
the industry average
 + Introduced impactful cultural awareness training and 
increased Indigenous participation in traineeships and 
apprenticeships
 + Embedded technical discipline opportunities to further 
support career development
 + Increase Indigenous participation 
 + Prepare our workforce for organisational growth 
opportunities
 + Develop inclusion and diversity strategies for 2021 
onwards, including a broader definition of inclusion
 + Continue transition to a predominantly residential 
operational workforce in Karratha2020 Priorities
1. Data shown for 2019 is consistent with 2017 methodology.Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  19Membership of Gender Equality Matters increased by 16%, 
Woodside Reconciliation Community by 14% and our LGBTI 
network Spectrum by 23%.
Our Indigenous collegiate was instrumental in the development 
of a new cultural learning course that was introduced in 
mid-2019. The impactful course has been designed to widen 
perspectives on Indigenous cultures and people and to combat 
unconscious bias through a genuine, raw style of storytelling. 
Indigenous participation
Our directly employed Indigenous workforce increased from  
130 in 2018, to 140 in 2019, or 3.7% of the total workforce. 
Indigenous turnover was 3.0% in 2019, in line with the total 
workforce figure. The growth of our Indigenous workforce is due 
to the success of our pathway programs, external recruitment 
drive, graduate intake and continued engagement.
Indigenous participation in our pathway programs, such as 
traineeships and apprenticeships, continues to exceed targets. 
We had 47 participants in 2019. The strength of these programs 
has continued to grow with 80% of eligible participants gaining 
direct employment with Woodside this year. To support our 
Indigenous employees’ future growth and career development, 
86% undertook training and development opportunities in 2019. 
We continue to focus on increasing Indigenous representation 
in mid-level and senior positions. We supported 39 employees 
to attend leadership development courses in 2019 and are 
supporting two individuals to commence study towards a Master 
of Business Administration in 2020.
We continue to facilitate strong relationships with Indigenous 
communities through secondments of our people to support 
a range of Indigenous partner organisations around Australia. 
Since 2011, we have sent 60 employees on Jawun secondments, 
in addition to 21 Jawun executive visits. In 2019, ten employees 
completed Jawun secondments.Capability 
Woodside continues to focus on growing our own future leaders 
and building capability by providing all employees with high-
quality learning experiences and development opportunities. In 
2019, we introduced technical competencies to further support 
career development and technical skills development.
The Graduate Development Program continues to attract 
and retain high-calibre people. In 2019, 293 graduates were 
engaged on the program, an increase from 282 in 2018. We 
were finalists for the Australian Human Resources Institute’s Sir 
Ken Robinson Innovation and Creativity Award for our graduate 
learning program. This is an immersive two-week program where 
graduates come together in multidisciplinary working groups to 
identify solutions to business challenges.
Participation in our leadership development courses throughout 
the year increased by 12%, with high demand for training in team 
effectiveness, everyday leadership skills and building resilience. 
Gender balance
Gender diversity in the workplace is a priority for us. Since the three-year inclusion and gender diversity strategy commenced in 2018, 
company-wide female representation has continued to increase. Female representation increased from 30.4% in 2018 to 31.8% in 2019, 
higher than the industry average of 23.9%. In 2019, the return from parental leave was 97%.
Female representation% of female representation
28.2
28.4
29.0
30.4
31.8
Company-wide1516171819
12.8
19.6
23.9
24.4
23.4
Executives1516171819
13.8
15.9
17.6
19.3
Senior1516171819
28.8
29.4
28.6
30.5
32.221.1
Mid-level1516171819
40.9
50.0
50.0
51.0
52.0
Graduate1516171819
20  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019Woodside plays an active role in contributing to the wellbeing and sustainability of the 
communities where we are active.
 
Our approach
Our Sustainable Communities Policy guides our interactions 
with communities where our activities are under Woodside 
operational control. 
Where we are not the operator, we endeavour to confirm 
alignment with our policy by undertaking due diligence for new 
opportunities and reviewing assessments conducted by the 
operator on behalf of the joint venture.
We conduct social impact and opportunities assessments for 
our operations and all major development activities and these 
are used to inform management plans to minimise any adverse 
impacts and enhance opportunities. Meaningful engagement
Woodside continues to build and maintain relationships that 
allow us to have open conversations with the communities 
where we are active. In support of this, in 2019 we hosted four 
Community Liaison Group meetings in Karratha and participated 
in three joint-operator Exmouth Oil and Gas Community 
Reference Group meetings.
We also held several community events in Broome, Karratha 
and Roebourne, including supplier forums, community 
information sessions and business functions. We completed 
more than 500 community engagements as part of our social 
impact assessments and in support of environmental impact 
assessments for the Browse and Scarborough developments, 
and the NWS Extension. These engagements enabled us to 
update the community about our operational and proposed 
development activities, identify opportunities of mutual benefit 
and understand any community concerns.
Internationally, we hosted 38 community meetings in Senegal 
for our Sangomar Development seismic campaigns. We also 
engaged regularly with the fishing community during the seismic 
campaigns through social media channels. These engagements 
helped to increase community understanding of oil and gas 
activities, which are new to the country.
In Myanmar, we held six stakeholder engagements for our 
exploration activities and participated in the Myanmar Centre 
for Responsible Business’s community workshop in Rakhine 
State. Woodside played a key role in the community workshop, 
presenting on our activities in Myanmar and discussing  
how operators can best create positive impacts at different 
project stages. 
Effectively addressing community concerns
We take community concerns about our activities seriously.  
Our community grievance mechanism provides a framework  
for receiving and responding to grievances in a consistent,  
timely way. 
We received four community grievances in 2019, relating to 
employment and contracting opportunities in Karratha and a 
change of Woodside personnel in Roebourne. These concerns 
were discussed with the relevant community members. 
During the year, we worked with the lead contractor for 
our proposed Pluto Train 2 project to develop a grievance 
management plan for future activities. We also enhanced our 
grievance register to better record community concerns.SOCIAL AND CULTURAL IMPACTS
ON COMMUNITIESMATERIAL TOPIC
2019 Highlights
 + Completed a suite of social impact and opportunities 
assessments for our operations and Burrup Hub developments 
 + Management plans developed for all communities where  
we are active
 + Signed new agreements with Pilbara Aboriginal groups
 + Launched a major partnership with Surf Life Saving  
Western Australia to support the state-wide Woodside 
Nippers program
OPPORTUNITIES RISKS
 + Streamline engagements 
with community 
stakeholders for multiple 
projects 
 + Adjust social impact 
management plan 
implementation
 + Enhance local employment 
and contracting 
opportunities
 + Build community capacity  
to benefit from growth 
projects + Level of community 
consultation and stakeholder 
fatigue 
 + Failure to appropriately 
manage the social impacts 
and not realise the 
opportunities of our activities
 + Not achieving the desired 
outcomes from our social 
contributions
 + Impacts on cultural heritage 
and traditions of Indigenous 
communities Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  21Understanding and managing our impacts
In 2019, a specialist consultant completed social impact 
assessments for current operations off the Exmouth coast, 
Karratha and our Burrup Hub developments. These included 
Scarborough, Pluto Train 2, Browse and the NWS Extension. This 
involved more than 12 months of work with relevant communities 
to understand the potential direct and indirect social effects of 
these developments. 
These studies also identified key opportunities for economic 
development of local business and employment opportunities. 
Potential adverse impacts include reduced housing and short-
term accommodation availability in Karratha and impacts on 
cultural heritage and relationships. Management plans have been 
developed to enhance the social opportunities and minimise 
adverse impacts from these future developments. 
We conducted community perception surveys for Karratha and 
Roebourne that showed the majority of respondents feel we 
continue to have a positive impact on the local area and we  
are improving how we manage potential social and 
environmental issues. Community sentiment highlighted in  
the surveys included a desire for more local employment 
opportunities, and concerns about levels of fly-in fly-out in  
the workforce and the environment. 
We continue to work closely with local stakeholders to monitor 
community indicators, understand local issues and limit any 
potential negative impacts related to our projects.
Woodside’s Environment and Social Impact Assessment for the 
Sangomar Development was approved by the Government of Senegal in January 2019. During the year, we also undertook a 
social scan and human rights risk assessment for the Sangomar 
Development to inform our future activities. 
    Refer to our website for more information on Woodside’s 
environment and social impact assessments.
Enhancing local opportunities
We continue our efforts to enhance local training and 
employment initiatives in the communities where we are active. 
Since its launch in June 2018, more than 1,500 people have 
registered on the Woodside-sponsored Karratha local jobs portal, 
which has advertised over 500 jobs and training opportunities at 
Woodside-operated sites.
At our Production Training Academy in Karratha, all 58 new 
apprentices and trainees recruited in 2019 were  City of Karratha 
residents.
During the year, we also commenced transitioning our workforce 
in Karratha to a predominantly residential model.
We continue our efforts to build oil and gas knowledge and 
capability in Senegal with the development of a capacity-building 
plan that has been submitted to the Government of Senegal.  
We also hosted an oil spill preparedness and response workshop 
for the government.
    Refer to page 18 for more information on the Karratha 
workforce transition.
Woodside and the Browse Joint Venture support Broome’s Nagula Jarndu Designs, providing opportunities for Aboriginal women to produce hand-crafted 
textiles inspired by the Broome landscape.22  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019SOCIAL AND CULTURAL IMPACTS ON COMMUNITIES
Our Indigenous communities
We value the relationships we have built with the Aboriginal 
communities over more than three decades of operations on 
Western Australia’s Burrup Peninsula. We regularly engage with 
communities in the Pilbara and Kimberley about our operations 
and growth projects, to minimise impacts and enhance outcomes 
in the areas of education, training, employment, business 
opportunities and cultural heritage management. 
Woodside’s Indigenous Communities Policy sets out our 
approach to building long-lasting relationships with Indigenous 
communities based on integrity and respect. 
Demonstrating our ongoing commitment, in late 2019 we signed 
new agreements with the Ngarluma Yindjibarndi Foundation 
Limited (NYFL) and the Murujuga Aboriginal Corporation (MAC). 
The agreements build on existing long-term partnerships with 
the two organisations and the communities they represent and 
support our plans to continue operations at the NWS Project and 
Pluto LNG for decades to come. 
  Refer to our website for more information about the 
agreements.  
Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP)
Woodside’s 2016–2020 RAP aims to foster reconciliation  
between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians. It was 
awarded the highest status of ‘Elevate’ by Reconciliation  
Australia for its focus on outcomes tailored to business needs  
and guided by host communities.
In 2019, we made positive progress against our 2016–2020 
RAP by improving the conversion rate of Indigenous trainees to 
employees to more than 50%.  
As an ‘Elevate’ RAP partner, we joined 13 other leading Australian 
organisations in supporting the Uluru Statement from the Heart 
during National Reconciliation Week in May. The Statement 
provides a national Indigenous consensus position on Indigenous 
constitutional recognition. 
Our 2019 RAP report will be released in May 2020.Cultural heritage
We have implemented comprehensive cultural heritage 
management plans to protect the heritage values of the Burrup 
Peninsula. We make significant efforts to monitor and manage our 
environmental impacts on cultural heritage, including rock art. 
In 2019, we worked with Traditional Owners to develop  
cultural heritage management plans for our Burrup Hub 
developments including Pluto Train 2 and Scarborough.  
We also worked with an independent consultant to complete  
a desktop study of submerged near-shore heritage for the  
Scarborough development.
We continued our involvement in the Western Australian 
Government’s Murujuga Rock Art Stakeholder Reference  
Group and support the implementation of an independent 
monitoring program to ensure the protection of rock art on  
the Burrup Peninsula.
We remain committed to the management, protection and 
research of the National Heritage values under the Burrup 
Conservation Agreement, which was signed by Woodside and the 
Commonwealth Government in 2007. As part of the agreement, 
in June we announced an A$4 million contribution to the MAC to 
fund the construction of the Murujuga Living Knowledge Centre 
on the Burrup Peninsula. The Centre will help maintain, promote 
and celebrate the rich and ancient cultural values of the area.
We support the proposed World Heritage Listing of the  
Burrup Peninsula and believe that heritage and industry can  
continue to co-exist, as has been demonstrated for the past  
30 years. 
 
Celebrating the signing of new agreements with Pilbara Aboriginal groups.
Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  23Social contribution
Woodside contributed A$17 million to communities in 2019 
through strategic partnerships, small-scale community grants and donations, the Woodside Development Fund and the value of time our employees spent volunteering. Woodside also leveraged an additional A$16.1 million spend contributed through joint ventures, employees, government funding partnerships and other  co-funded initiatives. 
Our social investment approach aims to build the capacity 
and capability of the communities where we are active. We seek to deliver outcomes by creating opportunities, improving knowledge and building resilience of these communities, across four key areas: 
 +E
ducation and early childhood development
 +Inno
vation and technology 
 +Arts, cultur
e and community
 +En
vironment. 
During the year, we designed a standardised framework to improve measurement of the impact of our social investments. The framework supports online partner reporting, data aggregation and impact reporting across our partnership portfolio.
We finalised a social investment strategy for our activities 
in the North West of Australia to support programs with enhanced focus on key themes of shared opportunities, vibrant communities, respect and recognition and environmental stewardship. New partnerships include Grow Local, a joint initiative with the Karratha and Districts Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other companies aimed at enhancing local business capability. We also expanded the Woodside grants program across Karratha, Roebourne, Exmouth and Broome. Partnership highlights in 2019 included extending our support for Surf Life Saving Western Australia with a new A$5 million, five-year partnership, including sponsorship of the Woodside Nippers program. We also signed a new three-year partnership with Orange Sky Australia to support a free mobile shower and laundry service for people experiencing homelessness in Perth. 
The Woombooriny Amboon Angarriiya Partnership Initiative, 
led by the Woodside Development Fund in partnership with Save the Children, was recognised with the Western Australian Government’s Community Partnership Resources Sector Award. The partnership is a community-led approach to improve early childhood outcomes for Aboriginal children living on the Dampier Peninsula in the Kimberley region.      
Community conversations during a shift with ‘Karla’, the mobile laundry and 
shower van funded through Woodside’s partnership with Orange Sky Australia.
2019 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION
Woodside Development Fund
Focused on improving outcomes for children from birth to eight years through sector capability, 
advocacy and trialling collaboration between multiple organisations to increase impact
Volunteering
More than 50% of our people volunteered with corporate partners during 2019, including  
75 or ganisations and 50 schools 2.5A$1.6A$Strategic partnerships
Established across communities where Woodside has both a presence and impact and seek to 
build the capacity and capability of local organisations MILLION
MILLION
MILLION
MILLION12.1A$
Philanthropy
Provided through small grants in our regional locations and donations 0.8A$24  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019HUMAN RIGHTS
Woodside conducts business in a way that respects the human rights of all people, including our 
employees, the communities where we are active and those working within our supply chains.
Our 2019 performance
In 2019, Woodside updated its Human Rights Policy to better 
reflect our current approach to human rights management and  
to support our growth strategy.
An external consultant completed a human rights risk assessment 
on our operated exploration, development and production 
activities. The assessment identified key risks at a global and 
regional level and evaluated our associated management system 
framework. The assessment confirmed there are no material 
gaps in our related controls and highlighted opportunities for 
improvement, which have been pursued.
During the year, we created online human rights awareness 
training modules and advanced human rights training materials. 
The full suite of training will be available to all employees, 
contractors and service providers in early 2020. 
Australian modern slavery legislation
We continue to engage with the Commonwealth Government 
and resource sector peers to understand the reporting 
requirements under the Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018  
and associated guidelines. 
Our first reporting period under the new legislation is calendar  
year 2020. 
Managing security
We are committed to supporting the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) initiative as evidenced by 
our ongoing signatory status. We remain an active participant 
in the VPSHR Australian Working Group and collaborated with 
industry, government and non-governmental organisations for 
security and human rights-related activities in Australia, Timor-
Leste, and Myanmar.We continue to align our policies and procedures with 
internationally recognised security and human rights principles. 
In line with our security and human rights framework, we 
completed due diligence on several new security providers and 
conducted four private security provider conformity assessments. 
We also reviewed security and human rights threat and risk 
assessments for countries including Timor-Leste, Senegal, Peru 
and Myanmar and completed in-country assurance reviews.
There were no reported security-related human rights incidents 
in 2019. 
Managing our supply chain
We continue to implement our supply chain human rights 
framework and related management activities. Particular 
attention was given to the award of major fabrication packages 
for our growth projects in 2019, where we undertook risk-
based human rights due diligence prior to contract award and 
agreed modern slavery management plans with the successful 
contractors. 
We delivered modern slavery awareness training to more than 
150 employees who manage supplier contracts. The training 
was developed and delivered in collaboration with an external 
subject matter expert. It provided attendees with knowledge of 
contemporary modern slavery risks, how we are managing these 
risks in its supply chain and their responsibilities to report any 
suspected occurrences. 
Our presence in Myanmar
Woodside has had a presence in Myanmar since 2013, and we 
have been welcomed as a responsible investor in the country.  
We hold interests in six offshore exploration blocks and are 
targeting front-end engineering and design phase entry for the 
A-6 Development in 2020.
We focus on conducting all of our activities to high international 
standards. This includes complying with Australian legislation 
enacted to uphold human rights treaties and declarations and 
managing the social and environmental impacts of our activities. 
We note that the United Nations and the Australian Government 
continue to support economic engagement with Myanmar. In line 
with this, we believe that we can remain a constructive foreign 
investor, supporting Myanmar’s economic development.2019 Highlights
 + Updated our Human Rights Policy
 + Trained 100% of employees in human rights through the 
Code of Conduct refresher
 + Delivered modern slavery awareness training for our people
2020 Priorities
 + Implement a human rights training program
 + Develop our inaugural modern slavery statement
 + Continue implementation of new contractual 
requirements to existing suppliers and develop a supply 
chain grievance mechanismWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  25
 OUR ENVIRONMENT26  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019CLIMATE CHANGE AND
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
The world needs more energy, delivered in cleaner ways. Woodside contributes to solving 
these challenges by supplying gas, limiting our emissions and developing innovative new 
markets and technologies for the efficient delivery of energy.
2019 Highlights
 + Stated our aspiration to be carbon neutral by 2050
 + Committed to periodic review of our emissions targets, 
which includes:
 •  Setting a target to offset our global portfolio equity 
reservoir CO2 from 2021
 •  Setting a new 5% energy efficiency improvement 
target against baseline for 2021–25
 + Commenced a partnership with Greening Australia to 
undertake large-scale native tree planting projects that will 
generate quality carbon offsets
 + Partnered with Monash University to support research 
targeted at Australia’s lower-carbon energy sources
OPPORTUNITIES RISKS
 + Increased demand for lower-
carbon fuels, especially in 
sectors that have few zero-
carbon alternatives
 + Promote gas as an ideal 
partner for renewables
 + Explore options for lower-
carbon energy sources 
including hydrogen
 + Improve our energy 
efficiency + Physical impacts of climate 
change
 + Reduced demand for our 
products constrains  
our ability to create and  
deliver shareholder value
 + Uncertainty around global 
carbon policy
 + Increase in investor concerns, 
societal pressure and risk of 
reputational damage
Our approach
Woodside is committed to a lower-carbon world. We are 
committed to playing a role in the world’s energy transformation, 
through limiting our own emissions and reducing global 
emissions by supplying cleaner energy to a world that needs it.
Our climate change strategy allows us to deliver sustainable 
value by:
 +Continuing to focus on limiting our own emissions
 +Managing physical climate change impacts on our assets
 +Maintaining and growing a long-term resilient portfolio
 +Advocating for a lower-carbon economy.Managing our emissions
In line with our Climate Change Policy, we use four key pillars to 
manage our greenhouse gas emissions:
 + We design our facilities to operate efficiently
 + We use operational practices that limit our direct emissions
 + We generate and acquire quality carbon offsets 
 + We are diversifying our business into supplying lower- and 
zero-carbon energy sources for the future.
Our performance
Emissions
In 2019, we reduced our total equity and operated greenhouse 
gas emissions mainly as a result of the Ngujima-Yin FPSO 
facility being off-station, preparations for the Greater Enfield 
Project, an extended turnaround at the Pluto LNG Plant and 
the decommissioning of the Nganhurra FPSO. We also reduced 
our flaring by 14% with improved performance observed after 
maintenance turnarounds.MATERIAL TOPIC
Scope 1 & 2 operated emissions by source
Fuel combustion
VentingFlare
OtherRefer to pages 28 and 29 for more details on how we are 
managing our emissions.kt C02-e
15 18 19 16 1712,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  27Energy efficiency  
In 2019, extended maintenance turnarounds impacted progress 
against our target of 5% energy efficiency improvement 
against baseline by 2020. These turnarounds will contribute 
to our target by improving plant performance, at the cost of 
short-term impacts. This was reflected in our energy efficiency 
improvements against baseline reducing to 3.1%, down from 3.4% 
in 2018. We remain committed to our 2020 target and will focus 
on maintaining high reliability of our facilities and continuing to 
implement efficiency improvement projects. 
We delivered a total of 17 energy efficiency improvements 
across our operated asset portfolio in 2019, including the  
commissioning of a lithium-ion battery energy storage system on 
the Goodwyn-A offshore platform.
     Refer to page 28 for more information on our energy 
efficiency improvementsRefer to page 28 for more information on the Methane 
Guiding Principles initiative.Portfolio resilience
In testing the resilience of our portfolio, we consider sensitivities 
across a range of variables, including commodity prices, carbon 
prices, exchange rates and interest rates.
Refer to pages 42 and 43 in our Annual Report 2019 for 
our response to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures.
Policy advocacy
Climate change is an important and complex issue that requires
stable, clear, national policies that allow business to invest in
initiatives to limit emissions. We continue to support global
carbon pricing to achieve low-cost emissions reductions.
We support Australian climate and energy policy that sets
scientifically based targets, prices emissions using market
mechanisms, protects international competitiveness and endures 
over the long term. Advice issued by the Climate Change 
Authority to date aligns well with our position on how to deliver 
these policy objectives.
Refer to our website for government submissions and 
reports relating to climate change. 
Refer to our website for Woodside’s Response to CDP 
(formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project).Scope 1 equity emissions
Operated emissions Non-operated emissions15 18 19 16 174,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0kt C02-e
Energy efficiency against baseline
1. Impacts include one-off production interruptions such as maintenance turnaroundsEnergy efficiency performance
Performance 
against baselinePerformance 
against baseline 
excluding 
impacts1Target performance0.0
-1.0%
-2.0%
-3.0%
-4.0%
-5.0%
-6.0%2017 2018 2019 2016
-3.8-3.4-3.1-0.7
-3.8
-5.4-3.5-2.0
Operated emissions by gas
Carbon 
dioxideNitrous 
oxide
Sulfur 
hexafluoride96.2% 0.1%
Methane
3.7% <0.1%Within our overall greenhouse gas emissions, carbon dioxide 
remains the largest source. Our methane emissions reduced by 
over 15% in 2019 and we continue to focus on initiatives that 
support the Methane Guiding Principles initiative.28  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019   EFFICIENT OPERATIONS
Woodside facilities adopt a structured process to identify and 
implement opportunities in our operational practices that 
improve energy efficiency, reduce fuel use and minimise flaring. 
Microgrid technology
The world-first application of microgrid technology, lithium-ion 
battery energy storage system, on the Goodwyn-A offshore 
platform, was commissioned in mid-2019. It is expected to reduce 
the platform’s use of fuel gas by more than 3,000 tonnes per 
year, improve platform energy efficiency by 4%, and reduce 
greenhouse emissions by 7,000 tonnes CO2-e per year.   
Reducing fuel gas usage
We have reduced fuel gas usage at Karratha Gas Plant by 
allowing plant operators to optimise power generation. This will 
reduce the number of generators in use, with early estimates 
indicating a reduction of 48,000 tonnes CO2-e per year.
Global initiatives
Woodside is a signatory to the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring 
initiative, committing to implement strategies to eliminate 
routine flaring from our oil assets by 2030 and report annually 
on progress to the World Bank. We have also committed to 
the Methane Guiding Principles initiative to continually reduce 
methane emissions along the natural gas value chain. In support 
of this, we joined the Sustainable Gas Institute to host the  
world’s first methane masterclass, bringing together all elements 
of the natural gas value chain to support initiatives under  
the Guiding Principles.CLIMATE CHANGE AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Woodside is committed to limiting our greenhouse gas emissions and playing a significant role 
in the world’s energy transformation. We achieve this under four key pillars.
   EFFICIENT FACILITY DESIGN
When we design our facilities, we consider latest updates to 
industry best practice and use of novel technologies to drive 
improvements in performance. We have incorporated energy 
efficiency and emissions reductions measures into the design 
of our planned facilities, which typically include:
 +High-efficiency turbines to reduce fuel usage
 +Recovering waste heat energy to reduce heating.
We also incorporate additional measures for specific  
projects including:
Browse
 +Battery backup to reduce fuel gas usage
 + Active electrical heating of flowlines to reduce chemical 
usage and fuel gas consumption.
Pluto Train 2
 + Integrating electrical power generation across the facility
 +Improving performance by cooling inlet air streams.
Sangomar Field Development
 + Using seawater to directly cool fluid processing systems.Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  29   OFFSET
In 2019, we set a target to offset our global portfolio equity 
reservoir CO2 from 2021. Our internal carbon business 
continues to develop and acquire large-scale carbon offsets, 
including land-based solutions for carbon sequestration. 
These opportunities include partnerships for environmental 
planning, human-induced land regeneration and Indigenous fire 
management projects.
Greening Australia partnership
During the year, we commenced a partnership with Greening 
Australia to create quality carbon offsets by undertaking  
large-scale native tree planting projects, predominantly 
in Western Australia. When combined with our previous 
investment in the Pluto trees initiative, Woodside has invested 
more than A$100 million dollars in bio-sequestration across 
Australia over the past ten years.
Woodside supports the growth in capacity and capability  
of Australia’s carbon farming industry, acknowledging the  
co-benefits in generating offsets locally. Offsets are an efficient 
way of reducing the amount of carbon in the atmosphere and 
creating jobs and local content, while promoting biodiversity.   DIVERSIFY 
Woodside aims to remain resilient in a lower-carbon world. 
We are developing new markets for LNG to displace higher 
emissions fuels, including replacing heavy fuel oil in ships, and 
diesel for power in remote locations.
We are also exploring opportunities associated with producing 
and exporting hydrogen. Hydrogen is a versatile, reliable and 
a clean-burning source of power and fuel. It is already being 
produced from our LNG exports in some of our destination 
markets. Our experience in producing and exporting LNG 
positions us well for complementary opportunities in  
large-scale hydrogen for industrial use.
Carbon technologies
We are exploring technologies that use carbon dioxide at  
scale, including bio-sequestration, methanation, reforming  
and mineralisation.
In 2019 we joined Global CCS, an international organisation 
developing collective knowledge and expertise in carbon 
capture and storage (CCS) technologies. We maintained our 
membership with CO2CRC, Australia’s leading CCS research 
organisation in technology and expertise to support long-term 
commercialisation of CCS.
30  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019ENVIRONMENT
We recognise that strong environmental performance underpins our success and  
continued growth.
Our approach
We are committed to understanding and managing the 
environmental impacts associated with our activities.  
Our approach includes:
 +Robust environmental risk management
 +Strong partnerships with local researchers
 +Transparency of our environmental knowledge. 
Research published from our partnerships assists our  
decision-making on environmental management and  
increases understanding and knowledge sharing across  
the broader community.
In 2019, Woodside’s commitment to responsible environmental 
management was recognised by APPEA through its 2018 
Company Environment Excellence Award. This is our sixth  
award in the past 11 years. 
Our environmental partnerships
We have a long history of collaborating with science and 
educational institutions, government and non-government 
organisations, and Indigenous and community groups. 
These long-term relationships, including our partnerships 
with the Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS) and 
Western Australian Museum that span more than 20 years, 
have contributed scientific knowledge that has improved the 
understanding of biodiversity and ecological function in  
Western Australia’s tropical marine ecosystems.In Myanmar, we entered the third year of our science partnership 
with Fauna & Flora International to continue to build capacity 
in coral reef habitat-mapping and mangrove ecology at the 
Marine Science departments of Pathein, Mawlamyine and 
Myeik universities. The small grant program associated with the 
partnership supported 26 university staff and students, enabling 
recipients to conduct independent field research that contributes 
to higher degree qualifications. Woodside also led a data-sharing 
initiative with seven oil and gas operators that contributed to 
knowledge of marine fauna biodiversity in offshore waters in 
north-west Myanmar.
Environmental studies
Our collaborative studies have resulted in more than 200 peer-
reviewed scientific publications and are highlighted in numerous 
videos and books. The research published from these long-term 
partnerships will help guide policy makers, natural resource 
managers and the public towards ensuring a more sustainable 
future for our oceans and communities. 
Myanmar students participating in a field training program as part of our 
partnership with Fauna & Flora International.2019 Highlights
 + Progressed primary environmental approvals for our 
Burrup Hub projects
 + Awarded the 2018 Australian Petroleum Production & 
Exploration Association (APPEA) Company Environment 
Excellence Award
 + Continued to support biodiversity knowledge and capacity 
building in our international exploration and development 
activities
2020 Priorities
 + Obtain environmental approvals for our Burrup Hub projects
 + Continue to progress environmental studies for our growth 
activities in Myanmar and SenegalWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  31In 2019, we conducted a range of environmental studies, surveys, 
stakeholder consultations and impact assessments to support 
our primary environmental approval processes. These included 
the Environmental Impact Statements and Environmental Review  
Documents supporting our Burrup Hub growth projects. These 
documents were released for public comment in December 
2019 and provide Commonwealth and state regulators with the 
information required to assess the project proposals against 
the Commonwealth Environment Protection and Biodiversity 
Conservation Act 1999  and the Western Australian Environmental 
Protection Act 1986 .
We undertook a study with AIMS on a section of the subsea 
Pluto LNG trunkline to examine fish–habitat association. The 
examined section of the trunkline runs through the Australian 
Commonwealth Montebello Marine Park and provides a hard 
seafloor habitat for fish to colonise on. Over 7,000 fish from  
81 species were identified. Studies like these contribute 
knowledge about the value that oil and gas infrastructure 
provides as a habitat and potential impact on biodiversity and 
ecology in marine parks.
This knowledge informs decisions about pipeline routes for new 
developments, such as Browse, and decommissioning options 
when these structures reach the end of their field life.Collaborative expansion of the  
Ningaloo Turtle Program
We have supported the Government of Western Australia’s 
Department of Biodiversity, Conservation and Attractions (DBCA) 
Ningaloo Turtle Program since 2012. The program provides 
information that contributes to the management of marine turtle 
seasonal nesting habitats along the Ningaloo coast. Through 
collaborative expansion of the program between 2017 and 2019¹, 
DBCA has been able to: 
 + Conduct on-beach and aerial surveys that confirmed the 
importance of the Muiron Islands, offshore islands inside the 
Ningaloo Coast World Heritage Area, for nesting by green and 
loggerhead turtles
 + Deepen understanding of the behaviour and movement 
of female green and loggerhead turtles between nesting 
activities, identify foraging grounds within the Ningaloo Marine 
Park and confirm migration routes post-nesting using  
satellite tracking
 + Better understand distribution patterns of marine turtles  
at more remote nesting habitats along the southern  
Ningaloo coast
 + Involve Indigenous trainee rangers in the development of  
remote marine turtle monitoring programs including training, 
monitoring and program management.
The additional research and surveys have provided new 
knowledge on specific marine turtle species, which supports 
effective on-ground management, conservation and monitoring 
activities within the Ningaloo Marine Park and Ningaloo Coast 
World Heritage Area.
A turtle on the Muiron Islands inside the Ningaloo Coast World Heritage Area.
1. As part of a joint venture between Woodside and Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Ltd.32  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019MAJOR INCIDENT  
PREPAREDNESS
The ability to respond in the event of a major incident is a key focus of Woodside.
Our approach
By carefully planning, reviewing and testing our major incident 
response capabilities, we ensure we meet our obligations to our 
stakeholders and, in particular, the communities where we are 
active. Our global crisis and emergency management framework 
is based on international best-practice standards and uses an all-
hazards approach of ‘prevent, prepare, respond and recover’.Incident and crisis leadership
In 2019, we developed a program targeted at incident and crisis 
leaders, focusing on leadership practice during critical incidents. 
The program aims to improve our ability to respond to major 
accidents and environmental events, whilst providing skills that 
are transferable into everyday activities. As a proprietary offering, 
the program is regarded as an Australian industry first and 
reflects Woodside’s desire to maintain a high level of capability 
and preparedness.
During the year, we tested and confirmed our incident response 
capability by conducting:
500 emergency response drills
14 emergency management  
exercises 
1 crisis management exercise2019 Highlights
 +  Maintained high levels of preparedness and response 
capability through our testing and exercising program
 + Developed and delivered improved crisis leadership 
training 
 + Extensive cross-industry collaboration leading to 
streamlined emergency response capabilities on the  
Burrup
2020 Priorities
 + Major oil spill exercise including a full-field deployment of 
personnel and equipment
 + Continued roll-out of the Incident and Crisis Management 
Leadership Development Program 
A crisis exercise underway at Woodside’s Perth headquarters.SIGNIFICANT TOPICWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  33
 OUR APPROACH34 Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019Company transparency about financial payments to governments is critical for confidence and 
stability in fiscal, political and regulatory regimes.
Our transparent approach to tax
We are a proud Australian company and a significant taxpayer, 
globally recognised for our approach to tax.
Our tax governance framework and Tax Policy stipulate that 
we will comply with all tax laws and regulations applicable to our business. We also recognise that investment decisions and project developments are underpinned by stable, sustainable and competitive tax and fiscal regimes.
We believe that taxes should be paid where value is created. 
We do not support the use of artificial arrangements. We engage proactively with tax policy setters and administrators, maintaining open and constructive relationships. 
We work with the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) and 
voluntarily operate under an Annual Compliance Arrangement (ACA), which allows for interaction on tax matters and a 
framework for real-time disclosure. The ACA is only available to 
taxpayers that are trusted, transparent, compliant and have a robust tax governance framework. 
We recognise the need to be open, transparent and accountable 
to maintain the trust of our employees, contractors, suppliers and customers. We voluntarily participate in the Board of Taxation’s Tax Transparency Code in Australia, with Part A of the recommended disclosures located in our Annual Report 2019 and Part B in this report, supported by further information on our website.
For the past three years, we’ve achieved a perfect score in 
the approach to tax category in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). The DJSI is a global benchmark that tracks the performance of leading companies in terms of economic, 
environmental and social criteria.
  R efer to the Tax Transparency section of our website for more 
information on our approach and government submissions 
and reports related to tax.
We pay our taxes
We do the right thing when it comes to paying taxes due under 
law. It is one of the ways we support our social licence to operate. 
We’re a significant taxpayer in Australia, where the majority of 
our producing assets are located, income is earned and more 
than 95% of our taxes are paid.In addition to corporate income tax, our hydrocarbon production 
is subject to a complex mix of Australian taxes, including petroleum resource rent tax, federal royalties and federal excise. Woodside’s tax liability is affected by a number of factors, such as changes to production, operating fields and commodity 
prices impacting revenues, as well as cost of sales and capital 
investment impacting expenditures.
In 2019, we paid A $737 million in tax and royalties to federal and 
state governments in Australia and A$4.4 billion over the past five 
years.
Our effective income tax rate on our Australian profits of 29.3% in 
2019, compared with 29.4% in 2018, continues to be near to (and 
is sometimes greater than) the Australian corporate tax rate of 
30% as outlined in our Annual Report 2019. 
  R efer to the ‘We pay our taxes’ page on our website for 
more information about our tax contribution, including a 
comparison with 2018 and the ATO’s tax data release.
  R efer to the Tax Transparency section of our website for 
information on why corporate income tax is not just 30% of profits.
We remain a significant Australian taxpayer  
with more thanIn 2019, we paid
of our taxes paid in Australiamillion in taxes and royalties in Australia 95%737A$Payroll tax
57Federal excise
39
Federal 
royalties
189Fringe  
benefits tax
5
Income tax
4472019 Australian tax contribution (A$m)TRANSPARENCYWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  35International related-party dealings
We apply arm’s-length principles to our international related-
party dealings for our global business activities.
The majority of Woodside’s international related-party dealings 
support services provided by personnel from our corporate 
headquarters in Australia. The total value of these services is 
not significant when compared to the revenue from production 
activities.
Our Singapore office sources new buyers and uses real-time  
LNG trading markets to sell our uncommitted Australian  
LNG cargoes. The profits from these cargoes are subject to  
tax in Australia.
Other support functions, including representative offices and 
group services, are located across the globe in proximity to 
important assets and markets.
  Refer to our Annual Report 2019 for a full list of Woodside’s 
Group of Companies, their country of incorporation and our 
ownership interest.
Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative
Woodside joined the Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (EITI) in 2005 and 
became an EITI Supporting Company in 
2008. The EITI is a global standard to promote the open and 
accountable management of extractive resources. Woodside is 
committed to reporting our petroleum tax and fee payments in 
respect of operations in implementing countries where we have 
an interest.
Payments to political parties 
Woodside regularly engages with governments of countries 
where we are active to exchange information and views 
essential to mutually informed decision-making. We established 
a representative office in Canberra in 2019 to support our 
government engagements and facilitate progress of our  
growth projects.
The Woodside Board agreed to renew our membership to the 
two major federal political party business forums in Australia in 
2019: the Federal Liberal Party Australian Business Network and 
the Australian Labor Party Federal Business Forum. Woodside 
also joined the federal National Party’s National Policy Forum 
and the state-based business forums of the Labor, Liberal and 
National parties in Western Australia. 
Woodside’s political contributions for the financial year 
2018/19, as published by the Australian Electoral Commission 
AEC, totalled A$283,340. This comprised A$110,000 each for 
membership of Liberal and Labor federal business associations 
and A$63,340 for participation in other state and federal political 
conferences and events.
Woodside does not donate to campaign funds for any political 
party, politician or candidate for public office in any country.Industry association memberships
Peak industry organisations provide members with a forum 
for discussion on policy issues and to share best-practice 
approaches. Woodside participates in these associations to 
increase our awareness, understand stakeholder expectations 
and to show leadership on a range of topics important to our 
company and our stakeholders.
We monitor the positions of organisations we are members of 
and while our views do not always align, we seek to influence 
their positions on a range of policy issues.
 Refer to our website for more information on memberships.
 
36  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019FRAUD, ANTI-BRIBERY
AND CORRUPTION
We seek to prevent, detect and effectively respond to all acts of fraud or corruption within or 
associated with Woodside. 
Our approach
Fraud, bribery and corruption continue to affect developed and 
developing countries alike. The extractives industry continues to 
be a target and prone to their impacts, including undermining 
fair competition and diverting funds into the hands of criminals, 
dishonest officials and opportunists.  
We are committed to avoiding fraudulent or corrupt activities 
in connection with all of our operations and activities. During 
2019, we arranged an independent external review of our anti-
bribery and corruption processes. The review concluded that the program remains fit for purpose and in line with good anti-
bribery compliance programs.  
Our anti-bribery compliance program is reflected in contract 
terms and conditions, with specific obligations on contractors 
to comply with anti-bribery and corruption requirements. When 
entering non-operated joint venture agreements or higher risk 
supply contracts, we conduct risk-proportionate due diligence, 
assess capability of the counterparty, and periodically conduct 
compliance audits.  
To ensure we remain vigilant to the risk of bribery and corruption, 
we implemented the following improvements in 2019:
+  Introduced additional due diligence and monitoring capability 
covering reputation risk 
+  Revised our whistleblowing management and response 
processes in line with Australian legislation changes 
+  Introduced compliance audits of our social investments. 
We also conducted seven anti-bribery and corruption compliance 
audits, resulting in recommended improvements to due diligence, 
subcontractor terms and sponsored travel arrangements. 
Managing the risk
We regularly assess and monitor integrity and financial crime 
risks applicable to our business. This is reflected in our approach 
to the prevention and detection of fraud and corruption, 
including all commercial activities and engagement with 
government. During 2019, stand-alone risk assessments for our 
Senegal and Myanmar assets were enhanced, including local 
due diligence processes refined, and tailored supplier codes of 
conduct developed.  
Annual advanced anti-bribery training was delivered to more 
than 2,000 personnel, including all personnel in international 
locations or travelling to high-risk locations.  2020 Priorities
 + Enhance due diligence and capability assessments on 
proposed major project contractors
 + Deploy enhanced case management and real-time  
analytics tools 2019 Highlights
 + Detected no violations of anti-bribery and corruption laws 
within or in connection with Woodside’s business 
+  Completed anti-bribery compliance audits on social 
investment partners, and capability assessments for 
logistics tenderers in Senegal 
+  Trained 100% of our employees on anti-bribery as part of 
the Code of Conduct annual refresh 
+  Trained staff in higher-risk roles in annual advanced  
anti-bribery training  
+  Conducted an external review of our anti-bribery 
compliance program, confirming it remains fit for purpose 
SIGNIFICANT TOPICWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  37SUPPLY CHAIN AND
LOCAL CONTENT
To enable Woodside’s growth opportunities, we continue to lead procurement strategies to 
deliver value, build commercial expertise and foster sustainable supply chains. 
Our approach
In line with Woodside’s focus on continuous improvement, we 
streamlined our contracting and procurement processes in 
2019 to maximise value from our supply chain. This included 
the introduction of a data analytics platform, increased use of 
automation and simplified governance for lower-risk contractual 
commitments. This focus will continue in 2020 to support our 
growth activities. 
We increased training, tools and support for our contract 
managers to maximise value from our supplier relationships.  
We also progressed towards a revised digital structure to 
increase efficiencies in the contracting processes, with increased 
use of automation. 
We actively manage Australian Industry Participation Plans 
that outline our actions to provide Australian industry with full, 
fair and reasonable opportunity to participate in our projects. 
In 2019, we had six plans in place for major projects including 
Scarborough, Pyxis, NWS Subsea Tieback Program, Pluto Train 2, 
Julimar and Greater Enfield. 
In line with the requirements of these plans, supplier briefings 
and information sessions were held in Perth, Karratha and 
Broome, providing opportunities for local suppliers to express 
interest in participating in our projects.To better understand and manage the modern slavery risks in our 
supply chain, we introduced human rights clauses into our major 
project contracts and delivered modern slavery awareness training.
Refer to page 24 for more information on human rights.
Our performance
In 2019, Woodside sp ent and committed A$ 4.3 billion across 
more than 2,000  suppliers.1 The majority of spend was with 
Australian-based suppliers, supporting local jobs an d businesses.
The following positive outcomes against our Elevate 
Reconciliation Action Plan procurement commitments were 
delivered in 2019:
 + 143 active purchasing relationships with Indigenous businesses 
 + 3% increase in value of contracts awarded to Indigenous 
businesses.
The A$55 million NWS housing refurbishment project to upgrade 
400 homes continued in 2019, with 95% of subcontracting 
opportunities delivered to 24 local companies in Karratha. The 
project is being delivered by two separate contractors, with one 
being an Indigenous-owned and operated business that has 
employed 51 local Indigenous people. 2019 Highlights
 + Expanded the usage of data analytics tools to facilitate 
better contract management 
 + Continued the adoption of digital technology to improve 
supply chain efficiency
 + Further progress against Woodside’s Reconciliation Action 
Plan commitments, with a  16% increase in new contracts 
awarded to Indigenous businesses 
2020 Priorities
 + Provide greater support for contract management,  
including expanding specific role placements
 + Improve processes and digital systems to simplify the 
contracting and procurement process 
 + Continue supply chain sustainability actions including 
collaborating with industry on human rights initiatives
1. Converted from USD at the average 2019 exchange rate.
2. Spend also includes committments.
AUSTRALIA
ITALYSINGAPORE
UNITED KINGDOM4%
3%
3%GLOBAL SPEND BY COUNTRY 2
84%38  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019We set global expectations for our activities to ensure we comply with regulatory obligations, 
manage risk and meet the expectations of our stakeholders.
Our approach
Woodside’s rights and interests, and those of our stakeholders, 
are enabled and protected by the laws of the countries where we 
work. It therefore follows that respect for and complying with the 
law is core to our values.In undertaking our global business activities, we comply with a 
broad range of regulatory requirements across all parts of our 
business to ensure:
 + Regulatory obligations are identified, understood and assessed 
for applicability in the specific circumstances
 + Responsibilities to comply with regulatory obligations have 
been identified and clearly communicated
 + Regulatory obligations are being met and reported against
 + Where regulatory obligations are not met, or not likely to be 
met, corrective actions are taken.
Our management system sets global expectations for the way 
we work, supported by more detailed internal processes and 
controls designed to achieve our business objectives while 
managing risk and meeting our regulatory obligations. In 2020, 
we will enhance the integration between regulatory compliance, 
risk, and governance data and controls to provide further insight 
into the life-cycle of regulatory compliance management to drive 
continuous improvement. 
Our 2019 performance
We met 2,114 regulatory compliance deadlines across 51 facilities 
and projects, and 69 corporate entities in 20 countries.  
There were no violations of anti-competitive practice laws 
detected within or in connection with Woodside and no 
significant monetary or non-monetary sanctions or fines were 
received. Three regulatory infringement notices were received in 
relation to our activities.REGULATORY COMPLIANCE
2019 Highlights
 +No violations of anti-competitive practice laws
 + No significant fines or sanctions 
 + Implemented a new service delivery model to deliver more 
effective and efficient service to stakeholders
2020 Priorities
 + Support timely regulatory approvals for our growth projects
 + Centralise monitoring of regulatory changes in global 
jurisdictions 
 + Implement enhanced integration of regulatory compliance 
with governance and risk
Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  39Woodside applies a consistent approach to stakeholder engagement to understand and 
manage our impacts and enhance the social and economic opportunities for the communities 
where we are active.
Our external stakeholder engagement procedure outlines our commitment to transparent communication and feedback with our 
stakeholder groups. The table below outlines how we engage with our eight key stakeholder groups, their interests and our responses 
to these. As part of compiling this report, we consulted representatives from each stakeholder group and identified topics of material 
concern as outlined on page 10.
Stakeholder How we listen What matters What we do
Customers + Regular engagements to 
manage delivery of liquids  
and LNG
 + Proactive engagement to 
understand short- and  
long-term needs
 + In-country representatives 
with marketing offices in four 
locations + Reliable and safe product 
delivery
 + Manage production and 
operational risks
 +Product quality and cost + Focus on safe and reliable 
operations
 + Develop projects to meet 
customers’ energy needs
 + Deliver supply arrangements 
tailored to customer 
requirements
 + Site visits and staff exchanges
Employees  + Regular feedback sessions, 
performance reviews and 
personal development plans 
for all employees
 + Encourage active involvement 
in our internal inclusion and 
diversity-focused community 
groups
 +Employee surveys + Feeling engaged and being 
enabled to do their job
 + Career development 
opportunities
 + Fostering a values-led 
organisational culture
 + Supporting inclusion and 
diversity
 + Health and safety performance, 
including mental health and 
wellbeing
 +Working sustainably +Promote our Compass values
 + Ongoing employee safety, 
health and wellbeing initiatives
 + Annual staff briefing with the 
CEO and senior executives
 + Annual Woodside Awards, 
recognising outstanding 
employee achievement and 
contribution
 + Program to engage our 
network of retired employees
Investors 
and finance 
providers + Regular meetings with 
investor representatives and 
financiers + Superior shareholder returns
 + Management of financial and 
non-financial risks
 + High-quality corporate 
governance
 + Climate change risk 
management
 + Health and safety performance + Investor briefings
 + Full-year and half-year results 
briefings
 + Annual General Meeting
 + Australian Securities Exchange 
announcements
Joint venture 
participants  + Regular meetings with joint 
venture committees
 + Participation in business 
reviews and audits +Health and safety
 + Reliability and safety of supply, 
product quality, cost and 
delivery
 + Environmental and social 
impact management
 +Growth opportunities
 +Governance and transparency  +Work collaboratively to: 
•  Safely deliver operations 
and growth
•  Identify and engage with 
stakeholders
•  Develop and maintain value 
for stakeholdersOUR STAKEHOLDERS
Continued on page 40.40  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Stakeholder How we listen What matters What we do
Local and 
Indigenous 
communities + Regular community and cultural 
heritage update meetings
 + Social impact and 
opportunities assessments 
 + Community perception 
surveys
 + Community grievance 
mechanism
 + Community events and 
information sessions
 + Local social media channels + Local employment and 
contracting opportunities
 + Economic benefits
 + Cultural heritage management
 + Cost of living and potential 
impacts on local services + Regular community 
consultations
 + Local jobs portal and supplier 
forums
 + Targeted social investment 
programs
 + Develop, implement and 
maintain Indigenous 
agreements
 + Monitor community social 
indicators
Local, state 
and national 
governments + Ongoing liaison with 
regulators, government 
agencies and a broad range of 
political stakeholders +Economic benefits
 + Responsible oil and gas 
resource development
 + Environmental, cultural 
heritage, social and fiscal 
performance
 + Climate change and 
greenhouse gas emissions
 + Regulatory compliance
 + Transparency + Regular engagement with all 
levels of government
 + Direct submissions to state 
and national governments’ 
consultation processes
 + Contribute to domestic 
and international industry 
and business association 
submissions
Non-
government 
organisations + Input into social and 
environmental impact 
assessments
 +  Regular participation 
in industry forums and 
associations + Climate change and 
greenhouse gas emissions
 + Environmental impacts
 + Anti-bribery and corruption
 + Transparency
 + Human rights + Participate in the Extractive 
Industries Transparency 
Initiative
 + Engagement on growth 
projects
Suppliers and 
contractors + Regular reciprocal supplier 
performance reviews
 + Embedded supplier 
relationship management with 
our Tier 1 suppliers
 + Supplier feedback survey + Strong contractor 
performance
 + Supply opportunities for 
growth projects
 + Health and safety
 + Supporting Indigenous 
contractors
 + Technology and innovation
 + Capable and effective 
employees + Collaborate to deliver tangible 
safety improvements
 + Provide supplier forums for 
growth projects
 + Collaborate to improve local 
content and Indigenous 
engagement outcomes
 + Continuous anti-bribery and 
corruption monitoringWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  41
 OUR FUTURE42  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019Woodside pioneered the LNG industry in Australia more than 30 years ago, and we are now 
pioneering the industry’s digital transformation. 
Our approach
From the first LNG facility in the southern hemisphere to the 
world’s largest not-normally crewed offshore platform, Woodside 
has long been a leader in applying oil and gas technologies. 
Our approach is to start with the business problem or 
opportunity, to ensure we remain focused on our strategy and 
prioritise the right challenges to work on. Next, we prototype 
small to learn quickly before scaling the improved solutions – fast.
Partnerships
In 2019, we advanced several collaborative innovation 
partnerships that underpin our work. We took equity stakes in 
companies including GLX, Sapien Cyber and Blue Ocean  
Seismic Services, all Western Australian technology start-
ups. We became the first enterprise-level deployment of 
Schlumberger’s DELFI environment for our petrotechnical data 
and entered a new partnership with the Australian Space Agency, 
complementing our existing relationship with the US National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration. We also announced 
new chapters in our long-standing partnerships with Monash 
University, IBM and Amazon Web Services that will support our 
journey towards cleaner energy production, new energy sources 
and intelligent facilities. The transition to a lower-carbon economy will require wide-
ranging collaboration and innovation across the energy sector. 
We joined forces with Monash University to develop a state-of-
the-art ‘living laboratory’ and long-term research partnership to 
support Australia’s lower-carbon energy transition.
We are contributing A$16.5 million to the construction of the 
Woodside Building for Technology and Design, located in the 
Monash Technology Precinct in Victoria. The Precinct houses 
Australia’s largest concentration of research institutions 
and leading engineering companies. The building is due for 
completion in early 2020 and will be one of the world’s most 
efficient and innovative teaching facilities. 
Through the partnership, we will explore the possibilities of 
hydrogen and carbon abatement, with a focus on materials, 
electro-chemical and thermal chemical research. Woodside and 
Monash will also jointly invest more than A$40 million into the 
ongoing research partnership over the next seven years.
We also progressed carbon management and new energy work 
through an agreement with Greening Australia to undertake 
large-scale biodiverse tree planting.
Exploring hydrogen 
We are investigating opportunities associated with hydrogen that 
complement our experience in producing and exporting LNG. 
While this industry is still in its infancy, we are exploring the role 
we can play, including:
•  Extending a memorandum of understanding with Korea Gas 
Corporation to conduct a feasibility study on a green hydrogen 
export project
•  Joining the HyNet consortium, which aims to deliver  
100 hydrogen refuelling stations in Korea over four years.
Intelligent assets
Our intelligent asset work focuses on combining the internet of 
things, artificial intelligence (AI), edge computing and advanced 
robotics technologies to deliver timely insights to our site-
based and remote workforces. This comes with the challenge 
of generating petabytes of data, which must be processed, 
managed and analysed so our workforce can receive key insights 
to act on, empowering decision-making and reducing exposure 
to safety risks.Refer to page  29 fo r more information on the Greening 
Australia partnershipINNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
2019 Highlights
 + Commenced a landmark seven-year collaborative research 
partnership with Monash University to support the 
sustainable transition to a lower-carbon economy
 + Commenced building a digital twin of our Pluto LNG 
onshore facility to optimise the use of sensors and robotics
 + Continued to optimise production at Pluto LNG through 
data algorithms and scaled this capability to other assets
2020 Priorities
 + Optimise the use of sensors and robotics for our growth 
projects
 + Commence quantum computing work program with IBM 
and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)
 + Complete construction of E-ZONE at The University 
of Western Australia showcasing new approaches to 
engineering and mathematical sciences education and 
research 
 + Implement our Digital Academy workforce skills initiative 
across the organisationWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  43During the year, we started building a digital twin of our Pluto 
LNG facility that will bring sensor and robotics data together 
with engineering and production information. The digital twin 
is expected to provide a single location to access knowledge 
about the facility, integrating many different sources of data 
and providing an added past and predictive time dimension for 
analysis and insight. 
Digital transformation and AI
We have been at the forefront of adoption and adaptation of 
digital technologies, reaching significant milestones in 2019 on 
two multi-year projects. We became the first upstream oil and 
gas company to completely digitise our seismic data, transferring 
decades worth of tapes to cloud storage. When combined 
with our enterprise-level deployment of Schlumberger’s DELFI 
environment, this will facilitate faster reviews and a greater focus 
on generating insights to investigate.
We also commenced a project to reimagine the onboarding 
process for new employees, reducing the need to access 
multiple systems. The methodology used in this project will help 
us increase the speed of innovation, and re-design workflows 
to transform the way our people work. We renewed our 
collaborative partnership agreement on AI with IBM and are 
moving into quantum computing research with IBM and the MIT, 
as achieving scale quickly is key for our Burrup Hub facilities to 
operate as intelligent facilities.The future of work
Roles across Woodside are changing through applied 
technologies. Our workforce is not being displaced by these 
changes; it is expanding. Technology is leading to better use of 
the skills and knowledge of the people we already employ, as well 
as creating roles that are new in our industry.
In this environment, it is essential that our workforce remains 
curious and adaptable. 
We are investing in the development of our people through our 
digital academy, launching in 2020. The digital academy will 
allow our people to drive their own personal and professional 
development anywhere, anytime and on any device.
With the future in mind, we continue to invest in research 
programs and professionals, as well as broader initiatives that 
inspire community interest in and passion for science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics (STEM).
During 2019 we contributed more than A $2.5 million towards 
research partnerships with universities, recognition for scientists 
and innovators, and STEM facilities and outreach programs aimed 
at young people and families.
The Woodside Building for Technology and Design is due to open in 2020, part of the Woodside–Monash Energy partnership for a lower-carbon future in Australia. 
The building will be one of the most efficient and innovative teaching buildings of its type in the world, using a combination of solar and hydrogen as its energy source.44  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019We are committed to the protection of our people, assets, reputation and brand through 
securely enabled operations.
 
Our performance
We continue to invest in, and rely on, digital technologies to support 
our activities, but acknowledge that cyber risk has increased  
due to the external digital environment. To ensure we are 
prepared to respond, we increased the risk level attributed to 
cybersecurity in 2019 and continue to focus on protecting our 
assets and information.
To assess our cyber performance, we conducted an external 
review against the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology cybersecurity standard. This standard is widely 
used amongst Western Australia’s energy, utilities and resources 
sectors and the review found that our performance has improved, 
placing us ahead of the sector average in the majority of 
measures in 2019.Cyber incidents
Our cyber response team identified, and responded to, an increase 
in attempted cyber attacks in 2019, including sophisticated phishing 
emails and efforts of large-scale denial-of-service interruptions. This 
reflects both the heightened external threat environment and our 
improved ability to detect and contain threats to our network. We 
use these attempted cyber attacks to strengthen our awareness 
programs and increase the collective cybersecurity knowledge, 
which employees can also apply at home.
Our cybersecurity operations centre is at the forefront of technology 
for detecting and identifying potential incidents and we maintain 
collaborative relationships with both government and private 
organisations. Our long-term cybersecurity strategy acknowledges 
the industry specific threats we are potentially exposed to, and we 
are working with global partners, including Microsoft and AWS, to 
continually adapt our cybersecurity approach to ensure Woodside’s 
network is as secure as possible.
Cyber hygiene
Part of our approach to cybersecurity involves testing our  
digital access points, including deliberate attempts to ‘hack’  
into our systems, identifying vulnerabilities and taking 
appropriate actions.
We updated our information security awareness training in 2019 
to reflect the changing external environment and incorporate 
relevant updates to our approach. This training is now a mandatory 
annual requirement for all Woodside employees and service 
providers with IT access, to build awareness and cyber capability.
In March, we invested in Sapien Cyber Ltd, a Western Australian 
company specialising in the protection and security of critical 
infrastructure. The company’s technology platform provides 
unprecedented network visibility, dynamic real-time monitoring 
and actionable intelligence to reduce dramatically the 
vulnerability of digital systems to cyber attack. 
Our security operations centre has commenced implementing 
technologies developed by Sapien Cyber, available through 
our investment, to extend cyber coverage to our operational 
technology network. We work to ensure our systems and 
applications are ‘secure by design’, which is a key enabler and 
important preventative control.SIGNIFICANT TOPIC
CYBERSECURITY
2019 Highlights
 + Reduced time to detect and respond to a cyber incident
 + Established a testing program to assess the security of our 
most critical systems
 + Invested in Sapien Cyber that developed technology 
designed to protect critical infrastructure from cyber attacks
2020 Priorities
 + Continue to understand and protect our assets and 
information
 + Change the way we control digital access to specific 
information and operations technology resources based 
on risk, allowing for better segregation in the event of a 
compromise
 + Continued awareness and assurance programs to raise the 
level of cyber knowledge across the organisation
3.1 3.23.7 3.6 3.6
Identify Protect Detect Respond Recover4
3
2
13.0 2.93.43.53.4Our cyber performance
2018 2019Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  45
46  Woodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019Health and safety
Frequency rates Frequency rates are calculated per million work hours
Total recordable injury rate (TRIR)The number of recordable injuries (fatalities + lost work day cases + restricted workday cases + medical treatment cases  
+ permanent partial disability) per million work hours.
Lost time injury (LTI) An LTI is an incident that results in a fatality, disability or time lost from work. The number of LTIs is the sum of these.
IncidentIs one, or more, of the following: an unplanned release of energy that actually resulted in injury, occupational illness, 
environmental harm or damage to assets, a near miss, damage or potential damage to company reputation, breach of 
regulatory compliance and/or legislation, security breach.
Loss of primary containment (LOPC)An unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from primary containment, including non-toxic and non-flammable 
materials (e.g. steam, hot condensate, nitrogen, compressed CO 2 or compressed air).
Process safety event (PSE)
(Tier 1 and Tier 2)An unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment (LOPC) of any material including non-toxic and non-flammable 
materials from a process, or an undesired event or condition. Process safety events are classified as Tier 1 – LOPC of greatest 
consequence or Tier 2 – LOPC of lesser consequence. As defined by American Petroleum Institute (API) recommended 
practice 754.Notes and definitions
People
Total employees Total number of employees including permanent, fixed term and part-time. Does not include secondees or contractors.
Contractors Non-Woodside employees, working within Woodside to support specific activities.
Total turnover Permanent and fixed-term employees who left Woodside voluntarily or involuntarily.
Voluntary turnover Permanent and fixed-term employees who left Woodside voluntarily for reasons not initiated by the company.
Social investmentSocial investment data has been verified by the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) methodology. The LBG verified data 
includes donations, community investment and commercial initiatives. For more information, visit review.lbg-online.net
AIMS Australian Institute of Marine Science 
APPEA Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration Association
ATO Australian Taxation Office
Board Woodside’s governing body – the Board of Directors
CCS Carbon capture and storage
CEO Chief Executive Officer
Code Woodside’s Code of Conduct
DBCAWestern Australia’s Department of Biodiversity, 
Conservation and Attractions 
DJSI  Dow Jones Sustainability Index
EITI  Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
ESG Environment, social and governance
Flaring The controlled burning of gas found in oil and gas reservoirs
FPSO Floating, production, storage and offloading facility
Greenhouse 
gasesGases that absorb infra-red radiation, including carbon
dioxide, hydrofluorocarbons, methane, nitrous oxides,
ozone, perfluorocarbons, vapour and water
GRIThe Global Reporting Initiative is a network-based
organisation that promotes sustainability reporting
worldwide. The GRI reporting framework sets out
principles and indicators that organisations can use to
measure and report their economic, environmental and
social performance.
HSE Health, safety and environment
HSER Health, safety and environment representativeIPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental 
Conservation Association. The global oil and gas industry 
association for environmental and social issues.
LBG London Benchmarking Group
LNG Liquefied natural gas
LTIF Lost time injury frequency
MAC Murujuga Aboriginal Corporation
NWS North West Shelf
NYFL Ngarluma Yindjibarndi Foundation Limited
PSE Process safety event
RAP Reconciliation Action Plan
Renewable 
energy  Any form of energy from biological, geophysical or solar 
sources that replenishes itself by natural processes at a rate 
that is equal to or greater than its rate of use
SDG Sustainable Development Goals
STEM Science, technology, engineering and mathematics
SustainabilityAchieving a decent standard of living for everyone today
without compromising the needs of future generations.
(United Nations, 2013)
TRIR Total recordable injury rate
UpstreamIndustry term for operations relating to exploring for,
developing and producing as well as marketing crude
oil and natural gas. This includes transporting crude
oil, natural gas and petroleum products by pipeline or
marine vessel.
VPSHR Voluntary principles on security and human rights
A$ Australian dollars 
bn billion
boe barrel of oil equivalent
CO₂-e carbon dioxide equivalentkt kilotonne
t tonne
tCO₂-e tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
USD US dollarsGlossary
Terms
UnitsWoodside Petroleum Ltd  |  Sustainable Development Report 2019  47Sustainable Development Report 2019
Head Office:
Woodside Petroleum Ltd
Mia Yellagonga
11 Mount Street
Perth WA 6000
Postal Address:
GPO Box D188
Perth WA 6840
Australia
T: +61 8 9348 4000
F: +61 8 9214 2777
E: companyinfo@woodside.com.au
Woodside Petroleum Ltd
ABN 55 004 898 962
woodside.com.au
