SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT 
REPORT
2 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020
On the cover 
The cover features a local Murujuga Ranger and Woodside 
employee sharing knowledge of the Burrup Peninsula in 
Western Australia (WA), traditionally known as Murujuga.
We continue to support the Murujuga Ranger program and 
its important work to enrich the ongoing research, protection 
and management of Murujuga.
About this report 
This report provides an overview of Woodside’s sustainability 
approach and performance for the 12-month period from  
1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020. The report was  
approved by Woodside’s Board of Directors. 
Scope 
Woodside Petroleum Ltd (ABN 55 004 898 962) is the ultimate 
holding company of the Woodside Group of Companies. In 
this report, unless otherwise stated, references to “Woodside”, 
“our”, “us” or “we” refer to Woodside Petroleum Ltd and its 
controlled entities. The information in this report covers all 
sites and production facilities wholly owned and operated by 
Woodside, and/or operated by Woodside in a joint venture, with 
the exception of environmental performance data, which is also 
reported on an equity basis that includes our non-operated assets. 
Health and safety, and people performance data is reported 
on a total operated basis. Health and safety data includes 
international exploration activity. Social contributions are 
Woodside equity only.
Our Annual Report 2020 
Our Annual Report 2020 provides a summary of Woodside’s 
operations, activities and financial position as at 31 December 
2020, which should be read in conjunction with this Sustainable Development Report 2020 to give a full overview 
of Woodside’s business. Copies of the Annual Report 2020 are 
available on request or may be downloaded from our website.
Reporting frameworks 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards core option and with 
reference to the IPIECA API and IOGP (2020) Sustainability 
Reporting Guidance for the oil and gas industry. IPIECA is the 
global oil and gas industry association for environmental and 
social issues. 
Report feedback 
We welcome your feedback on our report via  
Communities@woodside.com.au
External assurance 
A copy of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu's assurance statement 
is available on our website. Deloitte has conducted limited 
assurance over selected information in this report and the 
associated data tables. Our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas 
emissions data is assured by GHD and our social investment 
contribution is verified by Business for Societal Impact 
(formerly London Benchmarking Group).Acknowledging country
Woodside recognises Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander peoples as Australia’s first peoples. We also 
acknowledge the unique connection that Indigenous 
communities have to land, waters and the environment. 
We extend this recognition and respect to Indigenous 
peoples and communities around the world.
Refer to our website for our GRI and IPIECA content indices.
We are working with Green ReportsTM on 
an initiative ensuring that communications 
minimise environmental impact and create a 
more sustainable future for the community.WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OVERVIEW  3
CONTENTS
Overview 
About us 4
2020 highlights 5
Message from our Sustainability Committee Chair 6
Message from our CEO 7
Materiality 8
Sustainability targets 9
Our stakeholders  10
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals  12
Our people 14
Health, safety and wellbeing 15
Social and cultural impacts on communities 18
People and culture 22
Business continuity 25
Human rights  26
Our environment 28
Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions 29
Environment 31Our approach 33
Corporate governance 34
Major incident preparedness 35
Transparency 36
Fraud, anti-bribery and corruption 38
Supply chain and local content 39
Regulatory compliance  40
Our future 41
Business resilience 42
Cybersecurity 44
Innovation and technology 45
Data tables 47
Notes and definitions 51
Glossary 514 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020ABOUT US
We have a focused portfolio and are recognised for our world-
class capabilities as an integrated upstream supplier of energy. 
As Australia’s leading LNG operator, we operated 6% of global 
LNG supply in 2020. LNG is a lower-emissions, competitive 
fuel ideally suited to supporting decarbonisation and 
improving air quality.
In WA, we are building on more than 30 years of experience 
and progressing development of the Scarborough gas 
resource through the world-class Pluto LNG facility. We are 
also connecting Pluto LNG with the landmark North West 
Shelf (NWS) Project to create an integrated LNG production 
hub on the Burrup Peninsula.  
Offshore, we operate two floating production storage and 
offloading (FPSO) facilities, the Okha and Ngujima-Yin.  
Our operated assets are renowned for their safety, reliability, 
efficiency and environmental performance. Internationally, we are executing the Sangomar Field 
Development in Senegal and are also progressing the A-6 
Development in Myanmar. 
We are working to improve our energy efficiency, offset our 
emissions, and develop options for lower-carbon energy. We 
have set clear targets to reduce our net emissions in line with 
our aspiration to achieve net zero by 2050. 
Technology and innovation are essential to our long-term 
sustainability. We are pioneering remote support and the 
application of artificial intelligence, embedding advanced 
analytics across our operations. 
Our success is driven by our people, and we aim to attract, 
develop and retain a diverse, high-performing workforce. 
We recognise that enduring, meaningful relationships with 
communities are fundamental to maintaining our licence 
to operate. We actively seek to build relationships with 
stakeholders who are interested in or affected by our activities.  
Focus areasWoodside led the development of the liquefied natural gas (LNG) industry in Australia  
and is applying this same pioneering spirit to solving energy challenges.
North West Shelf Project
Pluto
Wheatstone
Scarborough
Browse
Okha FPSO
Ngujima-Yin FPSO
* Denotes marketing office Refer to the Asset Facts section on page 134 of the Annual Report 2020 for full details of Woodside's global interests.Singapore*
Perth  
Woodside 
HeadquartersTokyo*Beijing*
Seoul*
Timor-Leste / Australia
SenegalMyanmar Canada
Gas Producing assets Product type Phase Appraisal and exploration Developments OilWOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OVERVIEW  5
A$707  A$23.5
PAID IN 2020 TO AUSTRALIAN 
FEDERAL AND STATE 
GOVERNMENTSOUR TOTAL 
SOCIAL  
CONTRIBUTION0.88  
TOTAL RECORDABLE 
INJURY RATE (TRIR) PER 
MILLION WORK HOURSIMPROVEMENT IN ENERGY 
EFFICIENCY AGAINST  
BASELINE, 2016–2020 2020 HIGHLIGHTS
8% 
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG)  
RATINGS PERFORMANCE
CORPORATE  
SUSTAINABILITY  
ASSESSMENT RESULTS
We scored 77/100 in the 2020 
assessment, placing us in the top  
5% of 59 industry peers, and resulting 
in selection in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indices.TOP 5% OF  
INDUSTRY  
PEERSMAINTAINED 
AAA LEADER 
RATINGMORGAN STANLEY  
CAPITAL INTERNATIONAL
Our ESG risk rating improved  
to 23.4, placing us in the top 2%  
of 271 industry peers and 
maintaining our medium risk rating. TOP 2% OF 
INDUSTRY 
PEERSSUSTAINALYTICS
BEST–EVER PERSONAL  
SAFETY PERFORMANCE
TAX AND ROYALTIES  
CONTRIBUTIONSOCIAL  
CONTRIBUTIONENERGY  
EFFICIENCYMILLION
MILLION6 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020Woodside’s commitment to sustainability is at the heart of 
our business today and drives our thinking about what we will 
become in the decades ahead. 
The health crisis that has engulfed the world has brought with it 
social and economic disruption, but it has also heightened our 
sense of shared responsibility for creating a better future. 
In 2020, perhaps more than any other year, external conditions 
have influenced Woodside’s people, operations and growth 
plans. But equally those factors have sharpened, not shaken, 
our long-term commitment to our core values, relationships and 
business strategy. 
They have reinforced the crucial importance of protecting our 
environment and the cultural heritage of our Traditional Owners 
and Custodians. 
They have prompted us to intensify our response to climate 
change to achieve our aspiration of carbon neutrality by 2050. 
They have strengthened our resolve to remain a resilient 
supplier of affordable, lower-carbon gas to a world that 
needs it, and to be at the forefront of developing new energy 
technologies, such as hydrogen. 
And under difficult conditions, we achieved the majority of the 
2020 sustainability targets associated with our material topics. 
This included maintaining our outstanding personal safety record, 
because we want every person who works directly or indirectly 
for Woodside to go home safely to their families every day. 
In April 2020, Woodside’s Board agreed on our next steps 
in climate risk management, leading to the development of 
our new emissions targets, and the publication of a report 
concerning our industry association memberships and their 
alignment with our own positions. 
We also reviewed our Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
strategy, expanding our focus to a broader suite of SDGs 
to more clearly demonstrate where our contribution is the 
greatest. The key deliverables for each have been identified 
and progress against these will be published in this report 
each year. We are assisting industry efforts to reduce emissions across  
the LNG value chain and working with our customers to develop 
an approach to address Scope 3 emissions: for example, 
through our technology partnership with JERA Inc, Marubeni 
Corporation and IHI Corporation  to supply low-carbon ammonia 
for power generation in Japan. 
Some of Woodside’s most important relationships are with the 
Indigenous communities who are the Traditional Custodians of 
the land where we operate. In 2020, we reviewed the cultural 
heritage risks associated with our current and future activities, 
to ensure that our management is thorough, transparent and 
underpinned by close engagement with Traditional Owners 
and Custodians. 
In Woodside's view, Traditional Owners and Custodians 
must be central to heritage management to ensure that 
cultural values are understood and remain protected, and 
that our operations can continue to coexist sustainably with 
those values. 
In a year that has been characterised by social upheaval 
and in which everyone in the company, including the Board, 
has had to be flexible in their work practices, our people 
have again proven to be Woodside’s greatest asset. The 
adaptability, ingenuity and resilience they have demonstrated 
in 2020 is being reflected in our ongoing commitment to 
being part of a sustainable future. 
Ann Pickard
Chair of the Sustainability Committee
BOARD SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
Ann Pickard
Ian Macfarlane
Sarah Ryan
Christopher Haynes, OBE
Larry Archibald
Swee Chen GohMESSAGE FROM  
OUR SUSTAINABILITY 
COMMITTEE CHAIR
 
WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OVERVIEW  7When we issued our Sustainable Development Report this time 
last year, few could have predicted what was to unfold over 
the course of 2020. The emergence and spread of COVID-19 
challenged us all in both our personal and work lives. 
Woodside’s priority throughout the pandemic has been to protect 
the health and safety of our people, contractors and communities. 
We ensured continued reliable energy supply to customers 
while maintaining the operational integrity and resilience of our 
business in a lower commodity price environment. 
In 2020, we further improved on the personal safety record 
achieved in 2019, demonstrating sustained performance 
despite the COVID-related changes required in work practices 
across our operations. 
This year we refined our response to climate change, which is 
founded on our strategy of building and maintaining a carbon-
resilient portfolio of LNG and new technology fuels to help reduce 
global emissions. The strategy is now being overseen by a Senior 
Vice President Climate who is part of our executive committee 
and reports directly to me. 
We also continued to provide enhanced transparency into 
our business, publishing a review of industry association 
memberships for alignment with Woodside’s climate change 
policy positions. 
Having achieved the 5% improvement in energy efficiency 
against baseline we set for ourselves in 2016, we established 
new targets toward our aspiration of carbon neutrality by 2050. 
We are now targeting reductions in our equity share of Scope 1 
and 2 greenhouse gas emissions against the average of the last 
five years of 15% by 2025 and 30% by 20301. 
To achieve these targets, and ensure our business is resilient 
for the long term, we will accelerate our efforts across multiple 
fronts. We will continue avoiding and reducing emissions in the 
way we design and operate our facilities, as well as originating 
and acquiring quality offsets. We are pursuing carbon capture and storage opportunities, and 
we have the building blocks in place for a hydrogen business that 
can scale at the pace of the world’s energy transition.   
As part of our agreement with Greening Australia, we planted  
3.6 million native trees on three properties acquired for that 
purpose in WA. 
Other partnerships have also progressed in 2020: the HyNet 
consortium of which we are part opened its first seven hydrogen 
vehicle-fuelling stations in Korea; and our H2TAS renewable 
hydrogen joint venture with Countrywide Renewable Energy was 
one of seven shortlisted for funding by the Australian Renewable 
Energy Agency. 
This year it was more important than ever that we looked after 
each other, both inside and outside our organisation. 
We focused on supporting the mental, physical and social 
health of our people and their families, maturing our wellbeing 
framework to a point that it was adopted early in the pandemic 
by the national industry body. 
In our communities, we provided extra support for organisations 
that were assisting those most vulnerable due to homelessness 
or isolation, family breakdown and health issues. Our employees 
also showed their commitment through record giving to our 
community partners. 
The events of 2020 have been a stark reminder that the world 
we live in is fragile, dynamic and uncertain. I’m proud of how 
Woodside and its people have responded by redoubling our 
commitment to a sustainable future.
MESSAGE FROM  
OUR CEO
1. Baseline is set as the average gross equity Scope 1 and 2 emissions over 2016-2020 and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in producing or 
sanctioned assets, with an FID prior to 2021.Peter Coleman
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director 
8 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020MATERIALITY
We conduct a comprehensive materiality assessment each year to determine  
which sustainability topics are important to our business and our stakeholders. 
Our annual materiality assessment involves an in-depth study 
of a range of internal and external inputs, interviews with key 
stakeholders and an online stakeholder survey to identify and 
prioritise relevant topics. This is followed by a verification 
process with our senior leaders. 
The resulting topics are then classified as material, significant 
or important and monitored throughout the year to ensure 
our management plans align with stakeholder expectations. 
In 2020, our material topics remained unchanged from 2019.
The driver for social and cultural impacts on communities being a material topic in 2020 changed from a focus on 
potential social impacts of our developments on the Burrup 
Peninsula to cultural heritage management. 
Two new topics emerged in the assessment: business 
resilience and business continuity. Business resilience 
relates to our role in the energy transition as the world 
looks for cleaner sources of energy. Business continuity is 
the ability to operate our critical business functions and 
meet commitments to our employees, customers and other 
stakeholders during the COVID-19 pandemic.
* represents new topic identified in the 2020 materiality assessment.•  Climate change and  
greenhouse gas emissions•  Health, safety and  
wellbeing •  Social and cultural  
impacts on communities 
• Business continuity* 
•  Fraud, anti-bribery and  
corruption• Human rights 
• Innovation and technology 
• Regulatory compliance•  Supply chain and  
local content 
• Transparency MATERIAL TOPICS
• Business resilience* 
• Corporate governance • Cybersecurity
• Environment • Major incident preparedness 
• People and cultureSIGNIFICANT TOPICS
IMPORTANT  TOPICSFOUR-STEP PROCESS FOR MATERIALITY
01 02 03 04
IDENTIFY
A wide range of 
sustainability topics 
is identified by a 
desktop studyPRIORITISE
Topics are ranked based on 
their importance to the business 
and external stakeholders using 
a range of inputs, before being 
classified as material, significant 
or important VALIDATE
The classification of 
topics is validated by our 
Executive Committee 
and the Board’s 
Sustainability CommitteeREVIEW
The materiality 
process is reviewed to 
identify improvement 
areas and track 
emerging issues WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OVERVIEW  9SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS
Our sustainability targets help us to remain motivated and focused in achieving our 
goals and to strive to be better. The targets are included in our corporate scorecard, 
Executive Committee reporting and divisional and functional performance agreements.
MATERIAL TOPIC 2020 TARGET 2020 PERFORMANCE 2021 TARGET
Climate change 
and greenhouse 
gas emissionsAchieve 5% energy  
efficiency improvement  
against baseline1 8% improvement in energy 
efficiency against baseline, 
2016–2020Commence delivery of new 
2025 and 2030 emissions 
reduction targets
Health and safety 
performanceTotal recordable injuries rate 
per million work hours (TRIR) 
at or below 1.10, which is below 
our three-year rolling average0.88 TRIRTRIR at or below 1, which is 
below our three-year rolling 
average
One or fewer Tier 1 or Tier 2 loss 
of primary containment process 
safety eventsOne Tier 1 and two Tier 2 
loss of primary containment 
process safety eventsOne or fewer Tier 1 or Tier 2 
loss of primary containment 
process safety events
Social and cultural  
impacts on 
communitiesEffectively implement 
social impact and 
opportunity management 
plans for communities 
where we are activeSocial impact management 
plans have been embedded 
and are supporting social 
performance in the 
communities where  
we operateEmbed social performance 
framework across the 
business - communities 
assessments completed and 
social performance plans 
in place for our operations 
and projects 
Deliver the 2016–2020 
Reconciliation Action PlanAchieved positive outcomes 
against the three key pillars 
of respect, relationships  
and opportunities in the 
2016–2020 Reconciliation 
Action PlanImplement the new  
2021–2025 Reconciliation 
Action Plan
1. The efficiency improvement target against baseline performance (%) is measured relative to product energy efficiency prior to 2016.  
This aligns with Woodside’s aim to improve energy efficiency by 5% by 2020. Refer to pages 29–30 for more information.10  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020OUR STAKEHOLDERS
We are committed to engaging our stakeholders in a transparent and meaningful way.  
This helps us to understand and manage our impacts and enhance mutually beneficial outcomes.
The table below outlines how we engage with our key stakeholder groups, what matters to them and how we respond. As part of 
compiling this report we consulted representatives from each group to understand topics of importance to them, as outlined on page 8.
STAKEHOLDER HOW WE LISTEN WHAT MATTERS HOW WE RESPOND
CUSTOMERS •  Regular engagements to 
manage delivery of liquids,  
LNG and domestic gas
•  Proactive engagements  
to understand short-, medium-  
and long-term needs
 •  In-country representatives 
with marketing offices in four 
locations•  Reliable and safe product 
delivery
•  Production and operational  
risk management
•  Production quality and cost
•  Health and safety performance 
including shipping operations
• Working sustainably•  Focus on safe and reliable 
operations
•  Develop projects to meet 
customers’ energy needs
•  Deliver supply arrangements 
tailored to customer 
requirements
•  Site visits and staff exchanges
EMPLOYEES •  Regular feedback sessions, 
performance reviews and 
personal development plans
• Employee surveys
•  Regular CEO and Executive 
Committee employee lunches 
•  Divisional and functional 
townhalls and team meetings•  Feeling engaged and being 
enabled to do their job
•  Regular performance feedback
•  Career development 
opportunities
•  Fostering a values-led 
organisational culture that 
optimises performance
•  Health and safety performance, 
including mental health and 
wellbeing•  Promote our Compass values
•  Ongoing safety, health and  
wellbeing initiatives
•  Annual staff briefing with the 
CEO and senior executives
•  Annual Woodside Awards, 
recognising outstanding 
employee achievement  
and contribution
•  Regular virtual Ask the CEO 
engagement sessions with the 
entire workforce
INVESTORS  
AND FINANCE  
PROVIDERS•  Regular meetings with investor 
representatives and financiers•  Superior shareholder returns
•  Management of financial and 
non-financial risks
•  High-quality corporate 
governance
•  Climate change risk management
•  Health and safety performance•  Investor briefings
•  Full-year and half-year results 
briefings
•  Annual General Meeting
•  Australian Securities Exchange 
announcements
•  Commitment to international 
climate reporting frameworks
JOINT VENTURE 
PARTICIPANTS•  Regular meetings and 
videoconferences with joint 
venture committees
•  Participation in business 
reviews and audits•  Health and safety management
•  Reliability of supply, product 
quality, cost and delivery
•  Environment and social impact 
management
•  Growth opportunities
•  Governance and transparencyWork collaboratively:
•  To safely deliver operations  
and growth
•  To manage COVID-19 impacts  
and risk
•  To identify and engage  
with stakeholdersWOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OVERVIEW  11STAKEHOLDER HOW WE LISTEN WHAT MATTERSs HOW WE RESPOND
LOCAL AND 
INDIGENOUS 
COMMUNITIES•  Regular community and 
cultural heritage meetings
•  Community perception surveys
•  Community grievance 
mechanism
•  Community events and 
information sessions
• Local social media channels•  Local employment and 
contracting opportunities
•  Economic benefits
•  Cultural heritage management
•  Cost of living and potential 
impacts on local services
•  Cultural safety•  Regular community 
consultations
•  Local jobs portal and suppliers' 
forums
•  Targeted social investment 
programs
•  Develop, implement and 
maintain Indigenous agreements 
•  Monitor community social 
indicators
LOCAL, STATE 
AND FEDERAL 
GOVERNMENTS•  Ongoing dialogue with 
regulators, government 
agencies and broad range of 
political stakeholders•  Economic benefits 
•  Responsible oil and gas 
resource development 
•  Environmental, cultural heritage, 
social and financial performance 
•  Climate change and 
greenhouse gas emissions 
•  Regulatory compliance 
•  Transparency•  Regular engagement with  
all levels of government 
•  Direct submissions to state 
and federal governments’ 
consultation processes 
•  Contribute to domestic and 
international industry and 
business associations
NON-GOVERNMENT 
ORGANISATIONS  •  Input into social and 
environmental impact 
assessments 
•  Regular participation 
in industry forums and 
associations•  Climate change and 
greenhouse gas emissions 
•  Environmental impacts 
•  Anti-bribery and corruption 
•  Transparency 
•  Human rights•  Engagement on growth projects
•  Commitment to international 
climate initiatives and reporting 
frameworks
•  Partnerships for environmental 
research
•  Participation in the Extractive 
Industries Transparency 
Initiative (EITI)
•  Actively engage in the 
Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights
SUPPLIERS AND 
CONTRACTORS  •  Supplier networking events
•  Workshops with local  
business networks
•  Regular reciprocal supplier 
performance reviews 
•  Embedded supplier relationship 
management with our Tier 1 
suppliers 
•  Supplier feedback survey•  Supply opportunities for  
growth projects 
•  Health and safety 
•  Supporting Indigenous and 
local contractors 
•  Technology and innovation 
•  Capable and effective 
employees•  Collaborate to deliver tangible 
safety improvements 
•  Provide supplier forums  
for growth projects 
•  Collaborate to improve Indigenous 
engagement outcomes 
•  Support programs to  
develop local business  
capacity and capability12  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
PRIMARY GOALSThe United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) aim to address some of the 
world’s most urgent economic, social and environmental challenges. Each goal is measured by 
underlying targets. The SDGs call for action from governments, business and society worldwide. 
Business has an important role to play in contributing to 
the SDGs and in supporting sustainable development, 
through influence in businesses operations, supply chains, 
infrastructure and employment opportunities. 
For the past three years, we have measured our progress against 
five key SDGs. In 2020, we finalised a review of our SDGs strategy 
to assess whether these five SDGs still best represent our 
contribution and align with the underlying SDG targets. 
The review considered our value chain, our risks and 
opportunities, our materiality assessment, views of key internal 
stakeholders and the approaches of our peers. The resulting revised strategy expands our focus to a broader 
suite of SDGs that better reflect our contribution to the 
global sustainability agenda. We classified these SDGs into 
tiers, to more clearly demonstrate where we are making the 
most significant contribution, acknowledging that SDG17: 
Partnerships for the Goals underpins our strategy. 
Key deliverables for each goal have been identified and 
progress against these will be published annually in our 
Sustainable Development Report.
OUR ASPIRATION
Continue to provide LNG as a cleaner source of fuel for global markets and pursue the development 
of lower- and zero-carbon energy sources.RELATED TARGETS
7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.a
OUR DELIVERABLES
•  Continue to provide cost-competitive LNG through our existing 
facilities and growth projects
•  Develop new markets for LNG as a lower-emissions fuel in  
trucking and shipping•  Diversify our business into supplying lower- and zero-carbon 
energy sources for the future, particularly investigating the 
potential for hydrogen and exploring technologies that use  
carbon dioxide at scale
•  Develop a business to originate and acquire quality carbon offsets
OUR ASPIRATION
Continue to support economic growth as a supportive and responsible employer.RELATED TARGETS
8.5, 8.6, 8.7 
OUR DELIVERABLES
•  Continue to provide and support apprenticeships, traineeships 
and Indigenous participation in education pathway programs 
 •  Conduct human rights due-diligence activities, including country 
risk assessments and human rights assessments 
•  Develop local capabilities, support training initiatives and 
offer employment opportunities with a focus on oil and gas 
disciplines in Senegal•  Continue to ensure controls and monitoring are in place to achieve 
equitable pay for all employees
•  Provide business capacity and capability development 
opportunities for local and Indigenous businesses in communities 
neighbouring our Australian operations
•  Collaborate with Yangon Technological University in Myanmar  
to build in-country capacity and knowledge.
OUR ASPIRATION
Set short- and medium-term climate change targets, underpinned by action to 
minimise climate change and its impacts.RELATED TARGETS
13.1, 13.3 
OUR DELIVERABLES
•  Reduce emissions to 15% below baseline by 20251 
•  Reduce emissions to 30% below baseline by 20301•  Support international efforts including the World Bank's Zero 
Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative, the Methane Guiding Principles, 
and the International Energy Trading Association's Markets for 
Natural Climate Solutions initiative
1. Baseline is set as the average gross equity Scope 1 and 2 emissions over 2016-2020 and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in producing  
or sanctioned assets, with an FID prior to 2021.WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OVERVIEW  13SECONDARY GOALS
UNDERPINNING GOALOUR ASPIRATION
Support quality education and lifelong learning opportunities.RELATED TARGETS
4.2, 4.4, 4.5
OUR DELIVERABLES
•  Work collaboratively through the Woodside Development Fund to 
reduce developmental vulnerability and improve early childhood 
outcomes in communities where we are active
•  Support the Karratha and Roebourne Education Initiatives – 
through the NWS Joint Venture (JV) – to provide high-quality 
educational opportunities for students and professional 
development opportunities for their teachers•  Continue to partner with Earth Science Western Australia to 
deliver the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths) 
in Schools program to primary and high school students in WA
•  Support science, technology, engineering and maths initiatives 
through partnerships with Scitech, Monash University and 
University of Western Australia (UWA)
OUR ASPIRATION
Continue to improve productivity and energy efficiency by embracing technology and innovation.RELATED TARGETS
9.4, 9.5
OUR DELIVERABLES
•  Leverage Woodside’s FutureLab program hubs at Australian 
universities to work with researchers, entrepreneurs, subject-
matter experts and parallel leading industries to solve industry 
challenges and create shared opportunities
•  Invest A$40 million in facilities and research to progress 
Australia's transition to a lower-carbon economy through the 
Woodside Monash Energy Partnership•  Improve our operations and processes through adoption of  
more efficient technologies and ways of working to reduce 
emissions improvements in industrial processes to meet our 
energy efficiency target
OUR ASPIRATION
Uphold robust environmental management and process safety practices to minimise our impact on marine 
environments and partner with research institutions to contribute to knowledge of these areas.
OUR ASPIRATION
We work with our key stakeholder groups to enhance our contribution across our primary and secondary SDGs.RELATED TARGET
14.1, 14.2
OUR DELIVERABLES
•  Maintain high levels of oil spill preparedness and response 
capability through our testing and simulation program 
•  Develop our in-country hydrocarbon spill response capability in 
Senegal including planning, ensuring essential equipment and 
provision of training to local responders•  Continue to collect and share scientific information on coastal 
and offshore biodiversity with key research organisations to 
support effective marine planning and management
OUR ASPIRATION
Improve air quality and degraded habitats through restoration and sustainable use of land.RELATED TARGET
15.3
OUR DELIVERABLES
•  Undertake quality carbon offset projects that deliver co-benefits 
including land restoration and biodiversity outcomes OUR ASPIRATION
We will support social outcomes through protection, recognition and respect for Indigenous culture and heritage.RELATED TARGET
11.4
OUR DELIVERABLES
•  Support cultural heritage management initiatives proposed by 
Traditional Owners and Custodians through engagement and 
consultation, including programs to facilitate the transfer of  
cultural knowledge and values•  Fund Indigenous ranger programs that protect cultural  
and natural heritage and regenerate country
•  Support credible and robust scientific research to further 
understand our potential environmental impacts on Indigenous 
cultural heritage14  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020
OUR  PEOPLEOur approach 
To sustain strong outcomes we expect our people and 
our contractor partners to demonstrate unwavering 
commitment to their own health, safety and wellbeing, 
and the care of others. Our expectations are underpinned 
in our foundational Safety Culture Framework, Golden 
Safety Rules and Perfect HSE Day initiative and tools. 
Perfect HSE Day concept aims to make a positive change 
to our health, safety and environment (HSE) culture and 
performance by creating a common language about risks 
and outcomes tailored to individual working teams. This 
provides a consistent structure across the company that 
everyone can relate to.
Our Golden Safety Rules are designed to address high-
consequence injury risk by clearly communicating the 
mandatory requirements for safety in our workplaces. 
They were first introduced in 2005 and apply to all of our 
employees and contractors.
We are implementing a three-year program of targeted 
HSE campaigns to maintain and improve our HSE 
performance and culture. In 2019, we focused on "Our 
Foundations: We Support Each Other". In 2020 our theme 
was "Taking Action: Our Behaviours Matter" and in 2021 we 
will promote "Sustaining Focus: We Learn and Improve". 
WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR PEOPLE  15
HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING
Woodside is committed to providing workplaces where our people and our 
contractors are physically and psychologically safe, healthy and well. 
2020 HIGHLIGHTS 
•  Sustained improvement in health and safety  
performance achieving our best–ever TRIR 
•  Implemented controls and provided support to 
keep our people healthy and safe during COVID-19
•  Introduced a wellbeing framework encompassing 
multifaceted training, tools and support for our 
people and their families
•  Analyse feedback 
from biennial safety 
perception survey to 
identify ways to further 
mature our safety culture 
•  Embed wellbeing 
framework across our 
management system and 
develop organisational-
wide focus on 
psychological safety 
•  Maintain focus on learning 
from significant events to 
ensure actions are effective 
to prevent reoccurrence•  Failure to maintain 
safe, healthy and 
wellbeing focused 
workplaces
•  Loss of focus 
and leadership of 
technical integrity 
and process safety 
•  Ability to support 
global project 
execution in 
challenging locations 
and support new 
energy opportunities 
More information can be found on our website.MATERIAL TOPIC
OPPORTUNITIES RISKSOUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE16  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020Our personal safety performance 
In 2020, we achieved our best–ever personal safety performance, 
with a TRIR of 0.88, just below our 2019 result of 0.90. This 
achievement demonstrates sustained performance despite the 
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. A positive reporting culture 
is key to performance. In 2020, our personal safety performance 
metrics have trended well, demonstrating an engaged workforce. 
We continually seek to learn and improve how we create safe 
and healthy workplaces with an emerging focus on the use of 
technology to reduce risk. We are exploring robotic solutions to 
aid in facility inspections, which can be done while the facility is 
still operational or in high-risk situations. 
Our process safety performance 
In 2020, we had 11 high potential incidents, compared with 19 
in 2019, and continued proactive reporting of safety hazards.
Nominees for the inaugural bi-annual CEO HSE Recognition Award with their business leadersTotal recordable injuries (TRI) and TRIR
Employee TRI
Contractor TRI
Woodside TRIR1.64
1.29 1.32
0.900.8821
11
817
12
18 19 20 16 172 3 3 6 5We experienced one Tier 1 and two Tier 2 loss of primary 
containment process safety events (LOPC PSEs), compared to 
zero in 2019. These events caused no significant environmental 
impact. To help us learn and improve, in 2021 our assets will 
also focus on Tier 3 LOPC PSEs, in addition to Tier 1 and Tier 2. 
The Tier 3 LOPC PSEs are of lesser consequence, but can help 
us to identify trends and take corrective actions to prevent 
higher consequence incidents occurring.  
Our safety culture
To assess our safety culture journey, a biennial safety 
perception survey was conducted in 2018 and 2020 with 
both employees and contractors participating. The survey is 
designed to measure safety culture maturity against global 
data and in comparison to best-practice organisations. 
The 2018 results instigated seven company-wide focus areas, 
all of which have been actioned. An example of one initiative 
was the introduction of a bi-annual CEO HSE Recognition 
Award. This award recognises consistent and visible health, 
safety, wellbeing and environmental leadership across every 
level of the organisation. Each executive committee member 
nominates a finalist and the CEO selects the overall winner. 
Feedback from the 2020 survey will be used to support 2021 
HSE activity plans, which are brought to life by our Woodside 
Workplaces, Wellness and Wellbeing network of more than 
150 volunteers across our business. WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR PEOPLE  17Wellbeing 
Workplaces that promote mental health and psychological 
safety are vital to building trust and respect. By investing in 
mental health and wellbeing programs, we aim to improve 
health, safety and business outcomes. 
Our 2020 plan to enhance awareness, understanding 
and support for holistic wellbeing was accelerated by the 
COVID-19 pandemic. We engaged and supported our people 
and their families using a wellbeing wheel that encourages 
positive preventative practices across six areas: physical 
health, exercise, psychological skills, social connection, 
meaning and purpose, and positive relationships. 
The wellbeing wheel is complemented by our wellbeing 
framework and mental health support framework, which 
equip our people and their families with knowledge to 
proactively manage their own wellbeing and provides access 
to tools and support for early intervention and recovery.   
In 2021, we will work to embed the wellbeing framework across 
our management system, develop organisational-wide focus 
on psychological safety and introduce leading indicators to 
monitor and track the trend of the wellbeing of our workforce. 
In addition to promoting a mentally healthy workforce, we 
also achieved our allocated target for fitness for work in 
2020 of 95% compliance with periodic medicals.
COVID-19 response 
Central to our pandemic response has been making risk-
based decisions to implement preventative controls and our 
preparedness to respond to protect the welfare of our people 
in every workplace. The risk of the COVID-19 pandemic 
negatively impacting the health, safety and wellbeing of our 
people remains substantive.
Business continuity in 2020 was supported by a specific 
and tailored focus on fatigue, distraction, stress, uncertainty, 
physical health, exercise and mental wellbeing. A range of 
support was established for our people and their families, with 
extraordinary focus on our asset-based teams who adjusted to 
extended working rosters and quarantine requirements. 
Our Employee Assistance Program provider held focus 
sessions with supervisors and managers, providing advice 
on proactive personal wellbeing management and how to 
identify and support employees showing signs of stress.
In the early stages of the pandemic, our COVID-19 Wellbeing 
Framework was shared nationally by Safer Together and 
Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association 
(APPEA) industry collaborations. We continue to work 
closely with Safer Together, APPEA and the Chamber of 
Minerals and Energy WA on advocacy and collaborative 
support for the people in our industry.Our contract partners 
Historical performance demonstrates that our contractors are 
more likely to be injured at our facilities than our people. This 
is linked to the complexity and intrinsically higher-risk nature 
of the work that our contractors perform. 
Through audit feedback and engagement with our contract 
partners at the Karratha Gas Plant (KGP), we identified 
several areas for improvement in our HSE contracting 
process, both pre- and post-award. During 2020, we 
fundamentally improved our management system, and our 
contracting and procurement processes, tools and training. 
The improvements simplified risk assessments, clarified 
accountabilities and redefined contracting assurance 
processes, improving HSE risks management throughout our 
contract management lifecycle.
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE18  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020We recognise the importance of our role to manage the impacts of our activities on 
communities to deliver mutual and sustainable social outcomes in the areas where we operate. 
2020 HIGHLIGHTS 
• Matured our framework for social performance 
•  Established the COVID-19 Community Fund providing 
direct support to local community organisations 
•  Completion of the 2016–2020 RAP with positive outcomes SOCIAL AND CULTURAL 
IMPACTS ON COMMUNITIES
•  Embed the social 
performance framework 
across the business,  
with a focus on  
operations and projects
•  Enhance local 
employment and 
contracting opportunities
•  Measure progress by 
reporting on community 
dashboard indicators •  Adverse impacts on 
cultural heritage 
•  Inadequate consultation 
with community 
stakeholders 
•  Failure to manage 
adverse social impacts 
of our activities 
•  Suboptimal outcomes 
from our social 
contributions 
Our approach  
Woodside’s interactions with the communities where we are 
active are guided by our Sustainable Communities Policy 
and our Indigenous Communities Policy. During the year, 
we refreshed our Indigenous Communities Policy to reflect 
current stakeholder expectations and better demonstrate 
support for Indigenous-led solutions. 
We also reviewed our social performance framework to 
better identify and understand community and stakeholder 
risks and impacts. We piloted the refreshed framework for 
our Pilbara operations, including an assessment for our 
neighbouring communities. This will inform forward priorities 
and a monitoring framework to measure the effectiveness of 
our implementation. Meaningful engagement  
We seek to understand the expectations of the communities 
where we are active and share information about our 
activities. During the year, we hosted four meetings with our 
Karratha Community Liaison Group. 
Key topics discussed at the meetings included housing 
and accommodation, local contracting, employment and 
training opportunities, approvals for our growth projects, 
the environment and pressure on local medical services. We 
also participated in three joint-operator Exmouth Oil and Gas 
Community Reference Group meetings. 
We continued to meet with Traditional Owners and Custodians 
in Karratha and Roebourne on a quarterly basis to discuss 
cultural heritage management on the Burrup Peninsula, 
adjacent to our onshore NWS Project and Pluto LNG sites, 
and other matters including Indigenous contracting and 
employment, and social investment. 
We participated in more than 250 engagements with 
Traditional Owners and Custodians  about our growth projects 
and related environment approvals. 
During the year, we met regularly with Indigenous community 
partner organisations, the Ngarluma Yindjibarndi Foundation 
Limited (NYFL) and the Murujuga Aboriginal Corporation 
(MAC) to discuss the implementation of our agreements and 
key concerns and issues. 
In support of our Sangomar Field Development offshore from 
Senegal, we continued to engage with coastal communities in 
the Dakar, Thiès and Fatick regions. COVID-19 restrictions limited 
our face-to-face meetings to March and November, but our 
reduced in-person contact was supplemented by fact sheets, 
quarterly community newsletters and social media updates. 
In Myanmar, we held six engagements with coastal 
communities about our 2020–2021 offshore exploration 
drilling campaign. These communities are familiar with the 
nature and scale of our deep-water exploration activities 
and no significant concerns or objections were raised. RISKS OPPORTUNITIESMATERIAL TOPICWOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR PEOPLE  19Effectively addressing community concerns 
Our Community Grievance Procedure provides a framework 
to effectively respond to community concerns. We received 
eight community grievances during the year from our Pilbara 
community. These related to a variety of topics including 
concerns about social distancing, housing maintenance 
affecting neighbouring properties and apprentices parking 
in an unauthorised area before being transported to site. 
These concerns were addressed and discussed with relevant 
community members. 
During the year, we developed a localised community 
grievance mechanism for Karratha and Roebourne and for  
our activities in Senegal. 
Understanding and managing our impacts 
We work with local communities to understand and manage 
potential impacts related to our activities. Focus areas we 
monitor with our communities include potential impacts on 
cultural heritage, housing and accommodation, and local 
services and infrastructure.
After the completion of several social impact assessments 
in 2019, we implemented management plans to enhance 
social opportunities and minimise adverse impacts related to 
our Australian operations. In response to the deferral of our 
developments on the Burrup Peninsula in March, we reviewed 
social impact management plans for our existing operations. 
We continue to implement social impact management plans 
for our Senegal activities. 
During the year, we progressed social impact management 
plan commitments for our Bay Village temporary worker 
accommodation facility in Karratha. We worked closely with 
the City of Karratha and facility operator Compass Group to 
engage local businesses and services, as well as provide a trial 
bus service to recreational and business venues for workers to 
be a part of the local community. 
In early 2020, we shared the findings of our social impact 
assessments and previous community perception surveys  
for Karratha, Roebourne and Exmouth with key  
community stakeholders. To minimise stakeholder fatigue, we combined reputation 
and perception surveys for Karratha and Roebourne in late 
2020 and engagement is planned with Exmouth stakeholders 
in early 2021. The survey results will inform our future 
interactions with these communities. 
Internationally, we continue to plan for the commencement 
of project activities, including an offshore drilling campaign 
in mid-2021 for the Sangomar Field Development. The 
Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) for the 
development provides a framework for implementing and 
monitoring mitigation and management measures for key 
environmental and social impacts. We will continue to ensure 
compliance with the ESMP as project activities progress. 
Enhancing local opportunities 
In 2020, we maintained our focus on supporting local training 
and employment outcomes in the communities where we  
are active. Sixty new Karratha-based apprentices and trainees 
commenced at our Karratha Production Training Academy.  
Of these, 49% were of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander 
descent and 49% were women, supporting increased diversity  
in our workforce. 
Through dedicated effort by the Academy we were able to 
adapt or defer training and apprentice programs in response 
to COVID-19; 14 operations trainees from our 2018 intake 
successfully transitioned to our workforce. 
In Senegal, we remain committed to ensuring supply, 
contracting and employment opportunities are created 
for local people, including increasing the number of local 
employees in our Dakar office.
Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) 
In the final year of our Elevate 2016–2020 RAP, we continued 
to progress our commitments under the three key pillars of 
respect, relationships and opportunities. 
The RAP Report and 2021–2025 RAP will be published  
during National Reconciliation Week in May 2021. Since 2017, through our community partnership with Save the Children, the Woodside Development Fund has supported teacher professional development and 
early childhood education in Dakar 
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE20  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020Cultural heritage 
We have worked with Indigenous partners for more than three 
decades on the Burrup Peninsula, also known as Murujuga. 
We recognise the importance of the cultural heritage of the 
region and believe that industry and heritage can coexist. On 
this basis, we support the World Heritage Listing of the Burrup 
Peninsula and continue to work with Indigenous stakeholders 
to minimise our impacts. 
We believe that heritage management should be based in 
agreement making and collaboration, with Traditional Owners 
and Custodians given a central role and voice. 
With input from Traditional Owners and Custodians, we have 
developed and implemented comprehensive cultural heritage 
management plans to monitor and manage our environmental 
impacts on cultural heritage, including rock art. In September, 
we conducted an annual audit of cultural heritage places on our 
lease areas, which found no disturbances of heritage sites.
We recognise the intangible values of the rock art, including 
stories, meanings and ceremonies, and facilitate Traditional 
Owners and Custodians' requests to maintain access to 
heritage sites on our lease areas. 
In 2020, we commenced a review of the Pluto cultural  
heritage procedure and management plan through  
stakeholder engagement and a benchmarking review of  
our heritage practices. We also developed separate management plans for our 
development projects on the Burrup Peninsula, working 
with heritage experts and Traditional Owners and Custodians 
to understand the cultural values of recently discovered 
submerged cultural heritage.
We will consult with Traditional Owners and Custodians and 
other relevant stakeholders to finalise these plans in 2021. 
Through our Burrup Conservation Agreement with the 
Australian Government, we continue to support the Murujuga 
Land and Sea Unit and the important work of its rangers  
to enhance the ongoing management and conservation  
of Murujuga. 
Peer-reviewed research conducted to date has not identified 
any impacts on the region’s rock art from industrial 
emissions. Despite this, we recognise the need for greater 
scientific certainty and are funding several programs to 
verify this. 
We actively participate in the Murujuga Rock Art Stakeholder 
Reference Group with MAC and other industry, government 
and academic stakeholders. The Group oversees the 
implementation of the Murujuga Rock Art Management 
Program, which is planning additional studies on this topic. 
MAC Rangers sharing knowledge on Murujuga15.4 1.2 5.7 1.1
WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR PEOPLE  21
TOTAL SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION SPEND 
Volunteering
More than 1,000 of our 
employees volunteered 
with corporate 
partners during 2020 
with many supporting 
organisations and 
schools remotely 
during the COVID-19 
pandemicStrategic 
partnerships
Established across 
communities where 
Woodside has both a 
presence and impact, 
these seek to build the 
capacity and capability 
of local organisationsMILLIONMILLIONMILLIONMILLION
A$ A$ A$ A$
Woodside 
Development Fund
Focused on improving 
outcomes for children 
from birth to eight years 
through sector capability, 
advocacy and trialling 
collaboration between 
multiple organisations to 
increase impactPhilanthropy
Provided more than 
A$4.7 million in social 
welfare through our 
COVID-19 community 
fund, along with 
A$1 million through 
donations and small 
grants in our regional 
communities
Our COVID-19 Community Fund supported organisations including  
Foodbank WA to respond to increased demand for humanitarian servicesSocial contribution 
In 2020, we contributed A$23.5 million to communities through 
strategic partnerships, the Woodside Development Fund, value 
of staff time spent volunteering and our COVID-19 Community 
Fund. This was in addition to the leveraged spend of A$12 million 
contributed through our joint ventures, employees, government 
funding partnerships and other co-funded initiatives we are 
involved in. 
To support communities facing tough times in response to 
COVID-19, we established the COVID-19 Community Fund,  
which helped more than 70 WA not-for-profit organisations 
respond to the immense social challenges of the pandemic. We 
contributed more than A$4.7 million to support initiatives 
that met critical humanitarian needs, including food security, 
emergency accommodation and health services. 
In the final year of our 2016–2020 social investment strategy, 
we launched an online community partner interface to support 
an outcomes measurement approach across our social 
investment portfolio to streamline partner reporting  
and support data aggregation. 
An independent mid-term review of our ten-year commitment 
to improve early childhood development outcomes under the 
Woodside Development Fund was completed. The review found 
the Fund has created material positive change in service provider 
capability and support for early childhood development, but there 
was room for improvement in impact measurement. 
Looking forward, our new 2021–2025 strategy continues to focus 
on enhancing long-term community capacity and capability, with 
a focus on three social outcome areas: 
1.   Improve knowledge and understanding of the  
environment, climate change, energy and cultural heritage 
2.   Improve early childhood development, quality education 
and lifelong learning opportunities, increased community 
participation in employment and economic diversification 
3.  Support safe, vibrant and sustainable communities 
These focus areas are aligned to our broader strategy to 
contribute to the UN SDGs on pages 12 and 13 and provide a 
framework for investment in our global communities of interest.OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE22  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020Our ability to maximise our base business and build the value of our portfolio is underpinned 
by an engaged and enabled workforce. An inclusive culture that values employee wellbeing  
is key to our success. 
2020 HIGHLIGHTS  
•  Increased Indigenous participation in our directly 
employed workforce to 3.9%
•  Increased female representation across all levels  
of management at or above targets
•  Updated our approach to performance management 
with an increased focus on regular feedback,  
coaching and development
2021 PRIORITIES  
•  Introduce mandatory annual training for all  
employees on Indigenous cultural competency 
•  Implement 2021–2025 Inclusion and Diversity 
strategy with a focus on inclusive leadership and an 
inclusive culture for all employees
•  Deliver a step-change in leadership capability 
through a new approach to leadership onboarding, 
development and assessment PEOPLE AND CULTURE
Our approach   
Woodside’s people strategy focuses on growing outstanding 
leaders, building diverse capability and driving an inclusive 
culture that optimises workforce performance. In line with 
our aspiration to foster a culture that fuels our growth goals, 
we maintain competitive global remuneration and focus on 
employee wellbeing. 
Our human resources and compensation policies are overseen 
by the Board’s Human Resources & Compensation Committee. 
Our performance   
We recognise that an inclusive culture is a high-performing 
culture. This year, we consulted extensively with our workforce 
to shape the development of our 2021–2025 inclusion and 
diversity strategy. We also made strong progress against all 
key inclusion and diversity metrics. 
We enhanced digital capability to enable our people to better 
use technology in their roles through COVID-19, with 1,444 
employees participating in our Digital Academy. 
In response to the dual challenges of COVID-19 and the oil 
price decrease in 2020, we reduced our workforce by about 
300 positions in October to 3,670 people. Our voluntary 
turnover rate reduced to a historic low of 2.9%. COVID-19 response 
Our highest priority is the health and safety of our people.  
In response to hard border closures between states and 
territories in Australia, we supported our people through 
several measures. Fly-in fly-out workers residing outside WA 
were offered options to maintain their employment, through 
flexible working arrangements, leave without pay, paid leave 
(long-service leave and annual leave) and relocation to WA to 
support our operations. 
We updated our relocation policies to provide additional 
benefits and more flexibility to help our employees and their 
families make timely decisions to relocate to WA. Of our 200 
interstate employees, 87  relocated to WA: 80 temporarily 
and 7 permanently. At our international locations, we also 
supported our people and their families, working flexibly to 
keep them safe during the pandemic. 
We supported our leaders by providing them with tools and 
technology to optimise their teams’ performance through  
new ways of working. We also migrated our classroom 
resilience and leadership courses to an online platform to 
ensure continued access. 
We continued our commitment to the recruitment of  
graduates for our 2021 intake through the quick adoption  
of virtual sourcing and interviews, with all candidates reporting 
a positive experience.SIGNIFICANT TOPIC
Leadership and capability 
We take a holistic approach to leadership and technical 
development by evolving the skills and capabilities of our 
people through high-quality learning experiences and 
growth opportunities. 
Our leadership learning pathways support our leaders in areas 
of feedback, coaching and career development conversations. 
In 2020, we refreshed our leadership development approach 
to focus on practical development to equip our leaders and 
technical professionals with the skills to deliver our company 
purpose of being society’s trusted energy partner.
In response to 2019 employee survey results, we established 
a dedicated project team to enhance our performance 
management process and reduce complexity in the way we 
work. In 2020, we introduced key changes to our performance 
management process and received overwhelming positive 
feedback from our workforce. In 2021, we will continue to 
embed the changes and deliver further improvements to 
increase engagement and enablement across the organisation.
Gender balance 
In the final year of our three-year inclusion and gender 
diversity strategy, we achieved growth in female 
representation across all metrics. Female representation 
increased from 31.8% in 2019 to 32.1% in 2020, higher than the 
industry average of 23.1%.
Return from parental leave increased from 97% in 2019 to 99%. 
We met or exceeded female representation targets at all levels 
of management including an increased proportion of women 
in mid-level roles from 32.2% to 34%. Women in senior roles 
also increased from 21.1% in 2019 to 22.6%.  Women in executive roles increased from 23.4% to 26.1%.
Pathway programs secured 49% female trainees and 
apprentices in the 2020 intake across Karratha and Perth. 
In 2020, 51.9% of the Graduate Development Program hires 
were women.
Indigenous participation 
Our directly employed Indigenous workforce increased from  
140 to 144 people, representing 3.9% of our workforce. This 
growth is attributed to the continued success of our pathway 
programs, which create training and employment opportunities 
for local people. In 2020, 55% of our externally hired trainees 
and apprentices were Indigenous, of whom 14% were Traditional 
Owners and Custodians of the areas where we are active.
Our summer vacation program achieved a record high result 
of 9% Indigenous students. Indigenous candidates represented 
6% of the experienced hires and our graduate intake consisted 
of 4% Indigenous representation. 
We continued to focus on growing a pipeline of Indigenous 
candidates, proactively identifying experienced external 
talent with the skillsets needed by the organisation. We also 
developed a Woodside-branded scholarship program to be 
launched in 2021, with a focus on Indigenous students. The 
program offers a suite of benefits including annual vacation 
work and scholarship support for the duration of participants' 
degrees to establish a strong, long-term relationship with us. 
Karratha workforce 
We remain committed to a predominantly residential 
operational workforce in Karratha and continue to work with our 
people on their preferences in line with this plan. Recruitment 
for our development projects on the Burrup Peninsula 
continued to deliver on this strategy whilst also providing 
licence to operate capability. The 2020 intake of externally hired 
trainees and apprentices in Karratha was 100% residential. 
WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR PEOPLE  23Refer to our website for more information on our 
approach to training and development. 
Female representation% of female representation
Company-wide20 16 17 18 19
28.429.030.431.832.1
Executive Committee220 16 17 18 19
0.0037.5
Board120 16 17 18 19
Mid-level20 16 17 18 19
29.428.630.532.234.0
Graduate320 16 17 18 19
50.050.050.9351.8351.93
30.0
30.0
30.0
30.027.222.244.450.0
1. Includes the CEO.
2. Includes the CEO and CEO direct reports.
3. Recalculated to nearest 0.1 of a percentage.OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE24 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020Inclusion and diversity
To maintain our focus on delivering our business priorities, 
despite the challenging market conditions, we continued to 
build a culture where people feel a sense of belonging. 
Highlights from the year included: 
•  Making significant progress towards the development of our 
new 2021–2025 Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) through 
direct engagement with our Indigenous employees and 
Traditional Owners and Custodians. In the most collaborative 
RAP process to date, the voices of our Indigenous 
employees directly shaped our commitments. 
•  Implementing additional support measures for employees 
experiencing family and domestic violence. This included 
training 61 employees across the business to support our 
people experiencing domestic violence and the provision 
of emergency accommodation, specialist counselling and 
safety and security planning. 
•  Piloting Active Bystander Training in Karratha and Perth 
to help our people use inclusive behaviours to combat 
harassment and bullying in the workplace. •  Growing engagement in our employee community groups 
with the Woodside Reconciliation Community and LGBTI+ 
network Spectrum exceeding their membership growth 
goals. Our Gender Equality Matters network also achieved its 
highest participation rate with 34% of our workforce involved. 
•  Exceeding our RAP target of 60% of the workforce 
completing cultural competency with 66% of the workforce 
completing cultural learning since 2016. 
•  Implementing a non-tertiary career pathways framework 
showcasing 45 entry-level roles across the business in 
response to feedback from our Indigenous workforce on 
career progression barriers. 
•  Piloting the Authentic LGBTI+ Leaders Program to maximise 
potential of LGBTI+ people in our workplaces. Participants 
reported that the program was a positive experience.
Representatives from the Spectrum employee network 
Refer to our website for more information on policies 
and procedures that promote inclusion and diversity 
including non-discrimination.WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR PEOPLE  25BUSINESS CONTINUITY
Woodside’s highest priority during the COVID-19 pandemic is the health and safety  
of our people, contractors, their families and the communities where we are active. 
2020 HIGHLIGHTS 
•  Timely implementation of effective measures to  
keep our people safe and healthy
•  Outstanding asset performance, delivering safe  
and reliable production despite challenges posed  
by COVID-19
•  Effective management of COVID-19 response costs  
to support an expected prolonged recovery in 2021
2021 PRIORITIES  
•  Maintain safe, reliable and efficient operations, 
including the execution of a significant maintenance 
and turnaround program
•  Support the safe mobilisation of our people into 
international locations in line with the expected 
increase in activity from our growth projects
•  Incorporate learnings from the COVID-19 response  
to remain prepared for potential further outbreaks
Our approach 
Woodside's success is contingent on our ability to remain agile 
to changing external circumstances and disruptive events, while 
maintaining safe and reliable operations. These events could 
include systems failure, network outages, natural disaster  
or a pandemic, as was experienced in 2020.
Throughout 2020, our response to the COVID-19 pandemic 
focused on protecting our people and the facilities where 
they work, ensuring business continuity and the uninterrupted 
supply of energy to domestic and export markets. 
We activated our corporate incident management 
coordination team in January to address potential risks 
of COVID-19 to our people, assets and offices across our 
operating locations. 
Government guidance and expert health advice informed 
comprehensive risk assessments and the identification and 
implementation of preventative and mitigative risk controls, 
which continue to be assured to confirm their effectiveness. Our response actions  
Across all locations, a range of measures was implemented  
to minimise the risk of COVID-19 transmission, including 
increased health and hygiene measures, site access controls  
and physical distancing. 
We implemented a flexible work-from-home roster for our 
Australian office-based staff, designed to keep our workforce 
safe and healthy, while protecting business integrity. 
Complying with government guidance, we reduced activities 
and the number of people on our operating facilities. We 
established a temporary COVID-19 operating model that 
included adjusted rosters and additional travel and site 
controls, enabling us to continue safe and reliable operations 
throughout this challenging period. Where possible, we have 
normalised roster patterns and site activities, while remaining 
resilient to COVID-19 risks. 
Additional controls implemented on our facilities include 
health and temperature screenings, restricted site access and 
segregation controls, and the introduction of polymerase 
chain reaction screening, including participation in the 
Western Australian Government’s Detect program. With the 
support of mental health specialists and professionals, we 
also introduced a dedicated mental health plan to support 
our people and their families. 
Given the uncertainty about the extent and duration of 
restrictions on entry to WA and to support the ongoing 
safe operation of our facilities, we introduced measures to 
encourage our eastern states-based employees to consider 
relocating to WA, including updating our relocation policies 
to provide additional benefits with more flexibility. 
Recognising the impacts of COVID-19 on the communities 
where we operate, we established a COVID-19 Community Fund 
that provided more than A$4.7 million in grants to not-for-profit 
organisations responding to challenges of the pandemic.IMPORTANT TOPIC
Refer to page 21 for more information about the 
COVID-19 Community Fund and page 39 for how we 
supported our suppliers during the pandemic.OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE26 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020In response to COVID-19 restrictions, the scope was 
amended to a remote assessment. It will identify risks 
associated with our offshore exploration activities in 
the north and development activities in the south. 
The assessment will be completed in early 2021, with 
stakeholder verification planned for later in the year if 
pandemic conditions allow.
Subsequent to the reporting period, we continue to monitor 
the evolving situation regarding the Myanmar Government. 
Our highest priority remains the safety of our people, their 
families and contractors in the country.
We have been active in Myanmar since 2013 and our aim  
is to be a constructive investor in the country.
Modern Slavery Statement 
Our inaugural Modern Slavery Statement, for calendar year 
2020, will be submitted to the Australian Government in 
the first half of 2021 in line with the requirements of the 
Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018. Its development was 
advanced during the year by engagements with Australian 
Border Force and the WA Modern Slavery Collaborative. 
We also actively participated in the oil and gas industry 
association for advancing environmental and social 
performance, IPIECA’s social responsibility, human rights  
and supply chain working groups. HUMAN RIGHTS
Protecting and managing human rights in line with best practice remained as important 
as ever in 2020.
2020 HIGHLIGHTS 
• Developed our first Modern Slavery Statement 
•  Online human rights awareness training completed  
by more than 1,600 people 
•  Delivered our Voluntary Principles verification presentation 
to the initiative's implementation working group 
2021 PRIORITIES 
• Publish our first Modern Slavery Statement 
•  Launch online security and human rights training  
for security personnel 
• Conduct supply chain modern slavery audits
Our approach 
We continued to mature our approach to the management 
of human rights in line with our Human Rights Policy. Key 
activities undertaken during the year included launching 
online human rights awareness training across the company, 
which was completed by more than 1,600 of our people. 
We also formalised our community-specific grievance 
mechanisms and conducted human rights due diligence  
on exploration interests and activities, contract tenderers 
and potential joint venture partners. 
In late 2020, a specialist advisory organisation commenced 
a human rights assessment for our activities in Myanmar. IMPORTANT TOPIC
Refer to our website for more information on our 
approach to human rights.WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR PEOPLE  27Corporate Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB) 
CHRB assesses the human rights disclosures of the world’s 
largest companies across five key sectors including extractives. 
Woodside’s assessment in the benchmark improved 
significantly from 2019 to 2020 following the publication of 
Our Approach to Human Rights, which details our salient 
human rights risks and existing management approach. 
Managing security 
Our approach to managing security is underpinned by our 
values and aimed at supporting our global presence. This 
ensures respect for human rights and humanitarian law where 
we are active. Risk analysis, assurance and controls are all 
embedded in our management system.
We provide a range of security training for our people, in 
addition to inductions for specific roles and regular security 
briefings for specific travel, events, operational activities  
and deployments. 
We have been a signatory to the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) since 2015. We continued 
to actively engage with the Voluntary Principles Initiative, 
providing our verification presentation in July, where we 
demonstrated our approach to managing security and human 
rights in line with the VPSHR framework. During the year, we reviewed security and human rights risks 
for Congo, Bulgaria and China, created VPSHR implementation 
plans for Senegal and Myanmar, and developed online security 
and human rights training for security personnel, which will be 
launched in 2021. 
There were no reported security-related human rights 
incidents in 2020. 
Managing our supply chain 
In 2020, we continued to develop our framework of controls 
relating to managing human rights and modern slavery risks 
in our supply chain. Activities included publishing a guideline 
on worker access to personal documents (including passports) 
for suppliers and continuing to embed modern slavery contract 
requirements on key contracts assessed as having a high 
modern slavery risk. 
We also commenced a refresh of our framework for managing 
the risk of modern slavery in our supply chain to confirm high-
risk supplier categories. Those categories identified as high-risk 
trigger a Contract Delivery Requirement, requiring suppliers to 
complete a modern slavery due-diligence questionnaire and 
develop a modern slavery risk management plan. 
Our ability to implement a suppliers' worker grievance 
mechanism and conduct our first independent modern slavery 
audit was restricted due to the impact of COVID-19. Both 
activities have been postponed to 2021. 
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE28  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020
OUR   ENVIRONMENTWOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR ENVIRONMENT  29CLIMATE CHANGE AND 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
2020 HIGHLIGHTS  
•  Commitment to clear near- and medium-term 
emissions reduction targets 
•  Published a summary of the alignment of industry 
association memberships with our climate  
change positions We report on our approach to climate change consistent with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures. These disclosures are primarily included in the 
Annual Report 2020, and the material here is supplementary. 
Woodside expects LNG demand in the Asia–Pacific region 
to remain strong, as countries seek to reduce net emissions 
whilst supplying their growing populations with the 
energy required to sustain and improve living standards. 
To compete in these markets, LNG producers will have to 
remain cost competitive and continually reduce their net 
carbon emissions.
Our approach 
The foundation of our climate strategy is to build and 
maintain a carbon-resilient portfolio, including LNG and 
new energy technologies, to help reduce global emissions. 
In doing this, we are committed to limit our greenhouse gas 
emissions through efficient design and operations together 
with carbon offsets.
Our climate strategy is overseen by a Senior Vice President 
Climate who is part of our executive committee and reports 
directly to the CEO. As a proud Australian company and leading natural gas producer, we need to play our 
part in reducing net emissions.
Refer to the Business resilience section on pages 42–43 
and our website for more information on our approach to 
climate change and our response to the energy transition.
•  Reduce cost and 
emissions, and increase 
sales gas volumes, 
through increased 
energy efficiency 
•  Accelerate deployment 
of new energy 
technologies through 
government and 
customer partnershipsOPPORTUNITIESMATERIAL TOPIC
•  Failure to achieve 
Woodside’s Scope 1 and 2 
emissions reduction targets
•  Cost of abatement 
increases e.g. through 
inefficient regulation 
•  Market for LNG and  
new energy products 
develops differently to 
range of expectation RISKS Our performance 
In 2020, Woodside’s equity share of greenhouse gas emissions 
totalled 3.6 million tonnes (CO2-e). This was up from 3.3 million 
tonnes in 2019 due to fewer planned maintenance activities 
and increased operational hours. 
Our energy efficiency improvement was consistent with 2019 
as a result of strong performance at our facilities, coupled with 
the adoption of improvement opportunities including:
•    optimisation of the KGP fuel operation mode to improve 
fuel intensity
•   KGP fin-fan cleaning to reduce LNG emission intensity
•    operation of dual boil-off gas compressors at Pluto to 
reduce flaring associated with ship loading. 
As part of our energy efficiency opportunity planning process 
we are considering future flare-reduction activities.
Scope 1 equity emissions1
18 19 20 16 17Operated emissions
Non-operated emissions4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0kt CO2-e
1. Scope 1 and flared emissions calculation methodology excludes 113 ktCO2-e of inert compounds that do not contribute to greenhouse gas emissions as 
defined in NGERs. In 2020, our total operated Scope 1 and 2 emissions were  
9.2 million tonnes, an increase from 8.8 million tonnes in 2019, 
primarily due to fewer planned maintenance activities and 
increased operational hours. The graph above reflects the focus 
of our new targets, showing our equity share of emissions.OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE30  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 20202020 was the fifth and final year of our initial 5% energy 
efficiency improvement target, which was established in 2016. 
Over this period, we surpassed the target and achieved a 8% 
improvement in energy efficiency against baseline. 
Our targets and plan 
In 2020, we established clear near- and medium-term targets 
to reduce our equity share of net Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions by 15% by 2025 and 30% by 2030 relative to 
the annual average for the period 2016–20201. These goals 
support our aspiration of net zero direct emissions by 2050.
The reference point for these targets may be adjusted for  
the acquisition or disposal of producing assets or 
developments sanctioned before 2021.  
We will meet these targets by continuing our plan of: 
•  Avoiding emissions through the way we design our facilities
•  Reducing emissions through the way we operate our facilities
•  Offsetting emissions, by both originating and acquiring 
quality offsets.  Methane 
Carbon dioxide is the largest component of our greenhouse 
gas emissions. Our methane emissions constitute less than 
0.1% by volume of total production from our LNG facilities, 
well below the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative methane intensity 
target of 0.2%. Our conventional offshore gas production has 
lower fugitive emissions than unconventional gas production, 
such as from shale gas or coal seams. 
As a signatory to the Methane Guiding Principles, we are 
committed to pursuing methane emissions reductions across 
the value chain. As part of our commitment to measure 
methane emissions from our operations, we participated 
in an independent study by UK-based National Physical 
Laboratory, to enable us to deliver targeted maintenance 
and changes to our operations. To pursue action across the 
value chain, we participated in a Methane Guiding Principles 
workshop hosted by the Beijing Gas Company at the 23rd 
China Gas and Heating Supply Conference.
Policy advocacy 
In 2020, we continued to advocate for policy measures 
that achieve emissions reduction whilst enhancing 
competitiveness and economic prosperity. In particular we 
made submissions to the development of the Australian 
Government’s Technology Investment Roadmap and its 
Expert Panel on additional sources of low-cost abatement. 
In addition to pursuing advocacy aligned with our climate 
principles, we published a summary review of our industry 
association memberships to ensure they are also aligned.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
For further information on our approach to climate risk 
management, refer to pages 42-47 of the Annual Report 2020.2020
-8.02016
-3.82018
-3.42019
-3.12017
-0.7Energy efficiency performance
Performance 
against baselineTarget 
performance0.0
-1.0%
-2.0%
-3.0%
-4.0%
-5.0%
-6.0%
-7.0%
-8.0%15%
BY2025
30%
BY2030
1. Baseline is set as the average gross equity Scope 1 and 2 emissions over 2016-2020 and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in 
producing or sanctioned assets, with an FID prior to 2021.Emissions reduction targets1 
Fuel combustion70%
Venting20%
Flare10%Scope 1 equity emissions by source
Further information about the Methane Guiding 
Principles is available at methaneguidingprinciples.org
Refer to our website for government submissions 
relating to climate change. WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR ENVIRONMENT  31ENVIRONMENTSIGNIFICANT TOPIC
2020 HIGHLIGHTS  
•  Received the 2019 National APPEA award for 
environmental leadership and performance 
•  Progressed delivery of timely primary environment 
approvals for our developments on the Burrup Peninsula
•  Strengthened science partnerships and developed 
new research programs to support our operations, 
growth aspirations and decommissioning 
2021 PRIORITIES 
•  Secure primary environment approvals for our 
developments on the Burrup Peninsula and new 
energy opportunities 
•  Expand Burrup air-monitoring program to drive 
improved understanding of our ongoing operations 
•  Deliver a roadmap for our decommissioning strategy, 
supported by science
Our approach 
We strive to reduce our environmental footprint across all 
phases of our operating life cycle with a key emphasis on 
learning and continuous improvement. Our investment in 
contemporary science, monitoring programs and research 
underpins our data-driven, industry-leading approach to the 
way we operate, grow and assess new opportunities. 
Our science strategy strives to strengthen our environmental 
leadership and capability, and support regulatory approvals 
for our activities. The strategy outlines our approach to 
decommissioning across our portfolio, building a robust science 
knowledge base to support “equal or better” outcomes.
We were proud to receive the 2019 National APPEA award 
for environmental leadership and performance. The award 
reaffirms our approach to environmental management. 
Biodiversity
We rely on evidence-based scientific knowledge to support 
our understanding of the environments where we operate. 
This informs our risk evaluations of our potential impacts  
on biodiversity.
In accordance with our Health, Safety, Quality and 
Environment Policy, we are committed to minimising adverse 
impacts related to our activities to as low as reasonably 
practicable and incorporating biodiversity management in 
our business planning and decision-making processes.We undertake environmental impact assessments for our 
activities that consider the nature and scale of the activity, 
the regulatory context, stakeholder interests and the 
applicable framework of standards and practices. The impact 
assessments are an iterative process designed to prevent, 
mitigate and manage impacts on an ongoing basis using an 
agreed set of embedded controls and mitigation measures.
None of our facilities are located in World Heritage Areas. Many 
of our facilities successfully coexist near nature conservation 
zones and priority sites for biodiversity conservation.
Waste management
We implemented a waste management hierarchy, which 
considers eliminating, reducing, reusing and recycling 
waste, across all our activities from design phase through to 
decommissioning. Our emissions and discharges are tracked 
to inform how we can improve. We continually strive to reduce 
waste and improve resource efficiency.
Our relationships 
We are proactive and transparent in sharing information about 
our environmental performance and management plans with 
our stakeholders in support of our exploration, development 
and operational activities. 
These engagements enable us to listen and understand 
community needs and expectations, which fulfil a key part of 
the social impact assessment work that supports our primary 
environmental approvals. Strong environmental performance is essential to our success and continued growth.
Refer to page 18 of this report for more information 
about stakeholder engagement activities. 
Our research shows that our offshore facilities support diverse and 
important marine habitatsOUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE32 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020Our partnerships 
Strong science partnerships with institutions including the 
Australian Institute of Marine Science (AIMS), the Western 
Australian Museum, and the University of Western Australia 
(UWA) for more than two decades have positioned us as an 
industry leader in our investment and approach to science. 
The published research resulting from these partnerships 
informs business decisions, supports approval 
documentation and allows meaningful engagement with 
stakeholders. Industry-wide adoption of our approach to use 
science to underpin and inform environmental and social 
impact assessments and risk management recognises our 
leadership in this area.
Investing in air monitoring 
We have been instrumental in the growth of air monitoring 
on the Burrup for more than a decade, investing in credible 
and robust science to measure the emissions from Pluto LNG 
and KGP on the Burrup Peninsula. 
In 2021, our existing air-monitoring program measuring NOx 
and SOx emissions will be expanded to monitor nitrogen 
deposition and include additional monitoring stations. This 
will enhance our understanding of the potential impact of 
emissions on the surrounding environment, with particular 
consideration of Indigenous rock art. 
Efficient onshore water management 
Our two operated onshore LNG facilities, Pluto LNG and KGP, 
are located in an environment characterised by dry winters 
and relatively wet summers. The sites use a combination 
of scheme water and recycled facility water. Our approach 
to water management is driven by our water efficiency 
management plan, which has been implemented across these 
sites to improve performance through monitoring of water 
use and intensity. The success of our water efficiency management plan 
relies on ongoing maintenance planning, including leak 
identification and repair, and inspections of tanks, vessels, 
exchangers and critical pumps. This resulted in activities 
in 2019–2020 that contributed to almost 20% reduction in 
water use at KGP over the reporting period.
Understanding our marine ecosystems 
Subsea infrastructure is known to form artificial reefs that 
attract fish and larger marine mammals. To better understand 
the potential value of these habitats at our existing offshore 
infrastructure in the north-west of Australia, we have 
undertaken numerous scientific studies with UWA and AIMS. 
We co-funded a postgraduate student to complete a 
doctorate on the fisheries values of offshore infrastructure. 
The research observed marine circle structures produced by 
a male pufferfish near our offshore infrastructure, which have 
previously only been observed off the coast of Japan. This 
important scientific discovery resulted in the student receiving 
the 2020 WA Premier’s Science (Best Student) Award. 
Our research partners at UWA also explored interactions 
of whale sharks with our subsea infrastructure, as part of 
the AIMS’s North West Shoals to Shore Research Program. 
The study tracked two whale sharks, finding that our Pluto 
platform was far more frequently visited than other offshore 
facilities. These results suggest a probable link between 
increased light at the Pluto platform and increased plankton 
populations, which attract the whale sharks. 
These studies highlight the importance of partnerships 
between industry and science to improve understanding of 
biodiversity and ecological function in marine ecosystems 
and will help inform decision making about management of 
subsea infrastructure at its end of life. 
The Burrup Peninsula where our Karratha Gas Plant and Pluto LNG facilities are located
Refer to page 20 of this report for more 
information about cultural heritage management.WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR APPROACH  33
OUR   APPROACH34  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020Our approach 
Woodside is committed to a high level of corporate 
governance and fosters a culture that values integrity, respect 
and working sustainably. Our approach to sustainability is 
incorporated into our management system, including our 
policies, procedures, Compass and Code of Conduct. 
Our Compass is core to our governance framework. It defines 
what is important to us and the way employees and contractors 
work by setting out our mission, vision, strategic direction and 
core values. 
Our company policies set out the principles for our operating 
structure. They are embedded in our business through the 
Woodside Management System, which provides a framework 
for our day-to-day activities. 
Our Board has oversight of our management and business 
activities. The Sustainability Committee reviews and 
makes recommendations to the Board on our policies and 
performance on sustainability-related topics. These include 
health, safety and wellbeing, environment, climate change, 
human rights, Indigenous affairs, local content, major incident 
preparedness and business continuity. 
In 2020, the Committee oversaw changes to the Indigenous 
Communities Policy and approved our approach to our  
2021–2025 Reconciliation Action Plan, 2021–2025 social 
investment strategy and updated focus areas for the  
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. 
As at 31 December 2020, the Committee comprised six 
independent, non-executive directors. Ms Swee Chen Goh  
joined the Board on 1 January 2020 and was a member of  
the Sustainability Committee from that date. 
Business ethics  
Our Code of Conduct (the Code) sets out the ways we commit 
to conducting our business in an ethical manner. In 2020, we 
updated our expectations in the Code regarding giving and 
receiving gifts and entertainment.It is the responsibility of all directors, employees and 
contractors to familiarise themselves with the Code, and to 
comply with it, in addition to complying with all laws. 
All new starters undertake mandatory induction training 
on the Code, and all of our people are required to complete 
annual refresher training. The 2020 completion rate for the 
refresher training was 100% of eligible employees. Woodside’s 
General Counsel maintains records of this training. 
Our people are required to report any suspected or 
potential violations of the Code. Reporting options include 
a whistleblowing helpline should anonymity be preferred. 
There were 11 reports to the helpline in 2020. 
Allegations of misconduct are assessed by a cross-functional 
steering group. That steering group oversees internal 
investigations under a documented investigation process. 
The outcomes of investigations are reported to the Board’s 
Audit & Risk Committee. Where allegations are substantiated, 
disciplinary action may range from warnings to termination 
of employment. 
In 2020, there were 31 new investigations, covering 53 allegations 
of breaches of the Code. Of the 74 allegations closed during 
2020 (including investigations in progress at the end of 
2019), 38 allegations were substantiated and 36 were 
unsubstantiated. Where allegations were substantiated, this 
resulted in the removal of four service provider personnel, 
and the termination of four employees. One termination was 
fraud-related.CORPORATE GOVERNANCESIGNIFICANT TOPIC
We believe that operating in accordance with high standards of governance and transparency 
is essential for business resilience, value creation and sustained long-term performance. 
Refer to our Corporate Governance Statement for further 
information on the Board, executives and management, 
and how strategic performance and goals are monitored.Refer to our website for Our Compass and policies.  
WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR APPROACH  35MAJOR INCIDENT PREPAREDNESSSIGNIFICANT TOPIC
The oil and gas industry is inherently hazardous. The ability to effectively respond and 
recover in the unlikely event of a major incident is a key priority for Woodside.
2020 HIGHLIGHTS  
•  Hosted a successful pan-industry exercise to test the 
deployment of the Subsea First Response Toolkit 
•  Effective response to an active cyclone season 
•  Effective response to COVID-19 including 
implementing spill response assurance over licence 
to operate commitments 
2021 PRIORITIES 
•  Maintain high levels of preparedness and response 
through our testing and exercising program 
•  Implement updated emergency management process 
for operating facilities 
•  Develop international emergency management and 
hydrocarbon spill response capability and competency 
for our activities in Senegal and Myanmar 
Our approach 
As operator of two LNG facilities, four offshore platforms and 
two FPSO facilities we are committed to understanding our 
major incident risks and developing robust incident response 
capabilities. Our global incident and crisis management 
framework aligns with industry best practice and an all-
hazards approach of “prevent, prepare, respond and recover”. 
We understand that the development of incident and 
crisis management leaders is the key to effective incident 
response. Our proprietary training program reflects the 
importance of good leadership during critical incidents but is 
also applicable to our day-to-day business. We embed these 
capabilities through a comprehensive, structured program of 
testing and incident simulations. 
Our performance 
During 2020, we stood up our incident and crisis 
arrangements on several occasions. We responded to 
six significant weather events in the first half of the year, 
including a severe tropical cyclone, which impacted our 
operations and the Karratha community. 
Our incident and crisis arrangements were also activated 
in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which facilitated 
an effective response during an unprecedented period of 
uncertainty and risk. Despite these periods of activation, we were able to maintain 
our program of training to test our capabilities through 
exercises, incorporating learnings along the way. 
Incident response  
We have comprehensive incident and crisis management 
arrangements in place to respond to any disruptive event. We 
use our core principles of planning, competency, capability, 
compliance and accountability to ensure we are prepared: 
•    Planning – we have an easy-to-follow suite of oil spill 
response documents 
•    Competency – we maintain access to trained personnel to 
perform key incident response roles during an incident 
•    Capability – we have access to the resources required 
to effectively manage incidents, including personnel, 
equipment and support organisations 
•    Compliance – we ensure all activities are compliant with 
regulatory requirements both in Australia and internationally 
•    Accountability – we have clear roles and responsibilities 
setting out our expectations for incident response. 
We test our response arrangements on a priority-based 
rolling schedule to ensure we can meet our licence to 
operate and social licence to operate commitments. 
In relation to hydrocarbon spill response, we test the 
integration and inter-operability of our spill response plans, 
involving our peers, support organisations and relevant 
government agencies in our crisis drills and exercises. 
In 2020, we conducted: 
• 20 hydrocarbon spill operational site-based drills 
•  eight hydrocarbon spill exercises involving operational sites  
and corporate support teams 
•  one hydrocarbon spill exercise focused on strategic 
response arrangements that included participation from 
state government response agencies. 
Additionally, during COVID-19 we implemented real-time, 
continuous assurance of our spill response regulatory 
commitments for our drilling and production operations. 
This assurance is ongoing and will remain in place for the 
foreseeable future. OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE36  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020Our approach
We are a significant taxpayer with a recognised transparent 
approach to tax. Our tax policy stipulates that we will comply 
with all tax laws applicable to our business. We are committed 
to comply with not just the letter of the law but also the spirit in 
which it was legislated. We recognise that our ability to pursue 
our growth projects is underpinned by stable, sustainable 
and competitive tax and fiscal regimes. 
We believe that taxes should be paid where value is created. 
We do not support the use of artificial arrangements, 
including those intended for tax avoidance or which transfer 
value to low-tax jurisdictions or so-called “tax havens”. 
Our engagement with tax-policy setters and administrators  
is based on openness and trust, ensuring our relationships 
are constructive. 
We continue to work proactively with the Australian Taxation 
Office (ATO) under a voluntary arrangement known as an 
Annual Compliance Arrangement (ACA). The ACA is a co-
operative tax compliance arrangement that is only available 
to taxpayers with a robust tax governance framework who 
are trusted, transparent and compliant. The ACA facilitates 
real-time interaction with the ATO where we openly disclose 
our tax matters and changes to our business. 
As a Top 100 Australian taxpayer we are also part of the ATO’s 
Justified Trust program that seeks to assure large corporates are 
paying the “right” amount of tax. We are proud to have obtained 
the highest assurance rating under the program, achieved by only 
30% of the largest Australian taxpayers. 
We recognise the need to be open, transparent and accountable 
to maintain the trust of our stakeholders including employees, 
contractors, suppliers and customers. In Australia, we continue 
to voluntarily participate in the Board of Taxation’s Tax 
Transparency Code. We publish Part A of the recommended 
disclosures in our Annual Report 2020 and Part B in this 
report, supported by further information on our website. 
We have been recognised as a leader for our approach to 
tax in the Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA). The 
CSA is a global sustainability benchmark that tracks the 
performance of leading companies across a range of criteria 
for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. Our contribution: We pay our taxes 
In Australia, where our core producing assets are located,  
we are a significant taxpayer. 
We have paid more than A$10 billion in Australian taxes  
and royalties over the past decade to 2020, which includes  
A$707 million paid in 2020 to the Australian federal and  
state governments. 
We generate most of our revenue in Australia and as a  
result pay more than 95% of our taxes here.
In addition to corporate income tax, our hydrocarbon 
production is subject to a range of Australian taxes, such as 
federal royalties, federal excise and petroleum resource rent 
tax (PRRT). Woodside’s liabilities and payment obligations 
under these taxes are affected by a number of factors, such 
as changes to production, operating fields and commodity 
prices affecting revenues, as well as cost of sales and capital 
investment impacting expenditures. 
Our effective income tax rate on our Australian profits (Australian 
ETR) continues to be near to (and is sometimes greater than) 
the Australian corporate tax rate for large businesses of 30%. 
Our Australian ETR was 29.6% in 2020, compared with 29.3% in 
2019, as outlined in our Annual Report 2020.TRANSPARENCYIMPORTANT TOPIC
Transparency is an important aspect of being a good corporate citizen especially in relation 
to our financial payments to governments. 
We remain  
a significant  
Australian 
taxpayer with 
more thanof our  
taxes paid  
in Australia95%More  
than
in Australian taxes and 
royalties paid over the  
past decade to 202010BILLION A$$Refer to our website for more information about our 
approach to tax including government submissions and 
reports, and our tax contribution.2020 Australian tax contribution (A$m)
Corporate income tax
Federal royalties
Federal excise
Payroll tax
Fringe benefits tax473
120
33
75
6Our related-party dealings:  
We apply arm’s-length principles  
We conduct business activities within Australia and in various 
foreign jurisdictions. In dealing with our international related 
parties, we apply the “arm’s length” principle. This ensures 
value is not artificially transferred outside Australia. 
The majority of Woodside’s international related-party 
dealings are support services. The services include 
those provided by personnel located in the jurisdictions 
providing business support activities. These locations 
include our corporate headquarters in Australia and our 
offices in Canada, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and the 
USA, amongst others. The total value of these services is 
not significant when compared to the revenue from our 
production activities. 
Our Singapore office sources new buyers and uses real-time 
LNG trading markets to sell our uncommitted Australian LNG 
cargoes. The profits from these cargoes are subject to tax  
in Australia. 
Other support functions, including representative offices, are 
located across the globe in proximity to important assets and 
or markets. 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative  
The Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a 
global multi-stakeholder group that promotes the open and 
accountable management of extractive resources of which 
we have been a member of for more than a decade. 
We are committed to reporting our petroleum tax and 
fee payments in respect of operations in implementing 
countries where we have an interest. The company is 
actively involved in the EITI implementation process where 
it operates. Woodside Energy (Senegal) B.V. has been an 
EITI supporting member since its creation and has reported 
on an annual basis to the EITI regarding our activities in 
Senegal since 2017. Industry association memberships 
We join industry associations to be better informed on 
issues that are important to business and the community. 
Industry associations help set technical standards, share best 
practice, facilitate stakeholder engagement and give members  
a forum to discuss and learn more about a range of topics.   
We maintain memberships that support our business priorities, 
align with our objectives, and provide value to the company 
and our shareholders. 
Acknowledging our shareholders’ growing interest in how we are 
navigating the energy transition, we undertook a review of our 
industry association memberships, focusing on climate alignment. 
The review assessed the positions of 12 associations active in 
climate advocacy and identified no material misalignments. 
Payments to political parties 
We regularly engage with governments of countries where we 
are active in support of our strategy, to exchange information 
and inform policy development and decision making. 
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic necessitated increased 
government engagement to maintain safe operations that 
deliver significant benefits to the Western Australian and 
Australian economies. 
We do not donate to campaign funds for any political party, 
politician or candidate for public office in any country. Each 
year, our Board considers its approach to political contributions, 
being annual subscriptions and attendance at business events 
associated with political parties that are only made in Australia. 
In 2020, our Board agreed to renew our membership to 
the two major federal political party business engagement 
forums in Australia, the Federal Liberal Party’s Australian 
Business Network and the Australian Labor Party’s Federal 
Labor Business Forum. We also renewed our membership to 
the Federal National Party’s National Policy Forum and the 
state-based business forums of the Labor, Liberal and National 
parties in WA. 
Our political contributions for the financial year 2019/20, as 
published by the Australian Electoral Commission, totalled 
A$335,415.
WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR APPROACH  37Refer to our Annual Report 2020 for a full list of 
Woodside’s Group of Companies, their country of 
incorporation and our ownership interest. Refer to our website for more information on our industry 
association memberships.
OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE38  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020A comprehensive review and audit of the design and 
implementation of our anti-fraud and corruption compliance 
program was completed in 2020. This confirmed the program 
is well designed and embedded in our business. We will 
further strengthen our existing detection activities in 2021. 
Managing the threat 
We seek to prevent fraud and corruption by simultaneously 
addressing four themes: the actions of our people, the 
actions of our business partners, the actions of external 
threat actors, and our corporate decisions. Obligations 
concerning the actions of third parties and business partners 
are clearly established in contracting arrangements, and 
reiterated via direct engagement or compliance audit on a 
risk-based priority. 
All suspicions or allegations of improper conduct are triaged 
and investigated under oversight of a cross-functional 
investigation steering group.
Supporting technical development 
In 2020, we supported the development of the Bribery 
Prevention Network, a public–private partnership that brings 
together business, civil society, academia and government. 
The Network has a shared goal of supporting Australian 
business to prevent, detect and combat bribery and 
corruption and promote a culture of compliance. We are also 
a member of Transparency International and other business 
integrity forums. FRAUD, ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION
We seek to avoid all acts of fraud or corruption by, against, within or in connection 
with Woodside, by maintaining a robust anti-fraud and corruption compliance program 
embedded across our business.
2020 HIGHLIGHTS 
•  Achieved a 100% completion rate for our Code of 
Conduct and anti-bribery and corruption training 
•  Completed our anti-fraud and corruption 
compliance program review and audit
•  Strengthened our gifts and entertainment 
declaration and approval processes
2021 PRIORITIES 
•  Implement a new whistleblower hotline service, 
improving language and technological elements 
•  Continue to enhance data analytics and internal 
monitoring capability 
•  Manage emerging anti-bribery and corruption 
compliance activities across growth projects 
Our approach 
Corruption undermines fair competition and deprives local 
communities of benefits that flow from business activities. 
Consequently, we seek to contribute to global anti-corruption 
efforts by avoiding corruption across our business, and  
seek to influence the actions of our business partners and  
third parties. 
We maintain a formal fraud and corruption control program, 
with an annual plan of prevention and detection activities 
including annual training programs for our people. Our 
approach is guided by our Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Policy, and the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee receives 
six-monthly progress reports. 
Our performance 
We recorded zero violations of anti-bribery and corruption 
laws within or in connection with our operations during 
2020. There was one instance of low-value internal fraud 
detected and investigated in 2020 – resulting in an 
employee separation and remediation of relevant processes 
and controls.CONDUCT  
OF OUR 
PEOPLE
CORPOPRATE 
DECISIONSACTIONS OF 
BUSINESS 
PARTNERS
TARGETED 
ACTIONS BY 
EXTERNALSTHREATSSIGNIFICANT TOPICWOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR APPROACH  39SUPPLY CHAIN AND LOCAL CONTENT
Woodside continues to work in partnership with our supply chain to continuously improve our 
approach, develop sustainable practices and deliver value to our business and communities. 
2020 HIGHLIGHTS 
• Exceeded our expectations for 2016–2020 RAP 
•  Implemented process changes to support small and 
Indigenous businesses through expediting payment 
terms during COVID-19 
•  Significant support of the WA government’s LNG 
Jobs Task Force and the publication of Forward Work 
Plans on the Industry Capability Network Gateway 
2021 PRIORITIES 
•  Further improve our Indigenous contracting approach 
to support our commitment to Reconciliation 
•  Improve global business alignment to drive local 
content outcomes in the communities where we  
are active 
•  Improve processes and systems for local content  
and supply chain reporting 
Our approach 
In 2020, we reviewed our internal processes and commenced 
implementation of improvements to ensure a fit-for-purpose 
approach to our contracting and procurement governance 
and decision making. We also enhanced automation of our 
contracting workflows and implemented internal training to 
support contract owners. 
Recognising that small businesses can be particularly sensitive 
to cashflow issues, we are a signatory to the Business Council of 
Australia’s Australian Supplier Payment Code, which commits 
signatories to paying small-size enterprises within 30 days.
Our performance 
In 2020, we spent more than A$5 billion1 globally,  
with the majority of spend with Australian-based suppliers.  
The dollar value of our Australian-based spend is consistent 
with 2019, but, increased international spend for the Sangomar 
development reduced it as a percentage of global spend. In response to COVID-19, we worked with our contractors 
and service providers to develop and implement COVID-19 
management plans, consistent with the requirements of the 
WA Department of Health and the World Health Organization. 
To support our Australian supply chain, we expedited 
payments of all outstanding invoices for small, local and 
Indigenous businesses generating less than A$10 million in 
annual revenue. We also reduced payment terms for new 
invoices received from small Australian businesses, expediting 
payment from 30 days, targeting 14 days. 
We continued to support initiatives to help small businesses 
better understand how to effectively engage in our 
supply chain and build their capability, particularly in the 
communities where we are active. We participated in supplier 
networking events and held information sessions about future 
opportunities in Australia and Senegal. 
In 2020, we exceeded our initial RAP Indigenous contracting 
expectations driven by sustained commitment across our 
entire supply chain. We co-hosted a workshop with NYFL, 
one of our Indigenous partners, for our key contractors and 
Pilbara Aboriginal businesses to gain greater understanding 
of their aspirations.
We continue to support our regional communities in Australia to 
develop local business capability. The Grow Local Program with 
the Karratha and Districts Chamber of Commerce and Industry 
and the newly established Business Accelerator Program in 
Exmouth quickly adapted during COVID-19 by delivering virtual 
learning resources and support for businesses. IMPORTANT TOPIC
JAPANGLOBAL SPEND BY COUNTRY
AUSTRALIA74%
UNITED KINGDOM7%9%
1. Converted from USD at the average 2020 exchange rate.OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE40  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT INTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
LINE-LED OWNERSHIPORGANISATIONAL CA
PABILITY
TECHNICAL COMPLIANCE SUPPORT
ROLE CLARITYCompass & Code of Conduct
Risk, Compliance & Resilience Expectations
Business activities
PROTECT 
LICENCE 
TO OPERATERegulatory landscape
Regulator expectations
New or changed regulation
IDENTIFY OBLIGATIONS
PLAN TO COMPLY
COMPLY WITH OBLIGATIONS
MONITOR & COMMUNICATE PERFORMANCEASSESS
D
EVELOP
IMPLEMENT
A
SSUREREGULATORY COMPLIANCE 
We set global expectations for our business activities to ensure we meet our regulatory 
obligations, manage risk and meet stakeholder expectations. 
2020 HIGHLIGHTS 
• No significant regulatory fines or sanctions 
•  Implemented a centralised process for monitoring 
regulatory change across global jurisdictions 
2021 PRIORITIES 
•  Support timely regulatory approvals for our  
growth projects 
•  Implement improvements to the regulatory 
compliance management process, focusing on building 
compliance capability and enhancing reporting tools 
•  Implement an initiative to mature privacy capability  
and management 
Regulatory Compliance Management ProcessIMPORTANT TOPIC
Our performance 
In 2020, we carried out business activities in 35 global 
jurisdictions, requiring compliance with 777 applicable 
legislative titles and 541 active regulatory authorisations 
where we hold an interest. 
Four regulatory infringement notices were received in relation 
to our activities and no significant monetary or non-monetary 
sanctions or fines were issued. 
*  Regulatory authorisations include petroleum titles, permits and approvals, licences, land titles, certificates and other forms, exemptions and dispensations.35 
Jurisdictions in which 
our business activities 
take place777  
Legislative titles 
applicable to our 
business activities541
Active regulatory 
authorisations* for 
assets where we  
hold an interest4
Regulatory infringement 
notices received, with 
no significant sanctions 
or finesOur approach  
The Woodside Management System describes our way 
of working. It provides a framework for our key business 
activities to help our people achieve our objectives and 
deliver quality outcomes, while meeting our obligations and 
effectively managing risk. 
Our regulatory compliance management process ensures 
accountabilities for compliance are clear and understood, 
obligations are identified and met, and compliance performance 
is monitored and communicated to relevant stakeholders.
In 2021, we will deliver training to further build the 
compliance capability of our people and enhance reporting 
tools to more easily demonstrate compliance both within the 
business and to regulators and other external stakeholders. 
We will also implement improvements to our privacy 
management and capability. WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR FUTURE  41OUR   FUTURE42  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020Sustained role for natural gas 
We expect future demand for LNG will vary from region to 
region, and from sector to sector. In the Asia–Pacific region, 
where 1.5 billion people are expected to increase their living 
standards and join the middle class by 2030, energy use, 
including LNG, is expected to increase. 
This is because LNG is relatively lower carbon than other 
fossil fuels on a lifecycle basis, so enables countries to take 
immediate action on emissions reduction whilst delivering 
energy supplies. It has other benefits too: it is lower in local 
air-quality pollutants than other fossil fuels; it can be diverted 
between destinations to match fluctuating demand; and it 
can provide “firming” capacity with renewables to accelerate 
their roll-out. Gas is used in many sectors – such as industrial, 
commercial, residential and transport applications – where 
emissions can be hard to abate through electrification.   
To compete for its place in the energy transition, LNG will 
have to be cost-competitive, but also increasingly lower net 
carbon. And its role will vary from country to country and 
between end-use sectors, depending on the starting points, 
alternatives and policies adopted in them. 
Positioning to succeed in a hydrogen market 
Hydrogen is a zero-carbon fuel that we see as a natural 
evolution of our energy export business. It has the potential 
for use in heavy vehicle transportation, power generation, 
and industrial and chemical applications in regions that do 
not have adequate renewable resources of their own.
The process of shipping hydrogen as ammonia has many 
similarities to our current LNG business model. We believe 
that the pathway will start with ‘blue’ hydrogen produced 
from natural gas with related carbon management and 
progress to ‘green’ hydrogen where Australia is strategically 
advantaged due to its renewable energy resources. 
Governments across the world are offering unprecedented 
policy support. In Australia, we have been shortlisted by 
ARENA for funding for two potential renewable hydrogen 
projects. One of these is our 'H2TAS' concept, which involves 
a 10 MW production facility to be located in Tasmania’s Bell 
Bay Industrial Zone. 
Electrolysers would use zero-emission hydro power to 
produce green hydrogen initially targeted at the local 
transportation sector. BUSINESS RESILIENCESIGNIFICANT TOPIC
The global response to climate change is changing the way that the world produces and 
consumes energy. As nations progress and increase their efforts to make contributions towards 
achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement, the energy transition is expected to accelerate. 
Our approach 
Woodside’s strategy responds to the global energy 
transition by ensuring we have a resilient hydrocarbon 
business that provides affordable, clean energy to meet 
growing demand.  
To help achieve this, in November we launched the 
Operations Transformation initiative targeting a 30% 
reduction in operational expenditure over three years.
We have outlined clear near- and medium- term targets 
to reduce our net emissions, and a plan to achieve them 
through avoiding emissions in design, reducing them in 
operations, and developing large-scale carbon offsets. 
This activity supports a resilient LNG-based hydrocarbon 
business that meets our climate change commitments. 
Finally, we have put the building blocks in place for a new 
energy business that can scale at the pace of the energy 
transition with a focus on low- and zero-carbon energy 
sources, including hydrogen. 
Over the past three years, we have rebalanced our opportunity 
development expenditure so that hydrogen, our carbon 
business and technology make up around 50% of our portfolio. 
This investment is tailored to understand the market 
potential, and the required technology and capability, so 
that our new energy business is scalable to match the pace 
of the energy transition. 2020 HIGHLIGHTS  
•  Boosted our carbon portfolio by planting 3.6 million 
native trees in partnership with Greening Australia 
•  Two renewable hydrogen projects shortlisted 
for funding by the Australian Renewable Energy 
Agency (ARENA) 
•  The first seven hydrogen refuelling stations in South 
Korea opened through our HyNet partnership 
2021 PRIORITIES 
•  Targeting final investment decision on H2TAS 
hydrogen project 
•  Diversify our carbon portfolio and screen carbon 
capture and storage potential 
Refer to pages 38-41 of the Annual Report 2020 for  
more information on corporate risks.WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR FUTURE  43In Korea, we have invested in hydrogen refuelling stations 
alongside our partners in HyNet, with the first seven stations 
coming online in 2020. In Japan we have partnered with JERA 
Inc, Marubeni Corporation and IHI Corporation  to investigate 
the potential for an ammonia export pilot. 
A carbon offsets portfolio 
In 2018, we created a business to both generate and acquire 
offsets through a variety of methods. Initially, our objective 
is to build a resilient portfolio of offsets for our base business 
and growth projects. 
We are targeting a carbon portfolio cost around US$15/tonne1. 
In future, this carbon offsets business may develop as part of 
our product portfolio in its own right. 
In Australia, tree planting has significant potential to deliver 
carbon offsets due to the availability of suitable land, and the 
biodiversity and regional economic development co-benefits 
that it can bring. In 2020, we planted about 3.6 million native trees on three 
properties we acquired in WA, in partnership with Greening 
Australia. We also contributed to a training program to build 
native seed collection skills across Indigenous Noongar 
communities in south-west WA. The program is expected 
to improve future seed availability for restoration works and 
support the development of Noongar seed-supply enterprises. 
Carbon capture and storage 
Carbon capture and storage (CCS) has the potential, 
particularly as technology improves, to offer storage solutions 
in suitable sub-surface reservoirs. As an explorer and 
producer of oil and gas, we have the capability to identify and 
participate in potential opportunities to deploy CCS. 
CCS is rapidly becoming more prevalent with 19 projects 
operating globally and many more in planning. The costs of CCS 
are reducing, especially in advantaged locations and applications. 
But technical challenges still exist. We are continuing to 
assess CCS opportunities for our operated facilities.
Preparation for tree planting at Woodside’s Native Reforestation Project at Sukey Hill in the Great Southern region of Western Australia
1. This report does not include any express or implied prices at which Woodside will buy or sell financial products.OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE44  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020CYBERSECURITY
We faced several cybersecurity challenges in 2020 including an increase in overall 
cyber-attacks and the sophistication and prevalence of targeted attacks, and adapting 
to new ways of working in response to COVID-19.  
2020 HIGHLIGHTS 
• All known cyber risks are under active management 
•  Promptly enabled our workforce to securely work  
from home in response to COVID-19
•  Identification of Crown Jewel assets complete,  
allowing for a prioritised approach to addressing 
cybersecurity threats
2021 PRIORITIES 
•  Complete the IT cyber uplift program and the adoption 
of a zero-trust operating model and control set 
•  Complete the secure-by-design delivery of key 
operational transformation projects
•  Understand and comply with incoming changes to 
critical infrastructure legislation 
Our approach 
Our cyber scorecard, now in its third year, continues to 
drive a focus on core and fundamental cyber hygiene 
controls across the organisation. Building on this in 2020, 
our internal targets have been increased and a “Crown 
Jewels” assurance program implemented. The Crown Jewels 
program aims to identify and establish detailed assurance 
over our most business-critical roles and systems. Central to 
this approach has been a simplification of technologies and 
tools to drive integration, visibility and cost efficiency. 
Our performance 
Despite a challenging external environment and a significant 
increase in attacks, we met our 2020 cybersecurity targets 
for all known cyber risks to be under active management 
and reducing the time to detect cyber incidents. We 
suffered one cyber breach (unauthorised access to a device 
on our network perimeter) in 2020 but the incident was 
quickly detected and contained with no business impact. 
To keep our workforce safe and to ensure business 
continuity, we rapidly adapted to allow the majority of our 
people to work from home. A change of this magnitude would normally take months to 
plan and execute but it was implemented successfully in a 
number of days. This included a significant communication 
program to ensure our staff were aware of the additional 
risks posed by working from home. As always, cyber 
attackers wasted no time in taking advantage and we 
detected and responded to a significant uptick in cyber-
attacks – particularly incidents like COVID-19–themed 
phishing attacks. 
To optimise our workforce and build technical capability, the 
cybersecurity team awarded four traineeships to existing 
staff members from outside the team. These individuals will 
spend three years developing their skills and knowledge 
while bolstering the team’s capacity. 
Responding to a malware attack 
Over the course of a week in September, more than 14,000 
malicious emails containing malware were sent to our people. 
The emails contained a variant of malware called “Emotet”, 
which can be used to steal credentials or deploy further 
malicious software such as ransomware. The scale of this 
malware campaign was ten times larger than anything seen 
previously. While this incident did not result in a material 
business impact, the sophistication and duration were higher 
and longer than any previously experienced incidents.IMPORTANT TOPIC
WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD OUR FUTURE  45INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGYIMPORTANT TOPIC
Woodside has a long history of early and successful adoption of industry technologies  
in our business.
2020 HIGHLIGHTS 
•  Became the first energy company to execute a high-
performance cloud computing task across 1 million 
virtual central processing units (CPUs) with Amazon 
Web Services 
•  Completed construction of new tertiary learning 
facilities at UWA and Monash to enhance technology 
learning outcomes 
2021 PRIORITIES 
•  Support high-priority and high-value opportunities 
identified for our Operations Transformation initiative 
•  Progress commercialisation of FUSE, our digital  
twin platform 
Our approach 
Our innovation and technology work is guided by a business 
problem or opportunity. We continue to investigate 
opportunities to improve unit production costs in our base 
business and support our growth projects. 
Over the past few years, we have increased collaboration 
outside our industry, working with universities, start-up 
enterprises, governments and business enterprises to 
uncover new opportunities to reduce costs, lift production 
and enhance the way we work.
Technology applications that help our gas processing 
facilities run more efficiently will play an important role 
in our efforts to reach the emissions reduction targets we 
announced in 2020 of 15% by 2025 and 30% by 20301. 
Our performance 
Our 2020 achievements underlined the importance of 
moving quickly to test big ideas in close collaboration with 
our workforce and innovation partners. In September, we 
installed a second probe to an LNG processing train propane 
kettle at KGP that allows our operators to determine 
propane levels more reliably and accurately, meaning we 
can optimise the gas cooling process. This will enable us to 
adapt to changes in field characteristics in the future. Refer to pages 42–43 for more information about  
our new energy projects.In November, we became the first energy company to 
successfully execute a large-scale computing workload on 
Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure. We used more 
than 1 million virtual CPUs simultaneously across three AWS 
regions in the United States. 
The virtual CPUs performed full waveform inversion analysis 
on 3,200 km2 of seismic data from the Sunrise field, located 
offshore Timor-Leste. We achieved this result in less than two 
hours, instead of the industry-standard weeks.  
Making our facilities work harder  
In late 2020, we launched our Operations Transformation 
initiative, targeting operational expenditure reduction of 30% 
in the next three years. Our vision is for intelligent LNG facilities 
that strike the right balance between automation, and human 
judgement and decision making.
Supporting this vision, we expanded our wireless sensor 
coverage to the fin fan heat exchangers at our Pluto LNG 
facility, connected to our FUSE digital twin platform. FUSE 
brings facility performance data from multiple sources 
together, aggregating the data into insights and displaying 
them in a four dimensional experience. The wireless sensors 
enable condition-based monitoring to automate fault 
prediction and maintenance work orders, saving operator time. 
We deployed permanent and continuous robotic surveillance 
at the Pluto LNG facility to improve situational awareness and 
reduce workforce exposure. We also introduced two new robots 
for trial. The ExRobotics ExR-1 robot can operate safely in 
environments that carry a risk of ignitable substances in the 
air, and the Boston Dynamics Spot robot offers rapid mobility 
across uneven terrain.
In 2020, we trialled a number of robotics solutions, including the Boston 
Dynamics Spot
1. Baseline is set as the average gross equity Scope 1 and 2 emissions over 2016-2020 and may be adjusted (up or down) for potential equity changes in 
producing or sanctioned assets, with an FID prior to 2021.OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR APPROACH OUR FUTURE46  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020Investing in research 
In April, we announced an agreement with Japanese 
companies JERA Inc, Marubeni Corporation and IHI 
Corporation to undertake a joint study examining the large-
scale export of hydrogen as ammonia for decarbonising 
coal-fired power generation in Japan. The consortium 
received approval from Japan’s New Energy and Industrial 
Technology Development Organization for a feasibility study 
covering the entire hydrogen-as-ammonia value chain.Developing skills and curiosity in our communities 
We continued the company-wide roll-out of our Digital 
Academy learning platform that was launched at the end 
of 2019. The general shift to online ways of working in 
the first half of 2020 during COVID-19 saw a spike in the 
uptake. Exceeding industry adoption benchmarks, 31% of the 
workforce are actively using the platform. 
During 2020, we contributed more than A$11.8 million towards 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics initiatives in 
the community. 
Two tertiary learning facilities we have supported – the 
Woodside Building for Technology and Design at Monash 
University and E-ZONE at UWA – were successfully 
completed and opened for teaching and learning in 2020.
In 2020, our data science and operations teams worked together to install wireless sensors to fin fans at our Pluto LNG facility, expanding our monitoring capabilitiesWOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD DATA TABLES  47HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Workforce exposure hours1
Employees 7,187,170 6,830,811 7,089,138 7,172,434 7,258,871
Contractors2,35,271,462 8,746,294 10,315,447 6,016,084 6,778,640
Total 12,458,632 15,577,105 17,404,585 13,188,518 14,037,511
Number of incidents3
Fatalities – employees 0 0 0 0 0
Fatalities – contractor 0 0 0 0 0
Total fatalities 0 0 0 0 0
Recordable injuries – employees 3 3 2 5 6
Recordable injuries – contractors 8 11 21 12 17
Total recordable injuries411 14 23 17 23
Lost time injury events – employees 1 1 1 0 1
Lost time injury events – contractors 0 2 4 8 3
Total lost time injury events 1 3 5 8 4
High potential incidents511 19 7 13 10
Recordable occupational illnesses – employees 1 3 3 5 10
Recordable occupational illnesses – contractors 1 4 5 1 2
Total recordable occupational illnesses 2 7 8 6 12
Number of process safety events6
Tier 1 1 0 1 0 1
Tier 2 2 0 1 0 1
Total 3 0 2 0 2
Frequency rates3,7
Total recordable injury rate – employees 0.42 0.44 0.28 0.70 0.83
Total recordable injury rate – contractors 1.52 1.26 2.04 1.99 2.51
Total recordable injury rate70.88 0.90 1.32 1.29 1.64
Lost time injury frequency – employees 0.14 0.15 0.14 0.00 0.14
Lost time injury frequency – contractors 0.00 0.23 0.39 1.33 0.44
Lost time injury frequency70.08 0.19 0.29 0.61 0.28
High potential incident frequency70.88 1.22 0.40 0.99 0.71
Total recordable occupational illness frequency – employees 0.14 0.44 0.42 0.70 1.38
Total recordable occupational illness frequency – contractors 0.19 0.46 0.48 0.17 0.30
Total recordable occupational illness frequency70.16 0.45 0.46 0.45 0.85
Total recordable injury rate by region7
Australia 0.89 1.00 1.61 1.29 1.74
Asia 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 22.05 0.00
Overall frequency 0.88 0.90 1.32 1.29 1.64
Total recordable occupational illness frequency by region7
Australia 0.16 0.50 0.56 0.48 0.83
Asia 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 2.18
Other 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 n/a
Overall frequency 0.16 0.45 0.46 0.45 0.85
Number of lost days by region
Australia 28 113 312 167 23
Asia 0 0 0 0 0
Other 0 0 0 29 0
Overall frequency 28 113 312 196 23
Number of lost days by gender
Male employees 28 41 53 0 10
Female employees 0 0 0 0 0
Male contractors 0 72 259 196 13
Female contractors 0 0 0 0 0
Total 28 113 312 196 23
Number of recordable injuries by gender
Male employees 2 3 2 3 5
Female employees 1 0 0 2 1
Male contractors 7 11 21 11 17
Female contractors 1 0 0 1 0
Total 11 14 23 17 23
Number of recordable occupational illnesses by gender
Male employees 1 2 3 5 9
Female employees 0 1 0 0 1
Male contractors 1 4 5 1 2
Female contractors 0 0 0 0 0
Total 2 7 8 6 12
Training time spent on health and safety by region (hours)
Australia 54,014 58,976 31,795 25,505 33,445
Asia 397 96 605 0 0
Africa 19 25 13 - -
Europe 33 291 53 - -
North America 21 150 2 - -
Total 54,483 59,538 32,468 25,505 33,445DATA TABLES
1. Wherever possible, hours are recorded on the basis of actual hours worked. If actual hours cannot be determined, hours are calculated based on headcount and nominal working hours per 
person, using the number of hours for an average working day (ranging from 8 hours for office-based work to 12 hours for shift-work) without the exclusion of leave periods.
2. Decrease in exposure hours in 2020 due to decrease in activities.
3. Contractor exposure hours, incidents and frequency rates exclude contractors operating within their own health, safety and environment (HSE) management system that has no interfaces with the 
Woodside HSE management system.
4. Total recordable injuries – no high-consequence injuries occurred in 2020 and there were no significant trends in the type of injuries recorded.
5. High Potential Incidents (HPIs) – consider the consequence of a fatality and/or high-consequence injury, and the likelihood of that consequence occurring. All HPIs are formally investigated and corrective action take
6. Classified in accordance with American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 (API RP 754).
7. Frequency rates are calculated per million work hours.48  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE12020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Hydrocarbon production2
Total – equity (kt)311,552 10,293 10,389 9,518 10,890
Total (kt)429,834 28,618 30,283 29,639 34,520
Revenue
Revenue - equity ($US m)53,600 4,873 5,240 3,975 4,075
Greenhouse gas emissions6
Scope 1 emissions – equity (kt CO2-e)3,7,83,598 3,302 3,535 3,337 3,494
Scope 1 emissions (kt CO₂-e)4,79,170 8,840 9,767 9,883 10,084
Scope 2 emissions (kt CO₂-e) 10 7 8 8 14
Scope 3 emissions – equity (kt CO₂-e)932,935 27,888 - - -
Scope 3 emissions (kt CO₂-e)984,923 74,017 - - -
Scope 1 emissions intensity – equity (kt CO₂-e/kt) 0.31 0.32 0.34 0.35 0.32
Scope 1 emissions intensity (kt CO₂-e/kt) 0.31 0.31 0.32 0.33 0.29
Scope 1 emissions intensity – equity (kt CO₂-e/revenue-equity $USm)51.00 0.68 0.67 0.84 0.86
Greenhouse gas emissions by gas
CO₂ 8,860 8,506 9,356 9,439 -
CH₄ (kt CO₂-e) 300 325 400 428 -
Methane intensity – volume percentage (Sm3/Sm3)100.051 - - - -
Greenhouse gas emissions by source
Fuel combustion (kt CO₂-e) 6,839 6,496 7,048 7,037 7,495
Flare (kt CO₂-e)7559 608 696 817 654
Venting (kt CO₂-e) 1,771 1,736 2,021 1,990 1,861
Other (kt CO₂-e) 0 1 1 46 88
Flared gas7
Total flaring – equity (tonnes) 121,740 111,666 138,610 158,739 90,652
Total flaring (tonnes) 177,384 201,368 234,801 280,517 210,045
Flaring intensity – equity (t/kt) 10.5 10.8 13.3 16.7 8.3
Flaring intensity (t/kt) 5.9 7.0 7.8 9.5 6.1
Non-greenhouse gas emissions
Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (tonnes) 13,023 11,713 12,652 20,620 19,908
Sulphur oxides (SOx) (tonnes) 52 49 53 52 41
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) (tonnes) 17,665 13,223 18,759 19,138 18,508
Refrigerants
CFC-11 (tonnes) 0 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.14
Resource use6
Fuel consumption11
Total fuel consumption – equity (TJ) 49,731 45,490 48,936 42,021 49,800
Total fuel consumption (TJ) 136,480 126,412 140,433 139,786 145,356
Fuel intensity – equity (TJ/kt) 4.3 4.4 4.7 4.4 4.6
Fuel intensity (TJ/kt) 4.6 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.2
Electricity consumption
Grid electricity consumption (TJ)1252 37 43 40 68
Water
Fresh water use (m³)12,13368,017 311,129 345,576 364,667 381,919
Fresh water intensity (m³/kt) 12 11 11 12 11
Produced formation water – reinjection (m³) 4,812,942 1,888,731 4,743,523 9,575,269 8,187,635
Produced formation water – open marine (m³) 3,155,704 2,547,335 3,039,701 3,022,350 5,107,834
Produced formation water – oil load open marine (kg) 30,836 17,687 18,173 26,237 44,119
Waste
Non-hazardous (tonnes) 2,940 2,548 2,768 2,956 1,426
Hazardous (tonnes) 9,913 7,634 8,220 6,645 8,085
Total waste (tonnes) 12,853 10,182 10,987 9,601 9,511
Waste disposal
Incineration (tonnes) 0 n/a n/a n/a 7
Evaporation (tonnes) 6,198 5,030 5,511 3,115 5,663
Landfill (tonnes) 3,314 2,256 2,316 2,418 1,596
Reused / recycled (tonnes) 3,173 2,767 3,018 3,991 2,174
Other (tonnes) 168 130 142 77 71
Environmental incidents14
Total number of hydrocarbon spills >1 bbl 0 2 2 n/a 2
Total – Quantity of hydrocarbon spilt for spills >1 bbl (m³) 0 65.05 82.44 n/a 0.51
Total number of non-hydrocarbon spills >1 bbl 2 6.00 1.00 2.00 3.00
Total – Quantity of non-hydrocarbon spilt for spills > 1 bbl (m³) 27.62 12.58 1.00 4.40 19.80
1. Performance data is reported on an operated basis unless stated as Woodside equity share.
2. Hydrocarbon production includes exportable hydrocarbons only.
3. The equity portion of greenhouse gas emissions, flare, fuel and production values include data from non-operated ventures where Woodside owns an equity portion, where data has been made available.  
4. Operated greenhouse gas, flare fuel and production values are for Woodside operated production assets only.
5. Please see Annual Report 2020 for more information on Total Operating Revenue.
6. Greenhouse gas emissions, energy values and global warming potentials are estimated in accordance with the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Reporting methodology.
7. Scope 1 and flared emissions calculation methodology excludes 113 ktCO2-e of inert compounds that do not contribute to greenhouse gas emissions as defined in NGERs. 
8. Equity emissions from non-hydrocarbon producing subsidiary companies e.g. shipping companies are excluded.
9. Scope 3 emissions are based on use of sold product only and are calculated using combustion factors in accordance with NGERs.
10. Aligned methane intensity calculation to Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) methodology by volume (Sm3 methane / Sm3 marketed natural gas).
11. Fuel sources primarily include fuel gas and diesel. 
12. Grid electricity consumption and municipal water use has been partially estimated where data was not available.
13. Includes Corporate, KGP and KBSB municipal water use and freshwater use at PGP.
14. Reportable spills include spill greater than 1bbl which have been released to the environment.WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD DATA TABLES  49AUSTRALIAN TAX CONTRIBUTION (A$M)1,22020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Corporate income tax 473 447 555 537 236
Petroleum Resource Rent Tax30 0 -3 -8 -16
Federal royalties 120 189 217 153 174
Federal excise 33 39 62 59 72
Payroll tax 75 57 58 53 51
Fringe benefits tax 6 5 5 3 8
Total 707 737 894 797 525
1. Figures are reported on a cash basis (net of any refunds received) and are rounded to the nearest million.
2. Woodside's Australian tax contribution for 2016 to 2020 has been assured by Deloitte in accordance with Australian Auditing Standard on Review Engagements ASRE 2405 Review of Historical 
Financial Information Other than a Financial Report.
3. Includes refunds of tax overpaid in respect of prior years.
PEOPLE12020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Employment gender (number of staff by gender)
Male 2,546 2,676 2,537 2,531 2,499
Female 1,231 1,286 1,125 1,066 1,012
Total 3,777 3,962 3,662 3,597 3,511
Employment contract (number of staff by employment type and by gender)2
Permanent – Male 2,315 - - - -
Permanent – Female 819 - - - -
Permanent Total 3,134 3,276 3,112 3,068 3,010
Fixed term – Male 179 - - - -
Fixed term – Female 155 - - - -
Fixed term total 334 337 237 253 251
Part-time – Male 52 - - -
Part-time – Female 257 - - - -
Part-time Total 309 349 313 276 250
Total 3,777 3,962 3,662 3,597 3,511
Number of staff by employment category3
Administration – Male 105 107 109 105 90
Administration – Female 145 158 149 146 138
Technical – Male 1,021 1,040 992 1,004 1,013
Technical – Female 470 516 453 453 411
Supervisory/Professional – Male 900 978 900 878 863
Supervisory/Professional – Female 464 465 395 351 360
Middle Management – Male 486 515 502 509 496
Middle Management – Female 140 136 117 105 94
Senior Management – Male 34 36 34 35 37
Senior Management – Female 12 11 11 11 9
Total 3,777 3,962 3,662 3,597 3,511
Board Members – Male 7 7 7 8 7
Board Members – Female 3 3 3 3 3
Employees in Graduate Program (number)
Male employees 144 143 139 154 143
Female employees 151 150 143 136 127
Total 295 293 282 290 270
Employment region (number of staff by region)
Australia 3,705 3,874 3,567 3,537 3,468
Africa/Middle East 9 8 5 4 0
Asia 49 23 68 34 21
Europe 7 42 17 16 11
USA and Canada 7 15 5 6 11
Total 3,777 3,962 3,662 3,597 3,511
Total number of contractors 235 337 241 185 192
Woodside staff age distribution (years)
≤30 Male 376 386 356 350 348
≤30 Female 363 388 333 319 289
31–50 Male 1,503 1,547 1,487 1,518 1,514
31–50 Female 748 764 665 636 624
51+ Male 667 743 694 663 637
51+ Female 120 134 127 111 99
Total 3,777 3,962 3,662 3,597 3,511
Breakdown of employees per category according to Indigenous workforce (number)
Employees 144 140 130 117 103
Pathways 32 47 37 41 33
Total 176 189 167 158 136
Traineeship and apprenticeship program (number) 135 135 107 109 109
Employee turnover (number)
Male employees 288 74 101 80 87
Female employees 136 44 41 50 38
Total 424 118 142 130 125
Voluntary turnover (number) 112 112 123 112 113
Voluntary turnover (percentage) 2.9 3.0 3.5 3.2 3.3
Turnover by region (number)
Australia 418 117 137 128 123
Africa/Middle East - 0 0 0 0
Asia 1 0 3 0 0
Europe 4 1 2 1 0
USA and Canada 1 0 0 1 2
Total 424 118 142 130 125
Returning from parental leave (percentage) 99 97 97 95 86
1. Vacation students are included in relevant metrics, where appropriate.
2. Employment contract now includes gender to align with GRI 102-8. 
3. Woodside determines employment category based on job level.50  SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020PEOPLE 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Employee turnover by age group (number)
≤30 (years) 32 27 23 19 22
31–50 (years) 200 50 66 70 58
51+ (years) 192 41 53 41 45
Total 424 118 142 130 125
Total hours of training by gender
Male employees 57,647 70,626 64,105 70,050 79,827 (62,471)
Female employees 21,941 33,742 25,742 26,325 17,428 (15,752)
Total 79,588 104,368 89,847 96,375 97,255 (78,223)
Average per person hours of training by gender
Male 23 26 25 28 32 (25)
Female 18 26 23 25 17 (16)
Total 21 26 25 27 28 (22)
Average per person hours of training by gender - professional/management
Male 17 20 22 25 25 (16)
Female 17 23 22 24 16 (13)
Total 17 21 22 25 23 (16)
Total hours of training by employee type
Permanent 70,364 91,000 81,041 86,928 91,006 (72,734)
Fixed term 5,832 7,533 4,499 5,350 3,719 (3,427)
Part-time 3,392 5,835 4,307 4,097 2,530 (2,062)
Total 79,589 104,368 89,847 96,375 97,255 (78,223)
Average per person hours of training by employee type
Permanent 22 28 26 28 30 (24)
Fixed term 17 22 19 21 15 (14)
Part-time 11 17 14 15 10 (8)
Total 21 26 25 27 28 (22)
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender (%)1
Male 94 98 96 97 99
Female 95 95 93 95 97
Total 95 97 95 97 98
1. Includes performance and career development reviews completed for permanent and fixed term employees who have worked at Woodside for more than 3 months during the period.  
The performance review completion rate metric excludes vacation students and cadets.WOODSIDE PETROLEUM LTD DATA TABLES  51Health and safety
Frequency rates Frequency rates are calculated per million work hours.
Total recordable injury rate (TRIR)The number of recordable injuries (fatalities + lost work day cases + restricted workday cases + medical treatment cases  
+ permanent partial disability) per million work hours.
Lost time injury (LTI) An LTI is an incident that results in a fatality, disability or time lost from work. The number of LTIs is the sum of these.
IncidentIs one, or more, of the following: an unplanned release of energy that actually resulted in injury, occupational illness, environmental 
harm or damage to assets, a near miss, damage or potential damage to company reputation, breach of regulatory compliance and/
or legislation, security breach.
Loss of primary containment 
(LOPC)An unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from primary containment, including non-toxic and non-flammable materials 
(e.g. steam, hot condensate, nitrogen, compressed CO2  or compressed air).
Process safety event (PSE)
(Tier 1 and Tier 2)An unplanned or uncontrolled loss of primary containment (LOPC) of any material including non-toxic and non-flammable 
materials from a process, or an undesired event or condition. Process safety events are classified as Tier 1 – LOPC of greatest 
consequence or Tier 2 – LOPC of lesser consequence. As defined by American Petroleum Institute (API) recommended 
practice 754.Notes and definitions
People
Total employees Total number of employees including permanent, fixed term and part-time. Does not include secondees or contractors.
Contractors Non-Woodside employees, working within Woodside to support specific activities.
Total turnover Permanent and fixed-term employees who left Woodside voluntarily or involuntarily.
Voluntary turnover Permanent and fixed-term employees who left Woodside voluntarily for reasons not initiated by the company.
AIMS Australian Institute of Marine Science  
API American Petroleum Institute
APPEA Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration Association
ATO  Australian Taxation Office
Board Woodside’s governing body – the Board of Directors
CCS Carbon capture and storage
CEO  Chief Executive Officer
Code Woodside’s Code of Conduct
EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
ESG Environment, social and governance
Flaring The controlled burning of gas found in oil and gas reservoirs
FPSO Floating, production, storage and offloading
Greenhouse 
gasesGases that absorb infra-red radiation, including carbon
dioxide, hydrofluorocarbons, methane, nitrous oxides,
ozone, perfluorocarbons, vapour and water
GRIThe Global Reporting Initiative is a network-based
organisation that promotes sustainability reporting
worldwide. The GRI reporting framework sets out
principles and indicators that organisations can use to
measure and report their economic, environmental and
social performance.
HSE Health, safety and environmentIOGP International Association of Oil & Gas Producers
IPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation 
Association: the global oil and gas industry association for 
environmental and social issues
KGP Karratha Gas Plant
LNG Liquefied natural gas
MAC Murujuga Aboriginal Corporation
NYFL Ngarluma Yindjibarndi Foundation Limited
RAP Reconciliation Action Plan
SDG United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
TRIR Total recordable injury rate
UpstreamIndustry term for operations relating to exploring for,
developing and producing as well as marketing crude
oil and natural gas. This includes transporting crude
oil, natural gas and petroleum products by pipeline or
marine vessel.
VPSHR Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights
UWA The University of Western Australia
WA Western AustraliaGlossary
Terms
A$ Australian dollars  
bn billion
boe barrel of oil equivalent
CO₂-e carbon dioxide equivalentkt kilotonne
t tonne
tCO₂-e tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
USD US dollarsUnitsSustainable Development Report 2020
Head Office:
Woodside Petroleum Ltd
Mia Yellagonga
11 Mount Street
Perth WA 6000
Postal Address:
GPO Box D188
Perth WA 6840
Australia
T: +61 8 9348 4000
F: +61 8 9214 2777
E: companyinfo@woodside.com.au
Woodside Petroleum Ltd
ABN 55 004 898 962
woodside.com.au
