PAGE 
1
2019
SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
REPORT
Wyndham Guayaquil EcuadorPAGE 
2Executive Statements and Overview    
• A Message from our CEO  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3
• Perspectives from our Leadership  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
• Company Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Our Social Responsibility Program
• Strategy, Themes and Focus Areas  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
• Recognitions and Awards  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
• Governance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Materiality and Engagement
• Materiality  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 
• UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Action  . . . . . . . . 13
• Stakeholder Engagement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
• Global Partners  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
A Culture of Diversity and Inclusion  
• CEO Pledge for Action  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
• Affinity Business Groups  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
• Training, Mentoring and Internship Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
• Empowering Women, Veterans and LGBTQ Communities  . . .26Protecting Human Rights  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 
Supporting Our Communities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Leadership in Sustainability 
• Our Focus Areas  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
• Risk Management & Performance Targets  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38
• Management of Energy, Emissions, Water and Waste   . . . . . 39
• Wyndham Green Certification Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Responsible Suppliers Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
GRI Content Index   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Independent Assurance Statement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 572019
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTSPAGE 
3A Message from our President and CEO
At Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, we are committed to providing places to stay that are socially, ethically, and environmentally responsible  . 
With a footprint that spans hundreds of communities around the world, we engage team members, owners and partners to uphold our 
core values in thinking globally and executing locally while achieving our economic focus .  In our first Social Responsibility Report since 
becoming an independent public company (June 1, 2018), we are pleased to showcase how we are building upon the strong foundation 
of our former parent company, Wyndham Worldwide  . We remain guided by our core values and are consistently aligning our business 
and financial performance with the responsible way we operate  . Our core values are Integrity, Accountability, Inclusive, Caring and Fun . 
 
Based on Wyndham Worldwides’ legacy of leadership in Social Responsibility, we are dedicated to valuing diversity and inclusion, 
protecting human rights, supporting our communities, and fostering environmental sustainability  . 
With our commitment to acting with integrity in making hotel travel possible for all, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts was recognized as one of 
the 2019 World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute  . This distinction marked the first global accolade for the Company 
and builds upon a robust Wyndham history of recognition by Ethisphere, a leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical 
business practices .
As you will see reflected in this report, we achieved significant milestones in our first year as Wyndham Hotels & Resorts . And we are 
working to build a strong baseline of integrating Social Responsibility initiatives into our business practices .
We value Diversity & Inclusion
At Wyndham Hotels, we know that travel enables people of varied nationalities and backgrounds to meet and experience different 
cultures, raising our collective understanding and appreciation for each other around the world . That’s why we strive to maintain a culture 
of inclusion for our team members, partners, and guests – and we’ve been widely recognized as a leader in diversity  .
In our first year as an independent company, Wyndham Hotels earned a perfect score of 100 in the Human Rights Campaign’s Best Places 
to Work for LGBTQ Equality, within the same week of joining the Business Coalition for the Equality Act .
We are committed to Protecting Human Rights
We are committed to combatting human trafficking  in our communities . We have partnered with Polaris and ECPAT-USA and have 
signed The Code which provides training to our team members in an effort to prevent and combat human trafficking and have committed 
to the 5-Star Promise for Employee Safety with the American Hotel & Lodging Association .  Wyndham endeavors to provide safe spaces 
for our team members and guests .Executive Statements and OverviewPAGE 
4We foster Environmental Sustainability
We take steps every day to minimize the impact our operations have on the world around us . We have a deep commitment to preserving 
our natural resources while developing innovative solutions to mitigate our impact on climate change through linen and towel reuse 
programs, energy efficient lighting, recycling and water conservation .
Providing our over 9,000 franchise hotels with green practice education and a best practice toolbox, we are re-establishing our baseline 
data and exploring long-term targets in alignment with the latest climate science including the encouragement of renewable energy 
where feasible  .
We support our Communities
Our charitable contributions align with our values and elevate our communities . In addition to raising funds, our team members are 
actively engaged in community development through volunteer programs .
Reflecting our culture of giving and service, June through December 2018 our team members have donated millions of dollars to 
charitable causes around the world and more importantly thousands of volunteer hours through our signature “Wish Days” .   Our 
Wyndham Rewards members have donated over 100 million loyalty points - worth thousands of hotel stays - to charities since inception .
With our core values and focus on ethical practices guiding the way we do business, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts helps people realize 
the potential over every horizon . We believe in the power of travel – the ability to create lasting memories, for businesses to grow, and 
to enrich our understanding of each other in a rapidly changing world . Travel offers so much to the world, and we continue working to 
deliver it in a way we all can be proud of  . Wherever people go, Wyndham will be there to welcome them .
Geoff Ballotti
PRESIDENT AND 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
WYNDHAM HOTELS & RESORTSPAGE 
5Perspectives from our Leadership
“Our ethics and values-driven culture guides our actions . These values – integrity, accountability, 
inclusive, caring, and fun – are the lens through which we make our decisions, anchor our 
commitment to each other and serve our guests and communities .
In our first year as an independent public company, we are building upon the legacy of our former 
parent company, Wyndham Worldwide  . We are proud to continue to foster a service-driven culture 
that encourages team members to go above and beyond what’s expected in providing great 
experiences for our guests, our partners, and our communities . ”
Mary Falvey
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
“At Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, we are committed to investing in our team members’ futures and 
creating an inclusive work environment where everyone can thrive  . 
That’s why this year we launched Wyndham University to ensure team members have resources to 
develop professionally and personally; and we joined the Business Coalition for the Equality Act to 
foster workplace fairness . Both of these milestones support our welcoming culture that reflects the 
diversity of our team members, guests, owners, and communities around the world . ”
Patricia Lee
CHIEF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OFFICER
PAGE 
6Company Overview
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts (NYSE: WH) is the world’s largest hotel franchising company, with approximately 9,200 hotels across more 
than 80 countries on six continents . Through its network of approximately 817,000 rooms appealing to the everyday traveler, Wyndham 
commands a leading presence in the economy and midscale segments of the lodging industry  . The Company operates a portfolio of 
20 hotel brands, including Super 8®, Days Inn®, Ramada®, Microtel Inn & Suites®, La Quinta®, Wingate®, AmericInn®, Hawthorn Suites®, 
Trademark Collection®, and Wyndham® . Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is also a leading provider of hotel management services, with more 
than 400 properties under management . The Company’s award-winning Wyndham Rewards® loyalty program offers over 77 million 
enrolled members the opportunity to redeem points at tens of thousands of hotels, vacation club resorts and vacation rentals globally  . 
For more information, visit www  .wyndhamhotels . com .
Our Competitive 
Strengths to Deliver 
Shareholder Value
• Industry-leading 
footprint in the hotel 
industry
• Strong portfolio of well-
known brands
• Global leader in the 
economy and midscale 
segments
• Award-winning loyalty 
program
9,200
HOTELS817,000  
ROOMS80 
COUNTRIES20 
ICONIC BRANDSAPPROXIMATELY APPROXIMATELYPAGE 
7Our Social Responsibility Programs
Strategy, Themes and Focus Areas
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is committed to operating in a way that provides outstanding experiences for those we serve through places 
to stay that are socially, ethically and economically responsible  .  With a footprint spanning hundreds of communities around the world, 
we engage team members, owners and operators to uphold and leverage our core values to think globally and execute locally  . Our Social 
Responsibility program supports our company’s mission of making hotel travel possible for all, so that wherever people go, Wyndham will 
be there to WELCOME them .
THEMES FOCUS AREAS
DIVERSITY & 
INCLUSIONRecruiting, Training and Addressing Unconscious Bias
Expanding our Affinity Business Groups
Supporting Women, Veterans, LBGTQ+ Communities and Diverse Populations Across our Value Chain
HUMAN RIGHTSStrengthening our Partnership with EPCAT and Polaris
Deploying Human Rights Training Across our Hotels and Resorts
Delivering on New Industry 5-Star Promise
COMMUNITYEngaging Time and Talent of Our Team Members to Support UN Sustainable Development Goals
Supporting Community Resilience and Disaster Relief
Continuing to Deepen Impact and Reach of our Wyndham Championship Sponsorship and Partnerships
SUSTAINABILITYMinimizing Environmental Footprint in Alignment with Reductions Required for Science-based Emission Targets and 
Context-based Water Targets
Launching Wyndham Green Certification Program to Further Harmonize Best Practices Across our Portfolio of 9,000+ Hotels
Expanding Impact Through Engagement with Franchisees, Guests and Suppliers seesPAGE 
8Our four Social Responsibility Themes are designed to directly support our Company’s vision and strategic goals:
3-Year Vision and Strategic Goals (2019-2021)
VISION
To be the world’s leading provider of select-service hotel brands by 
delivering the best value to owners and guests .
STRATEGIC GOALS
SHAREHOLDER RETURNA Cultur e of
Diversity & Inclusion
We welcome differ ent 
perspectiv es
Inclusiv e and fun
workfor ceProtecting 
Human Rights
We welcome ne w ideas to  
combat human tr afficking
Integrity , doing the 
right thing to 
ensur e all ar e saf eSupporting our 
Communities
We welcome t eam member 
engagement
Caring for 
communities in which 
we live and w orkLeadership in 
Sustainability
We welcome the 
opportunity to act 
responsibly
Accountable for our 
part in pr otecting the 
environment
FOSTER A 
VALUES-DRIVEN CULTURE
Leverage our values to 
attract, retain and engage 
our peopleCAPTURE GREATER
MARKET SHARE
Win more business 
through sales, marketing, 
loyalty and technologyDRIVE NET
ROOM GROWTH
Become the preferred 
franchisee partner, drive 
quality growth and reduce  
attritionELEVATE THE BRAND
EXPERIENCE
Commit to quality and 
strengthen the brand 
experience for the 
everyday travelerPAGE 
9Recognition and Awards
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts 
was recently recognized for 
our culture of inclusion by the 
Human Rights Campaign on 
the heels of reinforcing our 
commitment to workplace 
fairness for LGBTQ team 
members . Within the same 
week of joining the Business 
Coalition for the Equality Act, 
we earned a perfect score of 
100 as a Best Place to Work 
for LGBTQ Equality!With a commitment to acting 
with integrity and a dedication 
to making hotel travel possible 
for all, Wyndham Hotels & 
Resorts has been recognized 
as one of the 2019 World’s 
Most Ethical Companies 
by the Ethisphere Institute  . 
This distinction marks the 
first global accolade for our 
Company and builds upon a 
strong Wyndham history of 
recognition by Ethisphere, 
a leader in defining and 
advancing the standards of 
ethical business practices .La Quinta Inns & Suites by 
Wyndham was honored to be 
included in the Military Times 
Best For Vets: Employers 
rankings for the fourth year in 
a row!
Military Friendly Employer, 
Military Friendly Spouse 
Employer, Military Friendly 
Diversity Supplier, Military 
Friendly Brand, Best for Vets, 
Best of the BestLa Quinta Inns and Suites by 
Wyndham was recently named 
once again as a “Best of the 
Best” Top Veteran-Friendly 
Company and Top Supplier 
Diversity Programs by U  .S . 
Veterans Magazine (USVM) . 
The “Best of the Best” annual 
review is conducted by 
DiversityComm, Inc . which 
polls hundreds of Fortune 
1000 companies to evaluate 
their initiatives for helping 
veterans advance, get 
employed and start or partner 
with a business .
PAGE 
10Governance
Board of Directors
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts’ Board of Directors is comprised of 
eight members, six of whom are independent directors, as defined 
by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange  . Our independent 
directors bring experience, oversight and expertise from outside 
the Company and our industry, with the Chairman and CEO 
providing company-specific experience and expertise  . Stephen P  . 
Holmes is Chairman of the Board and Geoff Ballotti serves as the 
Chief Executive Officer of Wyndham Hotels & Resorts .  
The Board of Directors reflects our inclusive philosophy and is 
comprised six men and two women in addition to Caribbean and 
Asian American representation .  In addition, Wyndham Hotels & 
Resorts is also fortunate to retain the Board services of The Right 
Honourable Brian Mulroney, who was Prime Minister of Canada 
from 1984 to 1993 . As Prime Minister, Mr  . Mulroney was recognized 
for environmental leadership – named the “Greenest Prime 
Minister in Canadian History” for legislative efforts to improve air 
quality, maintain biodiversity, and reduce pollution .
Environmental, Social and Governance Oversight
The Board of Directors, through the Corporate Governance committee, oversees and is updated on the performance and compliance of 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts’ Social Responsibility programs:
• Myra J  . Biblowit serves as the Chair on the Corporate Governance committee and provides input into the strategy and 
direction of our Corporate Responsibility program .
• Our Chief Social Responsibility Officer provides updates to the entire Board and the Corporate Governance committee  .
Within our Board’s Corporate Governance committee, areas of focus include our annual goals related to social and environmental 
performance, associate development and compliance  .
PAGE 
11Social Responsibility Leadership Council
Our Social Responsibility Leadership Council (SRLC) is chaired by our President and CEO and our Chief Social Responsibility Officer  . The 
SRLC will meet quarterly to provide oversight and direction for the global Social Responsibility program .  Subject matter experts will be 
invited to discuss pressing global socially-responsibility related topics, including climate change, water and diversity, with the intent of 
receiving advice and guidance on the overall impact on the organization .  In addition, the SRLC is designed to:
• Champion Social Responsibility by reinforcing and promoting an organizational culture that encourages the participation in Social 
Responsibility  .
• Review emerging environmental and social risk and opportunities .
• Ensure that we are meeting our strategic performance goals for key indicators related to social responsibility  .
• Drive engagement, build awareness and celebrate the successes of our Social Responsibility Programs .
PAGE 
12Materiality
Guided by the Global Reporting Initiative’s materiality principles 
and approach, we continue to engage with industry experts and 
stakeholders to assess the materiality of key economic, social and 
environmental topics for our industry and our Company  .
Collaboration with the International 
Tourism Partnership and our 
Stakeholders
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has worked in partnership with the 
International Tourism Partnership (ITP), more than 15 international 
hotel companies and over 200 internal and external stakeholders 
to provide a voice for environmental, social and economic issues 
in the hospitality industry  . We recognize that our long-term 
business interests are fundamentally linked to environmental, 
social and economic stability  .
Environment
Leadership &
Governanc eSocial Capital
Human CapitalEnvironment
Leadership
&
Governanc eSocial
Capital
Human
Capital
Business Model
& Inno vation
Business Model & Inno vationUNIVERSE OF
SUSTAINABILITY
ISSUES• GHG Emissions
• Air Quality
• Ener gy Management
• Wa ste & Wastewater 
Management
• Wa ste & Hazar dous 
Management
• Ecological Impacts• Human Rights & 
Community Relations
• Data Priv acy/Security
• Access & Affordability
• Product Quality & 
Safety
• Cust omer W elfare
• Selling Pr actic es & 
Product Labeling
• Labor Pr actic es
• Emplo yee Health & 
Safety
• Emplo yee 
Engagement, Div ersity 
& Inclusion• Ethics and Complianc e
• Management of the 
Legal & Regulat ory 
Environment
• Critical Incident Risk 
Management
• Syst em Risk 
Management
• Ecological Impacts• Product Design & Lifecy cle 
Management
• Business Model Resilienc e
• Supply Chain Management
• Mat erials Sour cing & Efficienc y
• Physical Impacts of Clima te ChangePotential or A ctual Impacts to  Wyndham Hot els & Resorts or our IndustryPotential or A ctual Stak eholder Conc ernETHICS AND C OMPLIANCE
SECURITYLONG- TERM EC ONOMIC TRENDS/ISSUES
(INCL UDING PUBLIC HEAL TH) 
DATA PRIV ACY / 
SECURITY
HUMAN CAPIT AL &
STAFF DEVEL OPMENT
ANIMAL WELF ARETRANSPOR TATION & 
CONSTRUCTION MA TERIALSLOCAL EC ONOMIC DEVEL OPMENTFOOD WASTE FREEDOM OF AS SOCIA TIONINNO VATIONCOMMUNITY ENGA GEMENT / CHARIT ABLE GIVING
IMPACT FROM PRODUCT S AND SER VICES:
LOCAL SOURCING AND PURCHASED GOOD SCHILD & FORCED LABOROCCUPATIONAL HEAL TH AND SA FETY
CORPORA TE GO VERNANCECLIMA TE STRATEGIESLABOR STAND ARD S SOLID WA STEBIODIVERSITYPRESER VING OFFICIAL HERIT AGEBRIBER Y & C ORRUPTIONHUMAN TRAFFICKINGENVIRONMENT AL MANA GEMENT :
ENERG Y & WA TER USE, WAT ER POLL UTION
* The materiality survey was conducted as part of Wyndham Worldwide CorporationOur Environmental, Social and 
Economic Materiality Matrix
To develop our materiality matrix, we conducted our own 
survey* of a sample representation of our stakeholders . We also 
incorporated the findings from our work with ITP as well as recent 
findings from the World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) and the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework .
The five critical issues for hotels, as identified by the WTTC, are presented in green .PAGE 
13UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in Action
We actively support the UN Sustainable Development Goals framework, prioritizing action toward the following goals as part of our long-
term for social responsibility roadmap:
SDGs Targeted Strategies and Actions
• Support low-income families through our community programs 
• Advance micro-enterprises through our procurement activities
• Address hunger through our community programs
• Promote nutrition among team members 
• Support suppliers that engage in sustainable agriculture practices
• Participate in initiatives to build and enhance skills in local communities
• Provide our team members with ongoing educational and talent development opportunities
• Continue to promote diversity and provide leadership opportunities among our female team members
• Support initiatives to empower women and girls through our community programs
• Develop women-owned businesses through our Wyndham Diverse Suppliers Program and Women in 
Development Incentive Program
• Develop targeted programs to address water challenges for locations with identified water risks
• Reduce water consumption and continue to invest in water-efficient technologies
• Provide local hiring opportunities in travel and tourism as we continue to expand across the globe
• Be at the forefront on industry initiatives to address human trafficking and human rights issues in the travel and 
tourism industry
• Enforce our Supplier Code of Conduct
• Embark on a multi-decade journey to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in alignment to what is required 
to limit the rise in global temperatures in alignment with IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) 
recommendations
• Promote and expand best practices for biodiversity protection across our properties
• Partner with suppliers to make a meaningful impact to protect forests and biodiversity
• Continue to advance sustainable development through active participation in industry initiatives PAGE 
14Stakeholder Engagement
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts’ approach to stakeholder engagement is designed to be 
inclusive, strategic and results oriented to respond to key topics of greatest concern and 
opportunity  .
Throughout the year, we actively engage with our team members, shareholders, suppliers, 
communities, franchisees and guests (as detailed in the image on the right) . Additionally, 
we actively participate in leading industry associations and with promoters of academic 
research to help solve global environmental, social and economic challenges .
TEAM MEMBERS
• Count on Me Service 
Culture
• Performance Reviews
• Surveys and Town Hall 
meetings
• Affinity Business Groups
• Mentoring and Training 
Programs
• Recognition Programs
• Wyndham WelcomeSHAREHOLDERS
• Investor Relations
• Shareholder Services
• 10-K, Proxy and SEC 
filings
• CDP Climate submissionSUPPLIERS
• Global Conference
• Wyndham Green
• Diversity Programs
COMMUNITY
• Wish Days 
(volunteerism)
• Wyndham 
ChampionshipFRANCHISEES
• Training Workshops
• Educational 
Opportunities
• Green Certification 
Programs
• Global Conference
GUESTS
• Wyndham Rewards 
Loyalty Program
• Guest Satisfaction 
Survey
• Customer Care
• Wyndham WelcomeGlobal
Partners
Shar
eholders
Suppliers
CommunitiesTeam MembersGuestsEngagementFranchisees
GLOBAL PARTNERS
• American Hotel & 
Lodging Association
• Asian American Hotel 
Owners Association
• International Tourism 
Partnership
• U .S . Travel Association
• World Travel and 
Tourism CouncilPAGE 
15Engagement and Program Highlights
Count on Me  
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts’ signature Count on Me service promise defines how we interact with our 
guests, partners, communities and each other  .
Through Count on Me, we aspire to: 
• Be Responsive: we respond to the needs of everyone with 
care and consideration .
• Be Respectful: we are courteous and engaged with all people, 
in every way  .
• Deliver Great Experiences: we are prepared to deliver great 
experiences, every time  .
Recognizing the critical role service plays as a leader in hospitality, 
our Count on Me service promise along with our commitment to our 
ethical core values – integrity, accountability, inclusive, caring and 
fun – is recognized and celebrated at all levels of our organization .
Career Development
Through the work of our leadership development programs, tuition reimbursement as well as 
our online University of hundreds of development programs, education is a main focus .  This is 
supplemented by one-to-one mentoring, learning circles, networking opportunities, and other 
relationship-oriented programs . In addition, our leadership experiences at West Point and Leading 
Your Organization helps to develop our company leaders .
PAGE 
16Wyndham University
At Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, we’re committed to helping 
people realize the possibilities that exist over every horizon . This 
commitment extends to our hotel owners and their teams as well 
as our own team members . As part of this commitment, we have 
created a new learning experience – Wyndham University  . 
In Wyndham University, our learners will discover curated learning 
journeys; specific to their development needs . They can also: 
• Explore fresh content through interactive learning 
webinars, courses, videos and job aids . 
• Connect with others at live speaking events and classes .
• Access mentorship materials, networking opportunities and 
industry certifications .
• Gain visibility to training recommended across various roles 
and leadership levels .
• Select a role-based learning journey, customized for key 
positions .
• Access specialized topics to support development goals 
and further grow  .
• Stay in the know with Trending @ Wyndham: full of big 
news, upcoming events and new initiatives .
Whether our learners greet guests from the front lines of a hotel 
or sit in one of our corporate offices, within Wyndham University 
they will find quick resources to help them master everyday tasks, 
and personalized development opportunities to help at every 
stage of their careers .Unique: 
147,769TOTAL: 23,348WH&R: 9, 064
Franchisees: 14,284Total # of Learners
Total # of Trainings Completed 
Hospitality Management Program
Our knowledge-packed Hospitality Management Program 
features personalized content based on experience level, 
market segment and hotel brand, hands-on simulations, 
two trade shows, and networking opportunities with 
fellow hoteliers and brand leaders .PAGE 
17Wyndham Rewards®
Recently named the number one hotel rewards program by 
readers of USA TODAY, Wyndham Rewards is the world’s most 
generous rewards program with more than 30,000 hotels, 
vacation club resorts and vacation rentals worldwide  . Designed 
for the everyday traveler, members earn a guaranteed 1,000 points 
with every qualified stay and may redeem points for a wide-range 
of rewards, including free nights at any of our nearly 9,200 hotels 
or tens of thousands of vacation 
club resorts and vacation rentals 
globally through partnership 
with Wyndham Destinations and 
others . Wyndham Rewards has 
over 75 million enrolled members 
around the globe  .
Guest Satisfaction
Top-ranked Wyndham Hotels & Resorts brand duo, Microtel by 
Wyndham and Wingate by Wyndham, secured the highest guest 
satisfaction rankings in J  .D . Power’s 2018 North America Hotel 
Guest Satisfaction Index Survey for economy and midscale hotel 
chains, respectively  . With many of its brands earning J  .D . Power 
favorable rankings, Wyndham’s recently acquired La Quinta 
midscale brand had a double-digit overall satisfaction
score increase and two-rank jump  .
PAGE 
18Global Partners
Active Engagement with Leading Organizations to Advance Environmental and Social Issues Facing the Travel 
and Tourism Industry.
American Hotel & Lodging Association
We continue to partner with the American Hotel & Lodging Association (AHLA) to advance environmental and social programs, including 
the new 5-Star Promise, aimed at enhancing hotel safety for team members and guests .  Geoff Ballotti, our President and CEO, currently 
serves as the Chair of the AHLA . 
Asian American Hotel Owners Association
The Asian American Hotel Owners Association (AAHOA) is a trade association that provides service and support for hoteliers through 
its educational offerings, political advocacy, professional development, and community engagement .  Wyndham Hotels & Resorts was a 
founding member and currently participates in AAHOA events and activities .
International Tourism Partnership
In collaboration with the International Tourism Partnership (ITP), Wyndham has worked to define the material topics for the travel and 
tourism industry  . Key issues include further developing science-based industry targets for carbon emissions and water risk, identifying 
and assessing specific human and labor issues for the industry and establishing industry best practices and targets to protect human 
rights, ensure labor standards and increase youth employment in the travel and tourism industry  .
U .S . Travel Association
The U  .S . Travel Association (USTA) is the national, non-profit organization representing all components of the travel industry that 
advocates for policies to advance and elevate the industry on the national level, engaging association members with the tools, research 
and resources needed to influence change at state and local levels . As a member, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts continues to partner with 
USTA on important industry initiatives .
World Travel and Tourism Council
We partner with the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) in establishing sustainability and climate change guidelines for the 
industry  . We have also actively participated in the WTTC’s Human Capital Working Group, which is focused on the millions of unemployed 
youth around the world, and actively developing strategies to address this challenge  .PAGE 
19United States Green Building 
Council – New Jersey Chapter
We have partnered with the United States Green Building Council 
(USGBC)  to promote the building of environmentally responsible 
and high performing structures . We have engaged with the New 
Jersey Chapter, we have worked closely with the organization 
to support sustainability outreach and education within the 
state, and have positively impacted over 15 pieces of New Jersey 
legislation .
Our Corporate Headquarters 
Recognized as one of the Highest 
Performing Green Buildings in the 
country
The building received its first Silver Certification for Commercial 
Interiors in 2010, a second Silver certification for Existing 
Buildings: Operations and Maintenance (EBOM) in 2013, 
and recently, in 2018, 22 Sylvan was awarded Gold EBOM 
recertification, which was earned through water reduction, green 
cleaning and indoor air quality management .
22 SYLVAN WAY, 
PARSIPPANY, NJPAGE 
20A Culture of Diversity and Inclusion
Travel enables people of varied nationalities and backgrounds to meet and experience 
different cultures, raising our collective understanding and appreciation for each other 
around the world.
CEO Pledge
Our CEO has signed on to The CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™  - the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance 
diversity and inclusion within the workplace  . This is a unique collaboration of more than 450 US CEOs 
and academic presidents representing nearly 12 million employees signed on to this commitment – 
agreeing to take action to cultivate environments where diverse experiences and perspectives are 
welcomed and where employees feel comfortable and encouraged to discuss diversity and inclusion . All 
the signatories of the commitment serve as leaders of their companies and committed to implementing 
the pledge within their workplaces, or where companies have already implemented one or several of the 
commitments, will support other companies in doing the same  .
Our Commitments
• Cultivate a workplace that supports open dialogue on complex, and sometimes difficult, conversations about diversity and 
inclusion .
• Share and collaborate across enterprises in order to advance Diversity & Inclusion within the business community  .
• Implement unconscious bias training in our workplace  .
2018 Workforce Demographics Highlights 
PAGE 
21Affinity Business Groups
Fully inclusive networks where empowered team members actively engage to foster innovation, help Wyndham Hotels & Resorts grow, 
and enhance Diversity & Inclusion globally  . We continue to strive to increase membership and engagement domestically & internationally 
while being in alignment with our business initiatives . In addition to the Parsippany campus we currently have organizations in Orlando, 
Florida and Saint John, Canada .
Bringing together team members to support women in their 
development and advancement while creating a culture of 
camaraderie, and teamwork .Leveraging and developing the SPECTRUM of African Americans 
as internal and external resources through leadership, education, 
innovation and networking .Leveraging the passion of our team members, we will strive to 
foster a culture of acceptance and equality within the LGBTQ 
community, and to raise awareness of LGBTQ issues through 
education .
An association of military and civilians where appreciation and 
commitment to fostering opportunities and experiences to help 
honor and advance those who served and their families .A unifying network that represents and promotes the richness of 
the Latino/Hispanic culture at Wyndham Hotels & Resorts .
SPECTRUM
A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESOR TS
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROUPSALUTES
A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESOR TS
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROUPA WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESOR TS
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROUP
Connecting Generations . The key is to be able to effectively 
address and take advantage of the differences in values .NEXT
A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESOR TS
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROUP
WOMEN ON THEIR WA Y
A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESOR TS
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROUPA WYNDHAM HOTELS & RESORTS
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROUPPAGE 
22A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESOR TS
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROUP
As part of a collaborative effort between 
our FUERTE! Affinity Business Group and 
Digital team, several Parsippany team 
members recently joined together to help 
us deliver an accurate and compelling 
website experience for our Spanish 
speaking guests in the U  .S . During three 
review sessions in March, the team 
members reviewed an impressive 161 
Spanish website property pages and 245 
property amenities to improve the quality 
of translations as well as completed a 
whopping 2,576 scenarios checks to test 
the site’s functionality  .Affinity Business Group Stories
Our Affinity Business Group Spectrum 
brought in a fascinating and highly 
regarded guest speaker, Natasha Bowman, 
author, professor and TED Talk presenter 
to discuss how ordinary actions influence 
extraordinary change  . Natasha walked 
the audience through the three Cs of 
influence - courage, candor and civility - 
and inspired team members with a clear 
sense of the power they have to effect 
massive change on both a personal and an 
organizational level .SPECTRUM
A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESOR TS
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROUP
In the development of the new Military 
Program for Wyndham Hotels & 
Resorts, Wyndham Rewards worked in 
collaboration with members of SALUTES 
Affinity Business Group to develop the 
Wyndham Rewards Perks Program for 
the Military  . Over the course of a year 
as part of their new program, SALUTES 
worked as part of a cross-functional 
team to develop key components of 
the program including a welcome gift, 
military rate and customized experience 
for all military personnel and their 
spouses . In just two short months, over 
90,000 Wyndham Rewards members 
have registered for these perks .SALUTES
A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESOR TS
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROUPPAGE 
23Training, Mentoring and Internship Programs
Training
We provide diversity & inclusion training throughout the development cycle of all team members from on-boarding to executive 
leadership  . Whether self-study or required compliance, or for individuals or team member groups, diversity and inclusion training is 
offered both online as well as in the classroom for an enhanced emotional and personal experience  . 
We believe that diversity and inclusion training should be provided as stand-alone trainings as well as incorporated in every leadership 
program we offer  . Recruiters and hiring managers attend various diversity & inclusion training, and in particular, Is it Bias, Unconscious 
Bias and our Embracing an Inclusive Culture .  Within our Manager Essentials program, interviewing skills are enhanced, with a specific 
lens of veteran and diversity best practices . 
Through our performance management, mentorship and sponsorship programs as well as our global talent review and succession 
planning process, we seek out and nurture the best performers in our organization, with special attention to under-represented groups . 
These individuals participate in various internal leadership develop programs in addition to attending external programs based on their 
interests and needs .
5 Gener ations at W ork at W yndham
• Great Depr ession
• World W ar II
• Disciplined
• Workplac e Loyalty
• Moved to  the “Burbs”
• Vaccines• Vietnam, Moon landing
• Civil/W omens Rights
• Experimental
• Inno vators
• Hard  Working
• Personal Comput er• Fall of Berlin W all
• Gulf Wa r
• Independent
• Free Ag ents
• Internet, MTV , AIDS
• Mobile PhoneTRADITIONALISTS
Born 1900- 1945BOOMERS
Born 1946- 1964GEN X
Born 1965- 1976MILLENNIAL
Born 19 77-1997GEN Z
After 1997<1.0% 22.3% 27.0% 46.4% 3.5%
• Age 20+/-
• Optimisti c
• High Expectations
• Apps
• Social Game s
• Tablet De vices• 9/11 Attacks
• Community Servic e
• Immediac y
• Confident, Di versity
• Social Ev erything
• Google, FacebookPAGE 
24Mentoring
It has been a long-standing practice to support development of corporate and our managed hotel 
team members at every stage of their career  . Mentoring leverages the Exposure component of 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts’ development framework (Experience, Exposure, and Education) by 
providing team members the opportunity to learn from the unique combination of backgrounds, 
experiences, perspectives and expertise of an individual within the organization over a period of time  . 
Our Mentoring/Learning Circle program for team members provides an opportunity to assemble a 
diverse group of team members with common goals, interests, and aspirations into an organically 
structured mentoring program that helps participants “own their development . ” 
Franchisees are able to network amongst their fellow participants when attending our training 
programs such as our Hospitality Management Program (HMP) as well as during our Global 
Conference, which lends itself to the mutual exchange of ideas, knowledge sharing and best practices .
Overall, a mentor can provide expertise to help mentees enhance their development and learning by 
assisting in:
• Developing competencies for their current roles 
• Enhancing skills that can be transferable 
• Understanding the inner workings of the organization or hotel
• Practicing the art of building relationships
• Giving and receiving feedback
• Building their networks
We are committed to continuing to foster a culture of learning, which continuously promotes 
individual growth and development .
PAGE 
25Internship Programs
Continuing our internship program from our parent company 
Wyndham Worldwide and for the 12th consecutive year, the 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts Internship Program provides an 
excellent source of strong, diverse talent to build a pipeline 
for Wyndham Hotels & Resorts and the industry  .  Our interns 
provide us a view of the next generation of talent, Generation Z, 
as they enter the workforce  . At Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, we 
are building our brand awareness and employment opportunities 
at competitive four-year universities and graduate schools, with 
partner organizations, and across industries, allowing us to attract 
the best talent .
16% 
Conversion ra te2016
61.6%  Of int erns we re female  and 37.5%  were minority
2017
24% Of int erns we re female  and 34%  were minority
2018
50%  Of int erns we re female  and 50%  were minority2016
2017
201862% of interns were female 
and 38% were minority
24% of interns were female  
and 34% were minority
50% of interns were female 
and 50% were minorityProviding opportunity for diversity to thrive:
Since 2007, there
have been 674 
participants in the 
intern program .
We have hired 110 
eligible interns
into full-time and 
part-time positions.
PAGE 
26Empowering Women, 
Veterans and LGBTQ 
Communities
Women
To encourage increased diversity among our third-party 
franchisees and within the hospitality industry, Wyndham Hotels 
& Resorts has launched a “Women in Development Incentive 
Program” .  The program is intended to attract top women hotel 
developers and entrepreneurs from diverse backgrounds and 
involves Wyndham Hotels & Resorts qualifying franchisees to 
develop Wyndham-branded hotels . Our Affinity Business Group, 
Women on Their Way is partnering with external organizations to 
provide guidance and direction on this endeavor  .
31% 48% 64%LEADERSHIP
BANDMID-LEVEL
BANDPROFESSIONAL
BANDPERCENT AGE OF WO MEN:
31.2%  are of manager 
band and 62%  total 
overall workfor ce 
represent minority gr oups.
Women Women WomenPAGE 
27Active Military, Veterans and Their 
Families
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is not just military friendly, 
we are military family friendly.  WH&R works to 
support our military families by: 
1 . Hiring veterans  and military spouses 
2 . Providing benefits through our Wyndham Rewards loyalty 
program 
3 . Engaging in community outreach and charitable 
contributions
4 . Sourcing from veteran and military spouse-owned 
businesses
Corporate Fellowship Initiative
The U  .S . Chamber of Commerce’s Hiring Our Heroes (HOH) 
Corporate Fellowship initiative is a nationwide effort to connect 
transitioning service members with meaningful employment 
opportunities and provide them with civilian life transition skills .  
The program/cohort is conducted three times per year with each 
lasting 13 weeks and consisting of the Fellow working 4-5 days per 
week at a host company  .  This hands-on experience is combined 
with additional civilian employment skills taught by a HOH lead 
training program, which all Fellows attend weekly  .  
The program serves as more than a springboard to a job  .  The 
Fellowship allows employers to give back in a unique way, by 
helping our transitioning military members prepare to be part 
of the civilian work force  .  Many of these soldiers, sailors and 
airmen have never held a civilian job, interviewed or filled out a 
job application .  After years of defending our country, looking for 
a job in the private sector is often defined as one of the scariest 
things they have ever done  .  
Education With Industry Program
The Education With Industry (EWI) program provides government 
students a hands-on educational experience with industry that is 
not typical of Air Force service  .  The program exposes Air Force 
members to business best practices by immersing them with a 
variety of industry partners to develop future Air Force leaders 
with business acumen and empathy that can be used to enhance 
cross-functional government teams . The HOH Corporate Fellowship allows employers to train service 
members for skills needed in a civilian work environment .  It also 
shows the Fellows the incredible value their leadership, problem 
solving, coaching/ training and organization skills can bring to the 
table in the private sector  . 
 
La Quinta has been a leading partner with the Hiring Our Heroes 
Fellowship since 2015 .  During our four years in the program, La 
Quinta has hosted over 14 Fellows, extended 13 offers, and had 
8 offers accepted, with 75% still employed by us today  . Our first 
Fellow came to us from the Ft . Hood Fellowship and is still with us 
today, as a General Manager in Texas .PAGE 
28More than 175 Wyndham team members from our Parsippany 
and Irving corporate offices and our Wyndham Grand Orlando 
Bonnet Creek, Wyndham Grand Clearwater Beach and Wyndham 
Orlando Resort International Drive properties recently volunteered 
alongside Colonel, U  .S . Marine Corps, Ret . and NASA Astronaut 
Randy Bresnik at the Gary Sinise Foundation’s Snowball Express 
event . Held this year in Orlando, the four-day experience aims to 
brighten the holiday season for family members of fallen military 
heroes .
As your companion on the road, Super 8 
is proud to support our military members 
and their families . Our brand offers reserved 
veteran parking at every hotel in North 
America and military discounts, raises 
awareness of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder 
(PTSD) through our partnership with the 
nonprofit Human Hug Project . We also help 
provide free temporary lodging to military 
and veteran families receiving care at major 
military and VA medical centers through 
a partnership with Fisher House Foundation . With over 70% of 
military bases within 25 miles of a Super 8 hotel, we look forward 
to continuing to support these very important guests . La Quinta is honored to 
support members of the 
military, veterans, and their 
families . Through our Salutes 
program, we’ve hired over 
1,500 veterans, military 
spouses, and caregivers, and 
established partnerships with 
military non-profits like Carry 
The Load, The Bush Center, 
US Chamber of Commerce 
Foundation, Team Fisher House, Operation Homefront and more  .
PAGE 
29LGBTQ Communities
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts joined the Business Coalition for the 
Equality Act, a group of leading U  .S . employers that support the 
federal legislation that would provide the same basic protections 
to LGBTQ people as are provided to other protected groups under 
federal law  .  In joining the Business Coalition for the Equality Act, 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts reinforced its strong history of diverse 
and inclusive practices, with full leadership support, to its team 
members, partners and customers .
Previously as part of Wyndham Worldwide, the Human Rights 
Campaign named the company as one of the Best Places to Work 
for LGBTQ Equality nine times with a perfect score of 100  . This 
year Wyndham Hotels & Resorts carries on that tradition and has 
been recognized for its culture of inclusion by the Human Rights 
Campaign and earned a perfect score of 100 as a Best Place to 
Work for LGBTQ Equality  . 
Sharing the Pride with our LGBTQ Guests and 
Communities
The Alexander Hotel by Dolce in the heart of Indianapolis takes 
pride in creating a diverse and inclusive environment for all 
guests and has a strong connection to the Indianapolis LGBTQ 
community  . The Alexander is the Official Host Hotel for the 
Indianapolis Pride Festival . Supporting wedding celebrations for 
LGBTQ couples is a critical part of the hotel’s focus on inclusivity  .  
The hotel is also the Headquarters Hotel for the LGBTQ Film 
Festival each November and the Host Hotel for the TGIF Classic, 
an international LGBTQ bowling tournament . The hotel offers 
special group rates for attendees of these events .  The Alexander 
is TAG (Travel Advocacy Group) approved as a LGBTQ community 
friendly accommodation . The Business Coalition for the Equality Act
At Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, we are committed to 
creating an inclusive work environment where all of our 
team members can thrive  . That is why at the Diversity and 
Inclusion Conference in Philadelphia, we joined the Business 
Coalition for the Equality Act to reinforce our commitment to 
workplace fairness for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and 
queer (LGBTQ) team members .
For 25 years, the Ramada Plaza Hotel and Suites in the center of 
West Hollywood and Santa Monica Boulevard has been actively 
involved with the LGBTQ community  . They were the original hotel 
sponsor for events such as Outfest Film Festival and AIDS Walk 
LA and is currently the host hotel for the WEHO Sports Festival 
and many other popular LGBTQ events . The hotel also participates 
in promotions across the International Gay & Lesbian Travel 
Association and LA Travel and Convention Bureau . PAGE 
30Protecting Human Rights
ECPAT-USA: 
The Code and 
Policies
Partner with ECPAT-USA, an 
organization whose mission is 
to protect every child’s human 
right to grow up free from the 
threat of sexual exploitation 
and trafficking .
The Code is a joint venture 
between the tourism 
private sector and ECPAT 
International to show a 
commitment to end the 
commercial sexual exploitation 
of children .  Human Rights 
Statement
We are committed to 
operating our business in a 
manner consistent with the 
principles contained in the 
United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights 
and Global Compact . In 
addition, the Company’s 
core values showcase its 
commitment to ethical 
business practices and good 
corporate citizenship  .Modern Slavery 
Statement 
We are committed to 
combatting slavery and human 
trafficking by continuing 
to develop resources and 
educating our employees and 
stakeholders across relevant 
areas of our business and 
supply chain .Training
Hotels are one of many venues 
that traffickers use to exploit 
their victims .  As a result, 
hospitality industry leaders are 
increasingly recognizing the 
unique role they can play in 
preventing and disrupting this 
crime  .  
Our online training program, 
available through the 
Educational Institute of the 
American Hotel & Lodging 
Association in partnership 
with ECPAT-USA and Polaris, 
addresses the issue of human 
trafficking and discusses the 
intersections between human 
trafficking and the hospitality 
industry  .We, along with other leaders in our industry, remain committed to human rights and 
putting a stop to human trafﬁcking.PAGE 
31The 5-Star Promise
In 2018, we partnered with American Hotel & Lodging Association 
(AHLA) for the 5-Star Promise, a pledge to provide hotel 
employees across the U  .S . with employee safety devices (ESDs) 
and commit to enhanced policies, trainings and resources that 
together are aimed at enhancing hotel safety, including preventing 
and responding to sexual harassment and assault . Wyndham 
Hotels & Resorts is proud to unite with our industry in support 
of the 5-Star Promise, showing our joint commitment to the 
incredible people who help make our guests’ travels memorable  .  
We are committed to our team members’ safety and security  .
WORKING TOWARD OUR COMMITMENT
We are on track with our commitment to the 5-Star Promise 
and expect to deploy safety devices and roll out training to 
our managed team members, and make solutions available 
and roll out training for our franchisees, all in the third quarter 
of 2019  .
PAGE 
32Supporting our Communities
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts serves millions of guests every year, providing memorable 
vacation experiences in some of the world’s most beautiful destinations. Supporting those 
communities across the globe in which we work and live is a core value at Wyndham 
Hotels & Resorts and is reflected through Philanthropy. The Company’s philanthropic goals 
are supported through in-kind donations and volunteer hours and by raising awareness 
and funds for organizations related to our mission.
Our philanthropy captures the dedication and pledge of team members, leadership and business partners 
to make lasting, important contributions in the communities where we operate, enabling the Company to deliver on its core values and 
bring to life its Count on Me service culture to our customers and communities around the world . Our program’s duty is to improve the 
lives of future generations globally, focusing on education, wellness, conservation, disaster relief and other prioritized UN Sustainable 
Development Goals .
Volunteering
• Board Service – Executives giving of their time on non-
profit boards 
• Mentoring – Big Brothers Big Sisters (BBBS), Junior 
Achievement programs   
• Pro Bono – NJ LEEP, Pro Bono Partnership
• Walk/Runs – American Cancer Society, BBBS, Marine 
Corps, Carry The Load
• Wish Day – Each team member in US and Canada is given 
a day off to volunteer 
PAGE 
33Giving
As a hospitality company, service is in our DNA . Our teams and franchisees around the world actively engage in their communities, 
generously giving in ways to enhance the lives of others . Wyndham Hotels & Resorts supports various charitable programs including  
youth and education, military, community and environmental programs . Our charitable endeavors may change from year to year 
depending on need, but we look to support our programs such as the Wyndham Championship Fore! Good, Fisher House and Polaris .  
As part of our giving efforts including Wyndham Rewards and its members, the program has donated more than 102 million points since 
inception .
Days Inn is the brand that is all about making our time together 
brighter and Starlight Children’s Foundation is all about making 
the in-hospital experience for 
terminally ill children brighter  . With 
shared values, our two organizations 
have joined together to bring that 
promise to life through activities that 
will enhance the hotel and hospital 
experience through an online/on-
property Design a Gown contest, 
and an ongoing social content series 
engaging with the community to share 
words of encouragement and hope to 
children and families .
Delivering smiles in every town, 
Howard Johnson has partnered 
with the Y to encourage 
communities to create new 
memories by being active, 
bringing people closer together 
and fostering new friendships with the hope 
of positive change  . Through our partnership, 
Y members can save up to 20% off at 
participating hotels across the country with 
10% of every booking being donated back 
to the Y to help support its mission for 
youth development, healthy living and social 
responsibility  .Brand Partnerships
Wyndham Reward Members 
have donated 102 Million Points - 
worth thousands of hotel stays - since 
inception .PAGE 
34Disaster Relief 
In times of great need Wyndham Hotels & Resorts reacts by implementing programs designed to assist not only the community, but also 
our team members .  The Wyndham Relief Fund was created to help employees who are facing financial hardship immediately after a 
natural disaster or an unforeseen personal hardship  . We do this by donating actual monetary funds and Wyndham Rewards points .  Both 
the company and team members provide gifts to the Wyndham Relief Fund . This provides immediate assistance and also long-term 
benefits to those impacted by hardship  .
PAGE 
35Wyndham Championship
Wyndham Rewards is the proud title sponsor of the Wyndham 
Championship, the final stop on the PGA TOUR FedEx Cup regular 
season . 
Contested annually on the Donald Ross-designed course at 
Sedgefield County Club in Greensboro, N . C ., the Wyndham 
Championship was founded in 1938, and has been creating 
significant charitable impact throughout the Piedmont Triad . 
The Wyndham Championship is presented by the Piedmont 
Triad Charitable Foundation, a registered 501(c3) non-profit 
organization .  
Creating a positive impact in the community has always 
been a central focus of the Wyndham Championship, and the 
Wyndham Championship Fore! Good program highlights all 
of the ways the Tournament gives back . Whether inspiring the 
next generation through education, supporting community 
development, or helping preserve our natural resources, the 
Wyndham Championship’s local impact is “Fore! Good . ” In 2018, 
the Championship supported over 50 local, regional and national 
charities with over $1 .5 million in charitable impact .
Key to Wyn:
For the third consecutive year, Wyndham Rewards donated 
the “Key To Wyn” House, a fan amenity used during the 
Wyndham Championship golf tournament, to Habitat for 
Humanity  .PAGE 
36WH&R Team Members Score for 
Special Olympics
It was gridiron madness when several of our team members suited 
up and ran and passed their way to help Special Olympics of 
New Jersey at the 13th annual New York Giants Snow Bowl flag 
football tournament held at MetLife Stadium . Wyndham Hotels & 
Resorts was proud to be a sponsor this year with team members 
participating in three games in the coed division . 
Special Olympics New Jersey provides year-round sports training, 
competition, leadership opportunities and health screenings to 
more than 25,000 athletes . 
PAGE 
37Leadership in Sustainability
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is committed to protecting the environment in which we live, 
work and enjoy. As part of our strategic vision of fostering a values-driven culture, we 
understand it is essential to protect our natural capital and resources to deliver long-term 
sustainable value.  
Focus areas: 
Climate 
ChangeEnergy Efficiency  and 
Renewable EnergyWater 
ConservationWaste 
Diversion
Minimize our impact on 
climate change by reducing 
our emissionsBecome energy efficient and 
increase usage of renewable 
energyIncrease water conservation 
and identify risks and 
opportunitiesUnderstand waste profiles and 
increase diversionPAGE 
38Risk Management & Performance 
Targets
Global environmental issues from climate change, water risk, 
resource depletion and improper waste management may have 
a long-term impact on business operations . Wyndham Hotels & 
Resorts is adopting bold long-term goals to ensure that we are 
doing our part to preserve our sustainable future  .  
As Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is now an independent pure-play 
hospitality company after our spin-off from our former parent 
company, Wyndham Worldwide, we are committed to a leadership 
in environmental disclosure and performance  .  We will set 2018 as 
our new baseline specific to Wyndham Hotels & Resorts and set 
climate-related targets in alignment with science-based targets 
for Scope 1 and 2 related emissions .  Water conservation and 
waste diversion goals will be re-established and re-evaluated on a 
routine basis to meet current and future environmental concerns 
based on bi-annual risk assessments and changes in regulations .  
Our energy and water strategies are based on a low-carbon, 
science-based target pathway and the findings of our local, 
context-based water risk assessments using tools developed by 
the World Resource Institute and World Wildlife Fund .
2018 Environmental Performance ResultsGreenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Consumption
YEAR:  
2018
RESULTS: 
Energy  
(MWhs)1Emissions  
(MTCO2eq)2
Scope 1: 309,772 57,578
Scope 2: 529,008 235,785
Total:      838,780 293,363
Renewable energy - onsite generation
YEAR:  
2018
RESULTS: 
244 MWHS
Water Conservation
YEAR:  
2018
RESULTS: 
Total Water  
Withdrawl31,938,928 kgals
Municipal Water: 1,922,512 kgals
Groundwater: 16,416 kgals
Waste Diversion
YEAR:  
2018
RESULTS: 
28 .3%The boundary for our environmental performance is based on 
operational control, and includes all our operating assets that we 
own, manage, or lease  . 
Our 2018 environmental performance results represent our 
new baseline as a pure play hospitality company  .  The data 
presented follows the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate 
Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Addition for Scope 1 
and Scope 2 . Year over year performance will be reported in 2020  .
Footnotes:
1) GRI 302-1 - Reviewed by Deloitte and Touche LLP, as detailed in the Independent Accountants’ Review Report on Page 57  .
2) GRI 305-1 and 305-2 - Reviewed by Deloitte and Touche LLP, as detailed in the Independent Accountants’ Review Report on 
Page 57  .
3) GRI 303-1 - Reviewed by Deloitte and Touche LLP, as detailed in the Independent Accountants’ Review Report on Page 57  .Note: Intensity value provided in GRI Index pages 53 and 54 .
Note: Intensity value provided in GRI Index page 54 .PAGE 
39Management of Energy, Emissions, 
Water and Waste
Leveraging Technology
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has adopted the Wyndham Green 
Toolbox, a proprietary online environmental management system, 
developed to track, measure and report energy, emissions, water 
and waste diversion performance globally  . 
Customized in 2018 to Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, the Toolbox 
is a state-of-the art environmental management system that was 
created to be flexible, scalable and customizable to match the 
Company’s global presence  .
Our properties can implement efficiency measures, track projects 
and receive direct feedback from the results of conservation 
measures . The use of KPI widgets enhances the user experience, 
making the information more engaging and easier to understand .Travelodge by Wyndham is energizing adventure with 
National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) . With 
over 75% of its properties within a 50-mile 
radius of national parks , Travelodge is driving 
awareness for the preservation of our nation’s favorite 
places while providing a basecamp for adventurers to 
refuel for the day ahead . In 2018, Travelodge launched its 
first multi-year campaign, #Travelarge , in partnership 
with NPCA and Chris Burkard, an acclaimed landscape 
photographer and conservationist, capturing his journey 
documenting the national parks of the American 
Southwest . Chris shared stories of untamed landscapes 
and outdoor adventures that encourage others to take 
risks, appreciate nature, and support conservation 
efforts . Much like Travelodge, Chris believes national park 
conservation is important and uses his creative eye to 
promote the places he considers sacred .
Supporting Conservation
PAGE 
40In 2019, we will be launching our Wyndham Green Certification, which is intended to connect all of our performance improvement 
mechanisms into one comprehensive program . The certification is a progressive five-level program that builds from the initial core level 
to expert . Each level is comprised of five to seven actions that address energy, water and operational efficiencies as well as other industry 
best practices . Our initial focus is on low-to-no-cost, quick-payback efficiency items focused on operational and product improvements .  
More importantly, the certification also focuses on education of both team members and guests while raising awareness on operational 
issues that could help increase efficiency  .
Wyndham Green Certification Program
BRAND
SUPPOR TOPERA TIONS
DESIGN AND 
CONSTRUCTIONSOURCING &
PRODUCT S
ENGINEERING
Based on initial Quality Assurance screening, the certification program is receiving elevated demand and over 1,400 properties 
would be eligible for certification at program launch .Wyndham Hotels & Resorts strives to fully integrate the Wyndham Green program throughout its value chain by engaging and educating 
executive and brand leaders, team members, design and construction, franchisees and our suppliers .  By building a comprehensive 
program we can engage the value chain and incorporate industry best practices to deliver triple bottom line results . An effective way to 
achieve this is by developing our own internal Wyndham Green Certification program with an objective to reduce cost through efficiency, 
increase recognition and help drive revenue from environmentally conscious business and leisure travelers .PAGE 
41By participating in our towel 
and linen re-use program at 
our hotels, guests staying for 
multiple nights can choose 
not to have their linens and 
towels laundered every day 
– reducing both water and 
energy consumption .
The Alexander, a Dolce Hotel, has been 
awarded LEED® Silver certification in 
LEED®’s New Construction & Major 
Renovations category  . The Alexander is 
the only hotel in Indianapolis with LEED 
certification and is part of the 10-acre 
CityWay neighborhood, located at South 
and Delaware streets, developed by 
Buckingham Companies .WGC Quick Payback Best Practices WGC Level Payback
Towel and linen reuse Core Immediate
Interior energy efficient lighting Core < 1 year
Water efficient sink fixtures Essential < 1 year
Water efficient showerheads Essential < 1 year
Heating and cooling set points or occupancy controls Essential < 1 to 2 years
Basic preventive maintenance Essential < 1 year
Water efficient flush fixtures in common areas Proficient < 1 to 2 years
Air sealing Proficient < 1 year
Lighting occupancy controls in low traffic areas Proficient < 1 to 2 years
Exterior energy efficient lighting Proficient < 1 to 2 years
THE ALEXANDER, DOLCE
INDIANAPOLIS, INThe first three levels of the Wyndham Green Certification (WGC) prioritize quick-payback efficiency 
measures .PAGE 
42Partnering to Reduce Our Scope 3 Emissions
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts continues to partner with Avis Budget Group and the United eco-Skies program to reduce our environmental  
impacts attributed to Scope 3 business travel emissions, which includes air travel, car service and car rentals .  As a result of these 
partnerships, we will report our Scope 3 related emission offsets in our 2020 reporting season .
Responsible Supplier Program 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has a vast supplier network to provide goods and services to properties around the globe  . Strategic Sourcing 
leverages the Company’s combined global purchasing power to negotiate the highest quality products and services at the best possible 
value  . The primary sourcing categories include operating supplies, furniture and fixtures, food and beverage, technology, banking and 
other ancillary services .  
Strategic sourcing also works with the Social Responsibility team to ensure a wide range of product and service options that align with 
our strong commitment to environmental, social and governance issues globally  . In order to do business with Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, 
we demand the highest level ethical behavior  . In all instances we expect adherence to our Core Values in addition to complying with 
the Supplier Code of Conduct and all applicable laws and regulations in all locations where a supplier conducts business . We continue 
to evaluate our suppliers though our Responsible Supplier Survey, which not only focuses on sustainability and green products but also 
includes questions on philanthropic initiatives and human rights .  We recognize each supplier as “Responsible” based on the resulting 
score from the survey criteria . In 2018, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has greater than 25% of procurable spend with suppliers that meet the 
Responsible Supplier criteria . The program is designed to encourage innovation for competitive differentiation, cost and associated risk 
reduction within our supply chain, and brand enhancement and to foster collaboration and engagement with our suppliers, franchisees 
and other stakeholders . The survey is comprised of over 50 questions and covers the following:
Policy Compliance
Data Tracking and Targets Reporting
Energy and Carbon Emissions Engagement
Water Consumption Philanthropy
Waste Human Rights
Sourcing Innovation
In 2018, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has greater than 25% of procurable spend with suppliers that 
meet the Responsible Supplier criteria .PAGE 
43Sustainable Supplier Partnership Highlight 
ECOLAB
ECOLAB is a global leader in water, energy and hygiene technologies and services that operates at the center of the water-energy-
food nexus . ECOLAB  helps companies in more than 40 industries throughout the world grow and succeed while minimizing their 
environmental impact .  ECOLAB’s partnership with Wyndham Hotels & Resorts helps provide clean, safe and resource efficient operations 
and delivers a true win-win result .  In 2018 we tracked the results of our products and services at almost 3,500 Wyndham properties 
globally with amazing results .  Our eROI summary presents the impact of over 84 . 7 million of gallons of water saved while saving over 
650,000 therms of natural gas and avoiding 398,000 pounds of waste to landfill .
PAGE 
44Supplier Diversity 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has a highly developed supplier diversity program, including strong efforts to engage suppliers owned 
by veterans, Latinos, African-Americans, women, the LGBTQ community, people with disabilities, and other businesses owned by 
traditionally underrepresented groups . By maintaining a diverse supply chain, we are able to build on a rich foundation of perspectives 
and opportunities that benefit our company and the experience we provide our customers . Our strong tier-1 and tier-2 programs, as well 
as extensive training and mentoring for diverse suppliers, helps ensure supplier diversity is thoroughly integrated into overall business 
strategy and we have an estimated 12 .5% of total procurable spend with diverse suppliers .
Diverse Supplier Partnership Stories
Sobel Linen provides high-quality bedding and towels to many properties under the Wyndham Hotels 
& Resorts umbrella . With a certification from the National Minority Supplier Development Council, 
Sobel Linen brings a wealth of knowledge, experience and perspective to the table as a certified 
Hispanic-owned business .
American Hotel Register Company is not only the world’s premier hospitality supplier; it is also an 
officially certified women-owned business from the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council 
(WBENC) .  With extensive industry experience and more than 150 years of service, American Hotel 
offers customers over 70,000 products, 1,600 national brands, an expanding portfolio of eco-friendly 
products and best value items from its own Registry® brand . The company also delivers award-
winning design and project capabilities and fast delivery from distribution centers strategically 
located throughout the United States, Canada and the Caribbean . It is a privately-owned business and 
parent company to International Hotel Supply, and serves customers in more than 140 countries .
PAGE 
45Content IndexGLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVEPAGE 
46GRI Content Index
To develop our Social Responsibility Report, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has referenced the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, 
which represent current best practice globally for reporting on economic, environmental and social performance  . 
This GRI Content Index is designed to assist our stakeholders in locating disclosures and metrics of interest . To learn more about the GRI, 
please visit www  .globalreporting . org .
GENERAL DISCLOSURES:
Disclosures Description Location and/or Direct Answer
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Inc .
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and servicesCompany Overview (page 6)
Additional information can be found on pages 2-3 of our 2018 10-K filing, pages 8-18 of our 2019 
Investor Presentation (published in February 2019) and the Our Brands section of our corporate 
website  .
102-3 Location of headquarters Our corporate headquarters are located at 22 Sylvan Way, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054 .
102-4 Location of operationsCompany Overview (page 6)
Our global footprint encompassed more than 80 countries across six continents . 
102-5 Ownership and legal form Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is a publicly traded corporation .
102-6 Markets servedCompany Overview (page 6)
Additional information can be found on pages 2-3 of our 2018 10-K filing, pages 8-18 of our 2019 
Investor Presentation (published in February 2019) and the Our Brands section of our corporate 
website  .
102-7 Scale of the organizationCompany Overview (page 6)
With over 5,900 franchisees, we have built the largest network of franchisees of any global hotel 
company  . Additional information can be found on pages 2-3 of our 2018 10-K filing, pages 8-18 of our 
2019 Investor Presentation (published in February 2019) and the Our Brands section of our corporate 
website  .PAGE 
47102-8 Information on employees and other workersAs of December 31, 2018 , we had approximately 16,200 employees, including approximately 1,200 
employees outside of the United States . While we employ contractors and seasonal workers as 
needed, the majority of work is performed by our full-time employees .
102-9 Supply chainWyndham Hotels & Resorts has a vast supplier network to provide goods and services to properties 
around the globe  . Our primary sourcing categories include Operating Supplies, Furniture and 
Fixtures, Food and Beverage, Technology, Banking and other ancillary services . 
Additional information can be found in the “Responsible Suppliers” section page 42 of this Report .  
102-10Significant changes to the organization and 
its supply chainOn May 31, 2018, Wyndham Hotels became an independent, public company when it was spun-
off from Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, its former parent, which is now known as Wyndham 
Destinations . Wyndham Hotels’ common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the 
ticker “WH” .
Additional information can be found on the Spin-Off Information section of our corporate website  .
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approachStrategy, Themes and Focus Areas  (page 7)
Leadership in Sustainability (pages 37-42)
102-12 External initiatives Global Partners (pages 18-19)
102-13 Membership of associations Global Partners (pages 18-19)
Strategy
102-14Statement from the most senior decision-
maker about the relevance of sustainability 
and organization’s strategyExecutive Statements and Overview (pages 3-5)
102-15Key impacts, risks, and opportunitiesStrategy, Themes and Focus Areas  (pages 7-8)
Materiality (page 12)
UN SDGs in Action (page 13)
Additional information can be found in the “Our Strategy” and “Risk Factors” sections on pages 
6-7 and 17-28 of our 2018 10-K filing, We also report on climate-related risks and opportunities in 
Question C2 of our annual CDP Climate disclosures .PAGE 
48Ethics and Integrity
102-16Values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behavior With a commitment to acting with integrity and a dedication to making hotel travel possible for all, 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has been recognized as one of the 2019 World’s Most Ethical Companies 
by the Ethisphere Institute  . This distinction marks the first global accolade for our Company and 
builds upon a strong Wyndham history of recognition by Ethisphere, a leader in defining and 
advancing the standards of ethical business practices .
Additional information can be found in the Mission & Values section of our corporate website, and in 
our Business Principles and Human Rights Statement .
102-17Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 
ethicsMechanisms include our Integrity Line, which allows reporting concerns on a confidential or 
anonymous bases, is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week and 365 days a year  . We do 
not tolerate retaliation against anyone for making a report in good faith or for participating in an 
investigation .
Additional information can be found in the Mission & Values section of our corporate website, and in 
our Business Principles and Supplier Code of Conduct .
Governance
102-18Governance structure of the organization, 
including committees of the highest 
governance body and those responsible for 
decision-making on economic, environmental 
and social impacts . Governance (pages 10-11)
Additional information can be found in the Corporate Governance section of our corporate website  .
102-22Composition of the highest governance body 
and its committees The composition of our Board and its Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Executive 
Committees is reported on our Committee Composition webpage  .
Additional information can be found in our 2019 Proxy Statement .
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Stephen P  . Holmes, former Chairman and CEO of Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, serves as 
Non-Executive Chairman of our Board . The Right Honourable Brian Mulroney, also serves as our 
independent Lead Director  .
Additional information can be found in our 2019 Proxy Statement .
102-24Nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body Criteria includes a consideration of diversity, age, skills and experience so as to enhance the Board’s 
ability to manage and direct the affairs and business of the Company including, when applicable, to 
enhance the ability of committees of the Board to fulfill their duties and to satisfy any independence 
requirements imposed by law, regulation or the New York Stock Exchange  .
Our Board currently consists of eight members, six of whom are independent Directors under 
applicable listing standards and our corporate governance documents . 
Additional information can be found in our Corporate Governance Committee Charter ,  our 
Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Director Independence Criteria and our 2019 Proxy Statement .PAGE 
49102-25 Conflicts of interest Our policies regarding conflicts of interest are set forth on page 2 of our Corporate Governance 
Guidelines, and in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors .
102-28Evaluating the highest governance body’s 
performance Pursuant to the “Assessing Board Performance” section on page 6 of our Corporate Governance 
Guidelines, the Corporate Governance Committee conducts an annual self-evaluation . The 
Corporate Governance Committee utilizes the results of this self-evaluation process in assessing 
and determining the characteristics and critical skills required of prospective candidates for election 
to the Board and making recommendations to the Board with respect to assignments of Board 
members to various committees . 
102-36 Process for determining remuneration We report on our process for determining remuneration on pages 23-48 of our 2019 Proxy 
Statement .
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement (page 14)
102-41 Collective bargaining agreementsApproximately 7% of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements governing their 
employment with our Company  .
This information is also reported on page 17 of our 2018 10-K filing,
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders We identify and engage with stakeholders in consideration of our value chain impacts . 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement (pages 14-17)
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality (page 12)PAGE 
50Reporting Practice
102-45Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements Our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements include Wyndham Hotels’ assets, liabilities, 
revenues, expenses and cash flows and all entities in which Wyndham Hotels has a controlling 
financial interest .
This information is also reported on page 35 of our 2018 10-K filing,
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries We have defined report content in consideration of our value chain impacts and the information of 
greatest interest to our stakeholders .
102-47 List of material topics Please refer to the Management Approach Disclosures in this GRI Content Index, where we have 
provided disclosures on a series of economic, environment and social topics .
102-48 Restatements of informationOtherwise noted due to the spin-off from Wyndham Worldwide, there were no restatements during 
the reporting period .
102-49 Changes in reporting This is our first report as an independent operating company  .
102-50 Reporting period Our reporting period is calendar year 2018 .
102-51 Date of most recent report Not applicable  . (Wyndham Hotels became an independent, public company in May 2018) .
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53Contact point for questions regarding the 
report socialresponsibility@wyndham . com
102-56 External assurance Deloitte & Touche LLP reviewed specified indicators within the report in accordance with the 
attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants .  The 
Independent Accountants’ Review Report can be found on Pages 57 of this report .PAGE 
51MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND TOPIC-SPECIFIC INDICATORS:
Material Topics GRI Disclosure Location and/or Direct Answer
ECONOMIC
Economic 
Performance103 Management approach2018 10-K Filing
2019 Investor Presentation (Published in February 2019)
201-1Direct economic value 
generated and distributed 2018 10-K Filing
Giving to Support our Communities (pages 32-36)
201-2Financial implications and 
other risks and opportunities 
for the organization’s 
activities due to climate 
changeCDP Climate Disclosures
Leadership in Sustainability (pages 37-42)
Indirect Economic 
Impacts103 Management approachSDGs in Action (page 13)
Protecting Human Rights (pages 30-31)
Supporting our Communities (pages 32-36)
203-1Infrastructure investments 
and services supportedSupporting our Communities (pages 32-36)PAGE 
52Material Topics GRI Disclosure Location and/or Direct Answer
Anti-Corruption103 Management approachThe Business Principles sets forth compliance and ethical standards, and information concerning 
our anti-corruption policies and procedures for all associates, including directors, to carry out these 
commitments .
We support all applicable anti-corruption legislation, including the US Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act and the UK Bribery Act . Our commitment to ethical business practices is reflected in our Anti-
Corruption and Anti-Fraud Policy, Gifts, Travel and Entertainment and Contribution Standard, Conflict 
of Interest Standard and Political Activity Standard .
We also maintain a whistleblower policy and procedure to encourage the reporting of any 
inappropriate activity  . Any failures to comply with the Code of Conduct are investigated and 
disciplinary action is taken as appropriate, up to and including termination .
Additional information can be found in our Business Principles, Supplier Code of Conduct and Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors .
204-1Communication and training 
on anti-corruption policies 
and proceduresWyndham Hotels & Resorts delivers training in support of its Ethics and Compliance programs in a 
variety of formats tailored to its audience and business needs, ranging from instructor-led sessions to 
computer and mobile-compatible materials .
Suppliers are also required to take our Anti-Corruption Awareness Training, which is available at: 
https:/ /suppliers . wyndham . com .PAGE 
53Material Topics GRI Disclosure Location and/or Direct Answer
ENVIRONMENTAL
Energy 103 Management approach Leadership in Sustainability (pages 37-42)
302-1Energy consumption within 
the organization *2018 Environmental Performance Results (page 38)
* Reviewed by Deloitte and Touche LLP, as detailed in the Independent Accountants’ Review Report 
on Page 57  .
302-3 Energy intensity* In 2018, energy intensity per square foot was 25 .5 kWhs . 
* Reviewed by Deloitte and Touche LLP, as detailed in the Independent Accountants’ Review Report 
on Page 57  .
Water 103 Management approach Leadership in Sustainability (pages 37-42)
303-1 Water withdrawal by source*2018 Environmental Performance Results (page 38)
In 2018, water intensity per square foot was 0  .05905 kgals .
* Reviewed by Deloitte and Touche LLP, as detailed in the Independent Accountants’ Review Report 
on Page 57  .PAGE 
54Material Topics GRI Disclosure Location and/or Direct Answer
Emissions  103 Management approach Leadership in Sustainability (page 37-42)
305-1Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions (Scope 1)*2018 Environmental Performance Results (page 38)
Our scope 1 emissions include natural gas and other fuels combusted on site in addition to gasoline 
use in our fleet vehicles . 
The following gases are included in the GHG inventory: CO2, CH4, N2O, and HFCs and the reductions 
are compared to prior year emissions . For the calculation of  Scope 1 and 2 emissions, we utilized 
the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (the GHG Protocol)
We used the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) as the source of Global Warming Potential 
values .
* Reviewed by Deloitte and Touche LLP, as detailed in the Independent Accountants’ Review Report 
on Page 57  .
305-2Energy indirect greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 
2)*2018 Environmental Performance Results (page 38)
Please refer to 305-1 for the list of gases included in  Scope 2 calculation, and our calculation 
methodology  . Our scope 2 emissions include district chilled water and all electricity consumed at our 
hotels .
* Reviewed by Deloitte and Touche LLP, as detailed in the Independent Accountants’ Review Report 
on Page 57  .
305-2
Other indirect greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 
3) Leadership in Sustainability (page 42)
In 2018, Scope 3 emissions from business travel were not reported.
305-4Greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions intensity*In 2018, GHG emissions intensity per square foot was 0  .008934 metric tons of CO2e  .
GHG emissions included in this calculation include Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reported under 
GRI 305-1 and 305-2 .
* Reviewed by Deloitte and Touche LLP, as detailed in the Independent Accountants’ Review Report 
on Page 57  .PAGE 
55Material Topics GRI Disclosure Location and/or Direct Answer
Effluents and 
Waste 103 Management approach Leadership in Sustainability (pages 37-39)
306-2Waste by type and disposal 
method2018 Environmental Performance Results (page 38)
Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 103 Management approachSupplier Code of Conduct (page 2)
Responsible Supplier Program (pages 42-44)
308-1New suppliers that 
were screened using 
environmental criteria Responsible Supplier Program (page 42)
SOCIAL
Employment 103 Management approach Engagement Program Highlights (pages 15-16)
401-1New hires and employee 
turnoverIn 2018, we made 3,388 hires and our turnover rate was 54% . (Please note that these figures exclude 
our acquisition of La Quinta .)
Training and 
Education 103 Management approach Engagement Program Highlights (pages 15-16)
404-2Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programsEngagement Program Highlights (pages 15-16)
Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity 103 Management approach A Culture of Diversity and Inclusion (pages 20-29)
405-1Diversity of governance 
bodies and employees A Culture of Diversity and Inclusion (pages 20, 23 and 26)
Our Board currently consists of eight members, two of whom are women .PAGE 
56Material Topics GRI Disclosure Location and/or Direct Answer
Human Rights 
Assessment 103 Management approach• Human Rights Statement
• Modern Slavery Statement
• Supplier Code of Conduct
Protecting Human Rights (pages 30-31)
412-2Employee training on human 
rights policies or proceduresModern Slavery Statement (page 2)
 
Local Communities 103 Management approach Supporting our Communities (pages 32-36)
413-1Operations with local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments, and 
development programsLocal community engagement programs were in place across our all major countries of operations 
during the reporting period . 
Supplier Social 
Assessment 103 Management approach Responsible Supplier Program (pages 42 and 44)
414-1New suppliers that were 
screened using labor 
practices criteria Supplier Code of Conduct 
Responsible Supplier Program (pages 42 and 44)
Customer Privacy 103 Management approachProtecting and respecting the privacy of our guests, Wyndham Rewards® Members, team members 
and others is a priority and imperative for our company  .
To support our privacy policy, we train corporate and property-based team members and actively 
monitor a series of key performance indicators including the number of privacy requests, incidents 
and hotline inquiries per quarter  . We promote awareness through a variety of activities, ranging from 
formal training courses to informal sessions such as our annual Global Data Privacy Day events .
Additional information on our policies and practices can be found in our Privacy Notice  .
418-1Substantiated complaints 
regarding breaches of 
customer privacy and losses 
of customer data None during the reporting period . 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS’ REVIEW REPORT  
 
To the Board of Directors  
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts , Inc.  
Parsippany , New Jersey  
 
We have reviewed the following  indicators presented in the Social Responsibility Report  (the “ specified 
indicators ”) of Wyndham Hotels & Resorts Incorporated (the “Company”) for the year ended December 31, 201 8:  
 
• GRI Disclosure 302 -1: Energy consumption within the organization  
• GRI Disclosure 302 -3: Energy Intensity  
• GRI Disclosure 303 -1: Water withdrawal  by source  
• GRI Disclosure 305 -1: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1)  
• GRI Disclosure 305 -2: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)  
• GRI Disclosure 305 -4: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity  
 
The Company’s management is responsible for preparing and presenting the above specified indicators in 
accordance with Disclosures 302 -1 and 302-3 from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting 
Standards 302 : Energy 2016, Disclosure 303 -1 from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 303 : Water  2016 , 
Disclosures 305 -1, 305 -2, and 305 -4 from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 305: Emissions 2016 . Our 
responsibility is to express a conclusion on the specified indicators based on our review . 
 
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants  (AICPA) in AT -C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements,  
and AT -C Section 210, Review Engagements.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the review to 
obtain limited assuranc e about whether any material modifications should be made to the specified indicators in 
order for them to be presented in accordance with the criteria.  A review is substantially less in scope than an 
examination, the objective of which is to obtain reason able assurance about whether  the specified indicators are 
presented in accordance with the criteria, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we 
do not express such an opinion. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion.  
 
In performing our review, we have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of 
Professional Conduct issued by the AICPA. We applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards established 
by the AICPA and, accordingly, maintain a comprehensive system of quality control.   
 
The preparation of the specified indicators within the Social Responsibility Report  requires management to 
interpret the criteria, make determinations as to the relevancy of info rmation to be included, and make estimates 
and assumptions that affect the reported information. Measurement of certain amounts , some of which may be 
referred to as estimates, is subject to substantial inherent measurement uncertaint y resulting for example  from 
units of measure conversion factors or estimation assumptions used by management. Obtaining sufficient, 
appropriate review evidence to support our conclusion does not reduce the inherent uncertainty in the amounts 
and metrics. The selection by manage ment of different but acceptable measurement methods, input data, or 
assumptions, may have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.  
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the specified 
indicators referred to above for the year ended December 31, 201 8, in order for the specified indicators  to be 
presented in accordance with  Disclosures 302 -1 and 302-3 from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Sustainability Reporting Standards 302: Energy 2016, Disclosure 303 -1 from the GRI Sustainability Reporting 
Standards 303 : Water  2016 , Disclosures 305 -1, 305 -2, and 305 -4 from the GRI Sustainability Reporting 
Standards 305: Emissions 2016 .  
 
 
 
July 29, 201 9 
Deloitte & Touche LLP  
695 E. Main  St 
Stamford, CT 06901 -2141  
USA 
 
Tel:   +1 203 708 4000  
Fax:  +1  203 705 5455  
www.deloitte.com  
