2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT1 OF 72 
SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Wyndham Grand® Clearwater Beach
Clearwater Beach, FL2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT2 OF 72 
A Message from Our President and CEO   . . . . . . . . 3
2019 Highlights   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Values in Action   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Company Overview   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Perspectives from our Leadership   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Our Social Responsibility Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Advancing the UN  
Sustainable Development Goals   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2025 Performance Targets   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Materiality   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Governance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Board of Directors   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Environmental, Social and Governance Oversight   .11
Social Responsibility Council   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Stakeholder Engagement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Team Member Engagement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Franchisee Engagement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Guest Engagement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Global Partner   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Supplier Engagement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Diversity and Inclusion   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
A Value Chain Approach   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Team Members   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23Suppliers   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Empowering Diverse Guests and Communities   .29
Environmental Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Wyndham Green Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Our Focus Areas Moving Forward   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Energy and Emissions  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 36
Water   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Waste   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Protecting Human Rights   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
The 5-Star Promise   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
ECPAT-USA and the Code   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Human Rights Statement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Modern Slavery Statement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Training   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Supporting Our Communities   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Giving and Volunteering   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Brand Partnerships   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
BeWell   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51 
Performance Tables   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
GRI Content Index   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Assurance Statement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wyndham Garden® Lake Buena Vista
Lake Buena Vista, FL2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT3 OF 72 
As we look back on the last year, we can’t help but reflect on how much our world has 
changed . The start of a new decade brought with it an unprecedented global crisis, raising 
countless new questions and unforeseen complexities . Our responsibility as a company, now 
more than ever, is to help ensure the future remains bright for travelers around the world .  
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is committed to operating our business in a way that is socially, 
ethically and environmentally responsible  . As the world’s largest hotel franchising company, 
we have a unique opportunity to make a meaningful impact on the world while advancing 
our mission to make hotel travel possible for all .  
We’ve always believed in thinking globally while acting locally, and it’s never been more 
evident than in the face of new challenges . We’re inspired every day by our team members 
and franchisees who are stepping up to support their communities and to provide our 
signature Count on Me service for guests – all while navigating through challenges of their 
own . We’re also inspired by so many of our guests who serve as “everyday heroes” on the 
front lines of the crisis, and we’re honoring them through our Wyndham Rewards program 
to thank them for their dedication and service and to help make their future trips as 
exceptional as they deserve to be  .
We respect differences in people, ideas and experiences . Our core values, grounded in 
caring, respect, inclusiveness and fundamental human rights, infuse different perspectives 
that reflect our diverse customers, team members, and communities around the world .  
While we have been recognized for the progress we have made on our Diversity and 
Inclusion journey, we know we can do more  . We are taking action to increase senior 
leadership engagement by adding a Diversity and Inclusion goal to the performance 
reviews of all of our senior team leaders; bolster our efforts to recruit, retain and promote 
diverse talent; expand our supplier diversity program; and continue our robust Diversity and 
Inclusion training programs – all to inspire our people to contribute to meaningful change in 
our company, our industry, our communities, and the world .
 
Travel is one of the world’s most universal experiences, and 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts remains committed to operating our 
business in a way that empowers and unites us through travel .  
And when people travel, wherever they go, Wyndham will be 
there to welcome them .Geoff Ballotti
PRESIDENT AND 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
WYNDHAM HOTELS & RESORTSA Message from Our President and CEO2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT4 OF 72 
2019 Highlights
With a commitment to acting with 
integrity and a mission to making hotel 
travel possible for all, Wyndham Hotels & 
Resorts has been recognized as one of the  
2020 World’s Most Ethical Companies by 
the Ethisphere Institute  . This distinction 
marks the second time the Company has 
been named to the list by Ethisphere, 
a leader in defining and advancing the 
standards of ethical business practices .  
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is one 
of only two companies recognized 
in the lodging and hospitality 
segment for 2020  . Maintaining 
a strong focus on ethical 
practices is part of Wyndham 
Hotels & Resorts’s robust social 
responsibility commitment .• Supported pledge for CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ and equal 
representation of men and women in leadership positions
• Achieved 100% gender pay equity at executive level globally
• Advanced participation in Wyndham’s six affinity business groups
• Received perfect score on HRC Corporate Equality Index to support 
LGBTQ employees
• Recorded responsible supplier spend was 25% and diverse supplier spend 
was 12 .6%World’s Most Ethical 
CompaniesDIVERSITY & INCLUSION
• Launched Wyndham Green Certification Program to support franchisees
• Maintained LEED® Gold certification at corporate headquarters
• Partnered with franchisees to phase out single-use plastics
• Piloted cloud-based energy management systems to reduce operating 
costs and environmental impactsENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
• Strengthened policies and training to support hotel workers through the 
5-Star Promise
• Mandated training for all team members to identify and report human 
trafficking activities
• Partnered with BEST in efforts to end the sexual exploitation of childrenHUMAN RIGHTS
• Associates volunteered over 2,300 hours for Wish Days
• Earned more than 100 million impressions through drowsy driving awareness 
campaign
• Partnered with the National Parks Conservation Association to protect and 
clean-up national parks
• Supported more than 50 local, regional and national charities through our 
Wyndham Championship eventCOMMUNITIES2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT5 OF 72 
Values in Action
Company Overview 
Approximately 
9,300 affiliated 
hotelsApproximately  90 
countriesOver  83 million 
enrolled Wyndham 
Rewards membersApproximately  
828,000  rooms20 iconic brands
For more information, visit www  .wyndhamhotels . com .As the world’s largest hotel franchising company, we have a 
unique opportunity to make a meaningful impact on the world 
while advancing our mission to make hotel travel possible for all .  2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT6 OF 72 
Perspectives from our Leadership 
Michelle Allen
CHIEF FINANCIAL  
OFFICERLisa Checchio
CHIEF MARKETING
OFFICERMary Falvey
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE 
OFFICERAt Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, we 
believe you can do well by doing 
good . Operating our business in a 
way that is socially, ethically and 
environmentally responsible is 
not only the right thing to do - it 
makes business sense  .
Our strategic goals, grounded 
in our core values, are designed 
to drive growth for our brands, 
contribution for our owners and 
returns for our shareholders . As 
we strive to meet those goals, we 
are guided by the responsibility 
we have to our communities and 
the travelers we serve  .The strength of our business is 
a reflection of our core values 
- integrity, accountability, 
inclusiveness, caring and fun - and 
we encourage our owners, team 
members and partners to uphold 
those values in all that we do  .
Through our signature Count 
on Me service culture, our team 
members consistently go above 
and beyond what’s expected 
of them to provide exceptional 
experiences to those we serve  .  
Collectively, when we focus on 
making the world around us better, 
it’s really another way of doing 
what we do best: hospitality  . Every day we work to incorporate 
diversity and inclusion, 
environmental sustainability, 
ethical behavior, human rights 
and community support into our 
business .
Whether it’s learning opportunities 
through Wyndham University, 
empowering action through 
our Affinity Business Groups, 
community engagement with our 
Wish Days or finding new ways 
to go green, we’re proactively 
building a culture that embraces 
our power to make change in the 
world and celebrates the diversity 
of our people  .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT7 OF 72 
Our Social Responsibility Program
Every day we work to empower new experiences for travelers in a way that positively impacts the world around us . That’s why we’re committed 
to our social responsibility efforts, focused on four key themes:
Travel empowers people to 
experience the incredibly 
diverse world we live in .  
Diversity is key to our business, 
and we strive to maintain a 
culture of inclusion for our team 
members, partners and guests .  A Culture of
Diversity & Inclusion
We welcome different 
perspectives in our 
inclusive and fun 
workplaces and hotels
Helping to try to stop to human 
trafficking is a major priority for 
our entire industry  . We continue 
to develop resources and 
educate our hotel owners, team 
members and stakeholders 
in an effort to combat human 
trafficking .Supporting  
Our Communities
We care for the 
communities in which 
we work and live
Through numerous initiatives, 
we take steps every day to 
minimize the impact of our 
operations, working to reduce 
our environmental footprint 
and preserve natural resources .  Leadership in 
Sustainability
We are accountable for 
our part in protecting 
the environment
Through our Count on Me 
culture, we empower our team 
members, hotel owners and 
Wyndham Rewards members 
to make a difference, and we’re 
incredibly proud of how they 
have stepped up to donate 
thousands of volunteer hours, 
loyalty points, rooms and more 
to their communities over the 
last year  .Protecting  
 Human Rights
We are committed to 
the safety and  
well-being of our team 
members and guests
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT8 OF 72 
Advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has always believed that you can do well by doing good . That’s why we have worked to integrate diversity 
and inclusion, environmental sustainability, human rights and community support initiatives into the fabric of our business .
We are committed to operating sustainably in a way that provides outstanding experiences for those we serve through places to stay 
that are socially, ethically and environmentally responsible  . With a footprint spanning hundreds of communities around the world, we 
engage team members, owners and operators to uphold and leverage our core values to think globally and execute locally  . The UN 
Sustainable Development Goals serve as a strategic guide for our Social Responsibility Program, which helps advance our company’s 
mission of making hotel travel possible for all .
In order to deliver on our mission, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts relies on the UN’s SDGs and our core values of integrity, accountability, 
inclusivity, caring and fun to shape our strategy  .Targeted Strategies and Actions SDGs
• Promote and protect our Team Members’ 
health with our Be Well  Program
• Raise awareness in our community  about 
good health and healthy lifestyles
• Encourage health and wellness for our 
guests with our Stay Well  guest rooms
• Provide leadership opportunities  among 
our female team members
• Support initiatives to empower women and 
girls through our community  programs
• Develop women-owned businesses  through 
our Diverse Suppliers Program 
• Promote and expand best practices for biodiversity 
protection across our properties
• Partner with suppliers  to make a meaningful impact to 
protect forests and biodiversity
• Share best practices around waste diversion in order to 
reduce waste sent to landfills  through our Wyndham 
Green Program• Embark on a multi-decade journey to reduce our 
greenhouse gas emissions  in alignment with what is 
required to limit the rise in global temperatures 
• Provide our managed and franchised hotels  with 
tools and best practices through our Wyndham Green 
program to reduce our environmental impact• Provide local hiring  opportunities in travel and tourism 
as we continue to expand around the globe
• Be at the forefront of industry initiatives to address 
human trafficking  and human rights  issues
• Provide learning and development opportunities 
through Wyndham University
• Promote best practices around water 
conservation at our hotels  through our 
Wyndham Green program
• Support the access to sanitation to all 
through our community partnerships
• Reduce single use plastics  to keep our 
waterways and oceans pollution-free and 
safe for wildlife
Targeted Strategies and Actions SDGs2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT9 OF 72 
2025 Performance Targets
To support the UN Sustainable Development Goals and empower a compelling vision for sustainable tourism, we have set Wyndham’s 
first-generation performance targets as a newly independent company  . We will continue to evolve our targets and report on our progress 
as we advance on our social responsibility journey  .
* From 2019 base year
** Based on our commitment to provide our owned, managed and franchised hotels exclusively with suppliers of cage-free eggs, in order to source 100% of our eggs (shell, liquid and egg 
products) from cage-free sources globally
*** Target is for eligible corporate team members in United States and CanadaFOCUS AREAS 2025 PERFORMANCE TARGETS STATUS
Environment 15% absolute emissions reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions * On Track
15% reduction in water consumption per square foot * Beginning of Journey
100%  renewable energy at owned properties, corporate headquarters and North 
American officesOn Track
100%  elimination of single use plastics Beginning of Journey
100%  of managed properties are Wyndham Green Certified Beginning of Journey
100%  sourcing of cage-free eggs ** Beginning of Journey
Diversity & Inclusion 100%  gender pay equity globally On Track 
100%  of corporate and hotel team members receiving unconscious bias training On Track
Human Rights 100%  of corporate and hotel team members  receiving human rights training Ahead of Schedule
Community Impact 100%  Wish Day participation*** On Track2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT10 OF 72 
Materiality
Our social responsibility strategy and reporting is informed by the Global Reporting Initiative’s materiality principles and approach . 
We have mapped environmental, social and governance topics with consideration to the greatest impacts on our business and our 
stakeholders . We have also aligned with industry priorities as defined by the American Hotel & Lodging Association, Global Sustainable 
Tourism Council, International Tourism Partnership, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and World Travel & Tourism Council .
Environmental, Social and Governance Topics Matrix
Relevance to our Business Model ( Current and Pot ential Impacts )Importanc e to Stak eholders     
MEDIUM HIGH VERY HIGH
MEDIUM HIGH VERY HIGH• Plastic Waste
 (Land and Oc eans )
• Cultur al Heritage Pr otection
• Water Quality
• Animal W elfare
• Biodiv ersity
• Food Wa ste• Clima te Risk &
 Opportunity Management
• Community Engagement
• Local Ec onomic De velopment
• Oper ational Waste
• Water Consumption 
• Advocacy and Responsible
 Lobbying
• Corpor ate Governanc e
• Supply Chain Responsibility
• Defor estation
• Ethical Mark eting & 
Communications
• Taxes and Contributions to
Communities• Ethics & Complianc e
• Diversity & Inclusion 
• Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
• Guest Health, Safety &
 Security
• Human Rights
• Worker Health & Safety
•Data Priv acy & Security
• Employee Engagement
• Employee W ages & Benefits
• Customer Relationship
 Management
• Franchisee Engagement
• Team Member Tr aining and
 Development2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT11 OF 72 
Governance
Board of Directors
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts’ Board of Directors is comprised of eight members, six of whom are independent directors, as defined by the 
rules of the New York Stock Exchange  . Our independent directors bring experience, oversight and expertise from outside the Company 
and our industry, with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer providing company-specific experience and expertise  . The Board of 
Directors reflects our inclusive philosophy and is comprised of six men and two women in addition to Caribbean and Asian American 
representation . 
Environmental, Social and Governance Oversight
The Board of Directors, through the Corporate Governance Committee, oversees and is updated on the performance and compliance of 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts’ Social Responsibility programs .  The Chair on the Corporate Governance committee provides input into the 
strategy and direction of our Social Responsibility program .  Our Chief HR Services Officer provides updates to the entire Board and the 
Corporate Governance committee  . Within our Board’s Corporate Governance committee, areas of focus include our annual social and 
environmental performance goals, team member development and compliance  .
Social Responsibility Council
Our Social Responsibility Council (SRC) is chaired by our President . The SRC meets quarterly to provide oversight and direction for the 
global Social Responsibility program . Subject matter experts will be invited to discuss pressing global social responsibility related topics, 
including human rights, health and safety, climate change, water and diversity, with the intent of receiving input and guidance on the 
organizational impacts . In addition, the SRC is designed to:
• Reinforce and promote an organizational culture that encourages active participation in Social Responsibility  .
• Review emerging environmental and social risks and opportunities .
• Ensure we are on track with our strategic goals related to Social Responsibility key performance indicators .
• Drive engagement, build awareness and celebrate the successes of our Social Responsibility Programs .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT12 OF 72 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts’ stakeholder engagement approach is designed to be inclusive, strategic and results-oriented to respond to 
key topics of greatest concern and opportunity  .
Throughout the year, we actively engage with our team members, shareholders, suppliers, communities, franchisees and guests . 
Additionally, we actively participate in leading industry associations and academic and research institutions dedicated to solving global 
environmental, social and economic challenges .
FRANCHISEES
• Operational Training and 
Awareness Workshops
• Educational Opportunities
• Wyndham Green Program
• Count on Me Service Culture
• Global Conference  
SUPPLIERS
• Global Conference
• Wyndham Green Program
• Diversity Programs  
TEAM MEMBERS
• Count on Me Service Culture
• Compliance and Privacy 
Champions
• Performance Reviews
• Surveys and Town Hall Meetings
• Affinity Business Groups
• Mentoring and Training Programs
• Recognition Programs
• Wyndham Welcome
• Be Well Program
• Wyndham Green ProgramGLOBAL PARTNERS
• American Hotel & Lodging 
Association
• Asian American Hotel Owners 
Association
• International Tourism Partnership
• U .S . Travel Association
COMMUNITY
• Wish Days (Volunteerism)
• Wyndham Championship
• Wyndham Rewards
• Wyndham Green Program
GUESTS
• Wyndham Rewards Program
• Guest Satisfaction Survey
• Customer Care
• Wyndham Welcome
• Stay Well Program
• Wyndham Green Program
SHAREHOLDERS
• Investor Relations
• Shareholder Services
• 10-K, Proxy and SEC FilingsGlobal
PartnersShareholdersSuppliers
Community
Team 
MembersGuestsEngagementFranchisees2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT13 OF 72 
Engagement and Program Highlights 
Team Member Engagement
COUNT ON ME
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts’ signature Count on Me service promise defines how we interact with our 
guests, partners, communities and each other  .
Through Count on Me, we aspire to:
• Be Responsive:  we respond to the needs of everyone with care and consideration .
• Be Respectful:  we are courteous and engaged with all people, in every way  .
• Deliver Great Experiences : we are prepared to deliver great experiences, every time  .
As a leader in hospitality, we recognize the critical role that service plays for our Company  . Our Count on Me service promise aligns with 
our core values – integrity, accountability, inclusiveness, caring and fun – and is embedded and celebrated at all levels of our organization .
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT14 OF 72 
Career Development
Our team members development is key to our long-term success and a top priority of the Company  . We actively seek to identify and 
develop talent throughout the company and provide a variety of learning experiences and flexible delivery methods for a diverse learning 
audience  . This includes on-the-job practice, coaching and counseling, effective performance appraisals and honest and timely feedback 
as well as formal programs such as:  
Leading 4 Success
Development at this level focuses on 
two integral areas – Managing: the 
day-to-day operational functions, 
and Leading: the inspirational and 
motivational skills required to lead a 
team . Coursework covers topics such as 
empowering teams, giving and receiving 
feedback, embracing an inclusive 
culture, motivating and recognizing 
others, coaching and mentoring .  
Thayer Leader Development GroupThayer Leader Development Group
Also known as “Leadership Experience at 
West Point,” enables growth for executive-
level leadership in the areas of increasing 
innovation, leading internal organizational 
growth, improving overall leadership quality 
and increasing employee commitment and 
retention .  Castell Leadership Program
Is dedicated to accelerating the 
careers of women professionals in the 
hospitality industry  . Castell delivers 
impactful development opportunities 
for talented women professionals 
who have demonstrated strong 
leadership potential . These programs 
include a workshop with professional 
trainers specialized in developing 
women executives, ongoing training 
and networking opportunities and 
performance metrics tracked by 
Georgia State University, an academic 
partner to Castell Project .  
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT15 OF 72 
Spotlight: Global Conference
Our 2019 Wyndham Global Conference was our largest conference ever with almost 7,000 attendees consisting of franchisees, sponsors, 
vendors and team members from around the globe  .  Attendees came to network, attend our largest Trade Show ever with 175 supplier 
partners and learn about Company initiatives to elevate our brands, deliver resources to our owners, grow our market presence and meet 
the needs of today’s travelers . Our franchisees attended more than 100 learning opportunities including educational sessions, learning 
bursts, tech talks and supplier showcases led by Wyndham University and industry experts alike  .  
CONFERENCE HIGHLIGHTS
20 brands represented Over 33,000  connections 
were made at the Trade ShowOver 100  educational sessions 52%  of attendees downloaded 
our mobile app
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT16 OF 72 
Wyndham University 
At Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, we’re committed to helping people realize the possibilities that exist over every horizon through 
Wyndham University’s online, virtual and in-person learning opportunities . We provide a variety of learning experiences that develop the 
knowledge, skills and abilities of our team members and franchisees via quality content and flexible delivery methods . Our trainings serve 
a diverse learning audience, which extends to our hotel owners and their teams as well as our own team members . In 2019, Wyndham 
University celebrated the global launch of its online platform to all regions and experienced strong engagement .
AMERICAS (AMER)
12,883  
ASIA PACIFIC AND CHINA (APAC)
 19,602
EUROPE MIDDLE EAST AND ASIA (EMEA)
8,744
In Wyndham University’s online platform, our learners will find curated learning experiences specific to their professional development 
needs . They can also:
• Explore fresh content through interactive learning webinars, courses, videos and job aids; 
• Access mentorship materials, networking opportunities and industry certifications; and
• Gain knowledge on specialized topics across various roles and leadership levels to support professional 
development goals .
Our online learning platform experienced tremendous success with high enrollment across both the managed, corporate and franchisee 
population . INDIVIDUALS ENROLLED IN WYNDHAM UNIVERSITY BY REGION:2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT17 OF 72 
With over 150 years of combined hospitality 
experience, our training team delivers impactful, 
customized training onsite at hotels to help 
franchisees achieve their operational and financial 
goals . They work to identify specific challenges 
or areas of opportunity and create an engaging 
learning experience  .  
Hospitality Management Program (HMP)
Additionally, Wyndham University supports conferences and 
events, including the Hospitality Management Program (HMP) 
for General Manager Certification . Our information-packed HMP 
features personalized content based on experience level, market 
segment and hotel brand, hands-on simulations, two trade shows 
and networking opportunities with fellow hoteliers and brand 
leaders .  Franchisees are able to network with fellow participants 
while attending this training program, which lends itself to the 
mutual exchange of ideas, knowledge sharing and best practices . 
During 2019, 986 hospitality leaders participated in the highly 
coveted HMP across all brands .  
TOTAL C OMPLETIONS 
229,707Completions – 229 ,707WH&R
Team Members 10,056  # OF ENROLLED P ARTICIP ANTS
IN W YNDHAM UNIVERSITY 
Franchisees 31, 173Franchisee Engagement2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT18 OF 72 
Guest Engagement
WYNDHAM REWARDS®
Named the number one hotel rewards program by readers of USA TODAY, 
Wyndham Rewards® is the world’s most generous rewards program 
with more than 30,000 hotels, vacation club resorts and vacation 
rentals worldwide  . Designed for the everyday traveler, members earn a 
guaranteed 1,000 points with every qualified stay and may redeem points 
for a wide-range of rewards, including free nights at any of approximately 
9,300 hotels or tens of thousands of vacation club resorts and vacation 
rentals globally through our relationship with Wyndham Destinations 
and others . Wyndham Rewards has approximately 83 million enrolled 
members around the globe  .
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT19 OF 72 
STAY WELL PROGRAM
In partnership with Stay Well by Delos, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is turning hotel stays into a simply comfortable experience with a 
focus on health and well-being . Delos’ Stay Well program is the product of collaboration between doctors, scientists, architects, designers 
and thought leaders, including Dr  . Deepak Chopra, to identify, develop and integrate wellness features into the guest room . Our Stay Well 
guest rooms offer enhanced features and thoughtful amenities – from air purification to dawn simulation – that help guests rest easy and 
wake up refreshed .
The Stay Well program utilizes scientific research along with engineering and technological advancements to create a healthier guest 
room experience  . 
Air Purification  – circulation of filtered air in 
guest rooms to reduce pollen, odors, allergens, 
toxins and other pollutants from the airAvailable at select Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, our Stay Well 
rooms feature:
Stay Well Mattress and Encasement  – a foam 
mattress made from organic cotton, pure hevea 
milk and essential oils, and accompanying 
encasement
Dawn Simulation  – an alarm clock simulating 
a sunrise allows for a more natural waking 
process by using gradually increasing light
Aromatherapy  – uses relaxing scents to help 
improve ambiance and mood while promoting 
relaxation2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT20 OF 72 
AMERICAN HOTEL & LODGING ASSOCIATION
We continue to partner with the American Hotel & Lodging Association (AHLA) 
to advance environmental and social programs, including the 5-Star Promise, 
aimed at enhancing hotel safety for team members and guests . Geoff Ballotti, our 
President and CEO, currently serves as the Immediate Past Chair of the AHLA .
ASIAN AMERICAN HOTEL OWNERS ASSOCIATION
The Asian American Hotel Owners Association (AAHOA) is a trade association 
that provides service and support for hoteliers through its educational offerings, 
political advocacy, professional development, and community engagement . 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts was a founding member and currently participates in 
AAHOA events and activities .
INTERNATIONAL TOURISM PARTNERSHIP
In collaboration with the International Tourism Partnership (ITP), Wyndham has 
worked to define the material topics for the travel and tourism industry  . Key issues 
include further developing science-based industry targets for carbon emissions 
and water risk, identifying and assessing specific human and labor issues for the 
industry and establishing industry best practices and targets to protect human 
rights, ensure ethical labor standards and support youth career interest in the 
travel and tourism industry  .
U.S. TRAVEL ASSOCIATION
The U  .S . Travel Association (USTA) is the national, non-profit organization 
representing all components of the travel industry  . USTA advocates for policies 
to advance and elevate the industry on a national level, connecting association 
members with the tools, research and resources needed to influence change at 
federal, state and local levels . As a member, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts continues 
to partner with USTA on important industry initiatives .Global Partners 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts actively engages with leading industry organizations to address pressing environmental and social 
challenges facing the travel and tourism industry  . Our leadership participates in strategic planning discussions as board and committee 
members, active participants and supporters .
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT21 OF 72 
Supplier Engagement
RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER PROGRAM  
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has a vast supplier network to provide goods and services to 
properties around the globe  . The Strategic Sourcing department leverages the Company’s 
combined global purchasing power to negotiate the highest quality products and services at the 
best possible value  . The primary sourcing categories include operating supplies, furniture and 
fixtures, food and beverage, technology, banking and other ancillary services .
The Strategic Sourcing team also works with the Social Responsibility team to ensure a wide 
range of product and service options align with our strong commitment to environmental, social 
and governance issues globally  . In order to do business with Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, we 
demand the highest level of ethical behavior  . In all instances, we expect adherence to our Core 
Values in addition to compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct and all applicable laws and 
regulations in all locations where a supplier conducts business . We continue to evaluate our 
suppliers though our Responsible Supplier Survey, which not only focuses on sustainable products 
but also includes questions on suppliers’ philanthropic initiatives and human rights protections . 
We recognize each supplier as “Responsible” based on the resulting score from the survey criteria . 
Our Responsible Supplier 
Survey is comprised of 50 
questions and follows our four 
pillars of social responsibility  . It 
includes questions on policies, 
data and targets around :
• Community
• Diversity & Inclusion
• Human Rights
• Sustainability  In 2019, Wyndham Hotels 
& Resorts had greater than 
25% of procurable spend 
with suppliers that meet the 
Responsible Supplier criteria . We are committing to provide our 
owned, managed and independently 
owned franchised hotels exclusively 
with suppliers of cage-free eggs, in 
order to source 100% of our eggs 
(shell, liquid and egg products) from 
cage-free sources globally by 2025 . 
We commit to publicly reporting on 
progress annually and to translating 
the policy into key native languages .The program is designed to encourage innovation for competitive differentiation, cost and 
associated risk reduction within our supply chain, and brand enhancement and to foster 
collaboration and engagement with our suppliers, franchisees and other stakeholders . 
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT22 OF 72 
Diversity and Inclusion 
A Value Chain Approach
Wyndham’s commitment to Diversity & Inclusion is central to our business . Throughout our value chain, from team members, franchisees, 
partners and suppliers to the community and our guests, we believe that a diversity of backgrounds, cultures and experiences helps drive 
our company’s success .
Diversity is not just about doing the right thing - it’s a business, financial and customer responsibility  . Travel enables people of varied 
nationalities and backgrounds to connect and learn from different cultures . In the same way, we can raise our collective understanding 
and appreciation for one another at work .  
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts fosters a workplace where all individuals are treated with respect and can achieve both personal and 
professional success . Diversity in perspective, talent and background have helped to make us one of the leading hospitality companies 
and a remarkable place to work .
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT23 OF 72 
CEO Pledge
In 2018, our CEO signed on to The CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ - the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance 
diversity and inclusion within the workplace  . This is a unique collaboration of more than 450 U  .S . CEOs and academic presidents, 
representing nearly 12 million employees, who signed a pledge to take action to cultivate environments where diverse experiences and 
perspectives are welcomed and where employees feel comfortable and encouraged to discuss diversity and inclusion . 
Our Progress to the CEO Pledge
• Cultivated a workplace that supports open dialogue on complex, and sometimes difficult, conversations about diversity and 
inclusion by adding these topics to our Count on Me program and leadership development .
• Shared and collaborated across enterprises in order to advance Diversity and Inclusion within the business community with the 
continued promotion and development of our Affinity Business Groups .
• Implemented unconscious bias training in our workplace  .
LEADERSHIP
BANDMID-LEVEL
BANDPROFESSIONAL
BAND
28% 51% 63%63%  of US workforce represents minority 
groups including:
Hispanic or Latino    34.96%
Black or African American   20.16%
Asian   4.51%
Two or more races   2.91%
American Indian or Alaska Native   0.75%
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Island   0.57%Team Members 
2019 Workforce Highlights
We have achieved 100% gender pay equity comparing the median compensation of females versus males at the executive level, 
measured on an unadjusted basis, for 2019  . For all employees below the executive management level globally, we have achieved 95% 
gender pay equity, comparing the median compensation of females versus males, measured on an unadjusted basis, for 2019  . 
Women in Leadership Minority Representation2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT24 OF 72 
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROUPS
Affinity Business Groups serve as fully inclusive networks where empowered team members actively engage to foster innovation, 
help Wyndham Hotels & Resorts grow, and enhance Diversity & Inclusion globally  . We continue to strive to increase membership and 
engagement domestically and internationally while being in alignment with our business initiatives . In addition to the Parsippany 
headquarters campus, we also have Affinity Business Groups in Saint John, Canada and Orlando, Florida .
A unifying network that 
represents and promotes the 
richness of the Hispanic/Latinx 
culture at Wyndham Hotels & 
Resorts and the professional 
development of their team 
members .A multigenerational network 
aimed to broaden perspectives 
and develop understanding 
about the values and 
expectations of each generation .Leveraging the passion of our 
team members, we strive to 
foster a culture of acceptance 
and equality within the LGBTQ 
community and to raise 
awareness of LGBTQ issues 
through education .
An association of military and 
civilians where appreciation 
and commitment to fostering 
opportunities and experiences 
to help honor and advance 
those who served and their 
families .A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESORT S
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROU PA WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESORT S
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROU PNEXT
A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESORT S
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROU P
A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESORT S
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROU PSALUTES
Leveraging and developing 
the SPECTRUM of African 
Americans/Blacks as internal 
and external resources 
through leadership, education, 
innovation and networking .Bringing together team 
members to support women 
in their development and 
advancement while creating 
a culture of camaraderie and 
teamwork .A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESORT S
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROU PSPECTRUMA WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESORT S
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROU PWOMEN ON THEIR WA Y2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT25 OF 72 
Wyndham Hotel & Resorts signed the Hispanic Promise in 2019 showcasing our 
commitment to create a more inclusive environment for Hispanic people  . The Hispanic 
Promise is the first-of-its-kind national pledge to hire, promote, retain and celebrate 
Hispanics in the workplace  . 
Our Affinity Business Group SPECTRUM partnered with the Movember Foundation 
to support and help raise awareness for Men’s Health Month . As a part of Movember, 
SPECTRUM organized a clothing drive to support the Market Street Mission in Morristown, 
NJ in their first ever men’s Suits for Success drive for their Life Change Recovery Program 
graduation . Thanks to the combined efforts of the Wyndham Hotels & Resorts Community 
we helped raise over $2,400 and collected over 100 suits supporting Movember to raise 
awareness and funds for men’s health .A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESORT S
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROU P
A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESORT S
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROU PSPECTRUM
In honor of Veterans Day, our Salutes Affinity Business Group held a flag 
ceremony on the Parsippany Campus featuring members of the Hope For The 
Warriors organization, who discussed their close partnership with our Super 
8 by Wyndham brand as well as the many ways we are working together to 
support service members, veterans and military families . Representatives from 
Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve honored our Company with the 
Above and Beyond Award for our commitment to supporting the military  . 
Additionally, our veterans in Parsippany received a surprise gift bag filled with 
La Quinta ® by Wyndham and Super 8 ® by Wyndham gear, gift cards and more 
to thank them for their service  . A WYNDHAM HO TELS & RESORT S
AFFINITY BUSINESS GROU PSALUTES
ABGs in Action2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT26 OF 72 
Five Generations Work at Wyndham
• Great Depr ession
• World W ar II
• Disciplined
• Workplac e Loyalty
• Moved to  the “Burbs”
• Vaccines• Vietnam, Moon Landing
• Civil/W omens Rights
• Experimental
• Inno vators
• Har d Working
• Personal Comput er• Fall of Berlin W all
• Gulf Wa r
• Independent
• Free Ag ents
• Internet, MTV , AIDS
• Mobile Phone• Age 20+/-
• Optimisti c
• High Expectations
• Apps
• Social Game s
• Tablet De vices• 9/11 Attacks
• Community Servic e
• Immediac y
• Confident, Di versity
• Social Ev erything
• Google, FacebookTRADITIONALISTS BOOMERS GEN X MILLENNIAL GEN Z
21% 27% 47% <1% 5%2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT27 OF 72 
Active Military, Veterans and Their Families
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is not just military friendly, we are military family friendly  .  We work to support our military families by:
1 . Hiring veterans and military spouses
2 . Providing exclusive benefits through our Wyndham Rewards loyalty program
3 . Engaging in community outreach and supporting non-profit veteran service organizations
4 . Sourcing from veteran and military spouse-owned businesses
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts’ commitment to the military continues to be recognized externally and was named:
• Military Friendly Top 10 Brand, Top 10 Gold Employer and Supplier Diversity Programs by G .I . Jobs Magazine (2020)
• “Best of the Best” Top Veteran-Friendly Company and Top Supplier Diversity Programs by U  .S . Veterans Magazine (2019)
• “Best for Vets: Employers” by Military Times (2019)
• A “Military Friendly Spouse Employer” by Military Spouse Magazine (2019)
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT28 OF 72 
Training and Mentoring Programs 
Training
We provide Diversity & Inclusion training throughout the development cycle of all team members from onboarding to executive leadership  . 
Whether self-study or instructor led, individuals or team member groups, diversity 
and inclusion training is offered both online as well as in the classroom for an 
enhanced emotional and personal experience  .
We believe that Diversity & Inclusion training should be provided as stand-
alone sessions as well as incorporated into every leadership program we offer  . 
Recruiters and hiring managers attend various Diversity & Inclusion trainings, and in 
particular, What is Unconscious Bias?, Types of Unconscious Bias, and Overcoming 
Unconscious Bias . The Leading for Success program focuses on enhancing 
interviewing skills with a specific lens of veteran and diversity best practices .
Through our performance management, mentorship and sponsorship programs 
as well as our global talent review and succession planning process, we seek 
out and nurture the best performers in our organization, with special attention 
to underrepresented groups . These individuals participate in various internal 
leadership development programs in addition to attending external programs 
based on their interests and needs .
Mentoring
It has been a long-standing practice to support development of corporate and our managed hotel team members at every stage of their career  . 
Mentoring leverages the Exposure component of Wyndham Hotels & Resorts’ development framework (Experience, Exposure, and Education) 
by providing team members the opportunity to learn from the unique combination of backgrounds, experiences, perspectives and expertise of 
an individual within the organization over a period of time  . Our Mentoring/Learning Circle program for team members provides an opportunity 
to assemble a diverse group of team members with common goals, interests and aspirations into an organically structured mentoring program 
that helps participants “own their development . ”
Overall, a mentor can provide expertise to help mentees enhance their development and learning by assisting in: developing competencies for 
their current roles, enhancing skills that can be transferable, understanding the inner workings of the organization or hotel, practicing the art of 
building relationships,  giving and receiving feedback and building their networks .
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT29 OF 72 
Suppliers
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has a highly developed supplier diversity program, including strong efforts to engage suppliers owned by veterans, 
Latinos, African-Americans, women, the LGBTQ community, people with disabilities and other traditionally underrepresented groups . By 
maintaining a diverse supply chain, we are able to build on a rich foundation of perspectives, which benefits our company and our customers’ 
experience  . Our strong tier-1 and tier-2 programs, as well as extensive training and mentoring for diverse suppliers, helps ensure supplier 
diversity is thoroughly integrated into overall business strategy  . We have an estimated 12 .6% or $150 million of total procurable spend with 
diverse suppliers .
Sobel Linen provides high-quality bedding and towels to many properties under the 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts umbrella . With a certification from the National Minority 
Supplier Development Council, Sobel Linen brings a wealth of knowledge, experience 
and perspective to the table as a certified Hispanic-owned business .
American Hotel Register Company is not only the world’s premier hospitality supplier; it is also an officially certified 
women-owned business from the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) . With extensive industry 
experience and more than 150 years of service, American Hotel offers customers over 70,000 products, 1,600 national 
brands, and an expanding portfolio of eco-friendly products and best value items from its own Registry® brand . The company also delivers 
award-winning design and project capabilities and fast delivery from distribution centers strategically located throughout the United States, 
Canada and the Caribbean . It is a privately-owned business and parent company to International Hotel Supply and serves customers in more 
than 140 countries .
Empowering Diverse Guests and Communities
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts strongly believes that our team members are a critical component of our success .  In order to continue to drive 
our financial performance and strengthen our bonds with our employees, we find it important to invest in our women, veterans and LGBTQ 
communities .
WOMEN
To encourage increased diversity among our third-party franchisees and within the hospitality industry, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has 
launched a “Women in Development Incentive Program” . The program, which is in its infancy, is intended to attract top women hotel developers 
and entrepreneurs from diverse backgrounds and involves Wyndham Hotels & Resorts qualifying franchisees to develop Wyndham-branded 
hotels . Our Affinity Business Group, Women on Their Way is partnering with external organizations to provide guidance and direction on this 
endeavor  .
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT30 OF 72 
VETERANS 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts actively participates in the The Hiring Our Heroes Corporate Fellowship 
Program which is an innovative program of the U  .S . Chamber of Commerce Foundation that providing 
transitioning service members with professional training and hands-on experience in the civilian 
workforce  . The professional development offered through the program prepares candidates for a smooth 
transition into meaningful civilian careers . Candidates then undergo exclusive on-the-job training at 
WH&R, gaining firsthand experience in the hospitality industry  . This real-world experience is augmented 
by weekly educational sessions for the cohort, held in a classroom setting .
La Quinta® by Wyndham has been a leading partner with the Hiring Our Heroes Corporate Fellowship 
Program since 2015 . Over five years in the program, La Quinta ® has hosted 20 Fellows and hired 11 
transitioning service members into General Manager and Assistant General Manager positions .
La Quinta® is honored to partner with several non-profits dedicated to supporting military personnel, 
veterans, and their families . Through our Salutes program, La Quinta® hotels have hired nearly 2,000 
veterans and military spouses and established partnerships with military non-profits like Carry the 
Load, Military Service Initiative of the George W. Bush Institute, Armed Services YMCA, Fisher House 
Foundation, Operation Homefront and more  . Additionally, through the generosity of our Wyndham 
Rewards members, one million Wyndham Rewards points have been donated to our veteran service 
organizations that are used for military families in need .
La Quinta® by Wyndham 
and Super 8® are happy 
to offer reserved parking 
for veterans at all hotels 
across the US and 
Canada .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT31 OF 72 
WH&R Saint John Operation Center
Saint John Pride Walk
In 2019, Wyndham Hotels 
& Resorts joined the HRC 
Business Coalition for the 
Equality Act, a group of 
leading U  .S . employers that 
support the Equality Act .Wyndham offers a range 
of diversity and inclusion 
resources for team members 
and senior leadership, 
including an executive Social 
Responsibility Leadership 
Council and Pride, an Affinity 
Business Group  .Wyndham Hotels & 
Resorts also partners with 
leading organizations 
including HRC, National 
Gay & Lesbian Chamber of 
Commerce and International 
Gay & Lesbian Travel 
Association  .
SHARING THE PRIDE WITH OUR LGBTQ GUESTS AND COMMUNITIES
In June 2019, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts shared Pride collateral for fifty of our managed, full service properties in the U  .S . (Wyndham Grand®, 
Dolce® and Wyndham brands®) .  This collateral was put up for the month to demonstrate our commitment to the LGBTQ community, which sent 
a powerful message of support to our guests and the communities in which we work .LGBTQ COMMUNITIES
At Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, we are committed to creating an 
inclusive work environment where all our team members can thrive  .  
WH&R was named a best place to work for LGBTQ Equality by 
earning a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate 
Equality Index (CEI), a national benchmarking survey and report on 
practices related to LGBTQ workplace equality, administrated by the 
Human Rights Campaign Foundation (HRC) . The honor also marks 
Wyndham’s second consecutive year earning a perfect score on the 
CEI, designating the company as a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ 
Equality every year since the company’s inception .
Wyndham’s commitment to supporting the LGBTQ community is 
reflected both inside and outside of the Company:
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT32 OF 72 
Environmental Sustainability
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is an asset-light organization . We own two hotels, the Wyndham Grand® Orlando Bonnet Creek Resort and the 
Wyndham Grand® Rio Mar Puerto Rico Golf & Beach Resort, while we third-party manage over 392 hotels for other ownership organizations .  
The remainder of our approximately 9300 hotels globally are operated by our franchisees . Our franchisees operate their hotels in accordance 
with our brand and system standards and their own operating policies and procedures .   
Partnerships with Franchisees, Suppliers & Guests
The partnership and bond between Wyndham Hotels & Resorts and our franchisees is what makes our hotels successful . As more travelers are 
looking for environmentally-friendly lodging options, it is critical to position our hotels optimally and provide new environmentally responsible 
options for our guests . With our 20 brands, we have a hotel for everyone’s needs . We share our core values and operating best practices around 
energy and water conservation and waste diversion so that our franchise partners can join us in doing the right thing . We also provide our hotels 
and our franchised partners with preferred vendors that can provide the items required to operate a hotel sustainably  .
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT33 OF 72 
Wyndham Green Program
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts developed the Wyndham Green Program to show how hotels can reduce operating costs through efficiency, help 
drive revenue from environmentally conscious business travelers, remain competitive in the market and increase brand loyalty  . We strive to fully 
integrate the Wyndham Green Program throughout our value chain by engaging and educating executive and brand leaders, team members, 
design and construction partners, franchisees and our suppliers . The combination of industry best practices and engagement aims to deliver 
triple bottom line results .
BRAND
SUPPOR TOPERA TIONS
DESIGN AND 
CONSTRUCTIONSOURCING &
PRODUCT S
ENGINEERING
The Wyndham Green Program consists of three integral components:
Wyndham 
Green 
ToolboxWyndham 
Green 
HousekeepingWyndham
Green 
Certification1 2 32020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT34 OF 72 
Wyndham Green Certification Program
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts launched the Wyndham Green Certification, our internal certification program compiling best practices and 
projects, at our Global Conference in September 2019  . In a relatively short time, we have reached almost 500 Wyndham Green Certified hotels 
and our goal for 2020 is to increase adoption even further  . The program consists of five progressive levels consisting of five to seven best 
practices per level that address energy and water conservation, waste diversion, operational efficiency as well as guest and team member 
education and engagement .   
The Wyndham Green Certification aligns with 
popular external certification programs such 
as TripAdvisor Green Leaders® and Green 
Key®, which provide common sense initiatives 
that parallel building certification programs 
such as LEED® and Green Globes® .  
Wyndham Green Toolbox
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts continues to utilize the Wyndham Green Toolbox, a proprietary 
online environmental management system, specifically designed to track, measure and 
report energy, emissions, water and waste diversion performance globally  .  It allows us 
to visualize and analyze our footprint at the macro and micro levels while scaling to our 
organizational requirements . Data-driven insights allow us to identify risks and challenges in 
various markets to ensure we are striving towards our performance targets .  Our properties 
can track and measure the impacts of efficiency measures that have been implemented, and 
we can monitor and benchmark the progress to reduce costs and environmental impact .  
Wyndham Green Certified hotels proudly display the respective certification badge at their 
hotel’s main entrance and website demonstrating their commitment to sustainability to guests .
Wyndham Green Housekeeping Program
In order to further engage with our guests, we set out to expand on the existing linen and towel reuse program by launching the Wyndham 
Green Housekeeping Program in November 2019, allowing Wyndham Rewards members an opportunity to further reduce the environmental 
impact of their stays . Members can earn 500 bonus points if they elect to waive housekeeping service at participating hotels during stays of 
two or more nights . The goal of the program is to conserve water and energy while forging strong guest loyalty to Wyndham Hotels & Resorts .  
It also helps to conserve natural resources while driving operational efficiencies at the hotels .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT35 OF 72 
Our Focus Areas Moving Forward
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is committed to leadership in environmental disclosure and performance  . We have set 2019 as our new baseline 
specific to Wyndham Hotels & Resorts and set climate-related targets in alignment with science-based targets for Scope 1 and 2 related 
emissions . Our carbon emission target is in alignment with the 2-degree Celsius level of ambition, based on targeted absolute reductions of 2 .5% 
annually  .  Water conservation and waste diversion goals will be re-established and re-evaluated on a routine basis to meet current and future 
environmental concerns based on bi-annual risk assessments and changes in regulations .
1 . Increase adoption and engagement of Wyndham Green Certification Program
2 . Work towards achieving our new 2025 Environmental performance targets
15% absolute emissions reduction in 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions  
15% reduction in water 
consumption per square foot
100% renewable energy at owned 
properties and North American 
Corporate Headquarters
100% elimination of single use 
plastics
100% sourcing of cage-free eggs2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT36 OF 72 
Energy and Emissions
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is committed to reducing absolute carbon emissions . In Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 15% by 2025, compared to our 
2019 baseline  .  
Reducing our energy and climate related footprint continues to be a focus area for Wyndham Hotels & Resorts . The Wyndham Green 
Certification Program involves many best practices around energy conservation . Forty percent of the certification items directly or indirectly 
impact energy conservation related efforts to minimize the use of energy  .  
Wyndham Green Strategies for Energy Conservation
Hotel Exterior:
- Energy efficient lighting
- Air sealing
Common Areas:
- Energy efficient lighting
Back of House:
- Lighting occupancy controls
- Basic & advanced preventative maintenance programs
- Efficient appliances and equipment
La Quinta® by Wyndham
Chicago, ILGuest Rooms:
- Energy efficient lighting
- Heating and cooling set points or occupancy controls
- Low flow showerheads and faucet aerators
- Wyndham Green Housekeeping or linen and towel  
   reuse program
Cloud-Based Energy Management  
Syste m Pilot at La Quinta®
In 2019, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts initiated 
a pilot program of a cloud-based energy 
management system specifically designed to 
reduce energy waste from heating and cooling in 
unoccupied guest rooms . Systems were installed 
at six La Quinta® by Wyndham hotels in California 
and Illinois taking advantage of robust incentives 
to reduce payback periods . The systems reduced 
energy waste by up to 40% .  We will continue to 
explore these cloud-based energy management 
systems opportunistically in our managed hotel 
portfolio in 2020  .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT37 OF 72 
United States Green Building Council – New Jersey Chapter
We have partnered with the U  .S . Green Building Council (USGBC) to 
promote building environmentally responsible and high performing 
structures . We are work closely with the USGBC New Jersey Chapter 
to support sustainability outreach and education within the state, and 
we have positively impacted over 15 pieces of New Jersey legislation in 
support of green building .
Our Corporate Headquarters is recognized as one of the highest 
performing Green Buildings in the country  .
Our corporate headquarters received its 1st U  .S . Green Building Council 
LEED Silver Certification for Commercial Interiors in 2010, a 2nd Silver 
Certification for Existing Buildings: Operations and Maintenance (EBOM) in 2013, and a Gold EBOM Certification in 2018, which was earned 
through water reduction, green cleaning and indoor air quality management . In 2019, we continued our pursuit of excellence in energy efficiency 
by completing an additional LED retrofit project converting nearly all of the lighting throughout the building to LED technology  .  
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has purchased Renewable Energy Credits and Carbon Offsets for its corporate offices in the US in order to maintain 
our carbon neutral position .  
Scope 3 Business Travel
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is committed to reducing our Scope 3 emissions from business travel through two programs:
UNITED AIRLINES ECO-SKIES CARBON CHOICE PROGRAM
The United Airlines Eco-Skies Carbon Choice program allows its corporate 
customers to track and offset emissions related to business travel .   
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has offset the carbon with Kenya’s Chyulu 
Hills Redd+ Project, which delivers community benefits, enhances forest 
protection, protects the biodiversity of the area and restores degraded 
rangelands which is estimated to prevent the emission of 18 million tons of 
carbon dioxide equivalent over the next 30 years .   AVIS BUDGET CARBON OFFSET PROGRAM
In conjunction with Avis Budget Group, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts 
offsets corporate car rentals through a partnership with NextEra 
Energy  .  Avis Budget contributes to the EarthERA Renewable Energy 
Trust which built the Capricorn Ridge IV Wind Farm on behalf of 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts .  
22 Sylvan Way
Parsippany, NJ
Renewable Energy 
Our Dolce® Hotel and Resort by Wyndham La Hulpe in Brussels has a 264 .4kW solar PV system that offsets 7% of its annual usage with 
renewable energy  . We will continue to explore further opportunities to utilize renewable energy where feasible in 2020  . 2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT38 OF 72 
Water
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is committed to a 15% reduction in water usage per square foot by 2025 . Through the Wyndham Green Certification 
Program, we ask hotels to follow best practices on water conservation, including many low-to-no cost upgrades that reduce both consumption 
and operating costs . These items represent 25% of overall certification requirements .
Wyndham Green Strategies for Water Conservation
Hotel Exterior:
- Irrigation controls for landscaping
Common Areas:
- Low flow toiletsBack of House:
- Efficient laundry equipment
Guest Rooms:
- Low flow showerheads
- Low flow aerators for bathroom faucets
- Low flow toilets
- Wyndham Green Housekeeping/linen and  
   towel reuse program2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT39 OF 72 
Sustainable Supplier Partnership Spotlight 
ECOLAB is a global leader in water, energy and hygiene technologies and services that operates at the center of the water-energy-food nexus .  
They help companies in over 40 industries throughout the world grow and succeed while minimizing their environmental impact . ECOLAB’s 
partnership with Wyndham Hotels & Resorts helps provide clean, safe and resource-efficient operations and delivers a true win-win result .  
In 2019, we tracked the results of our products and services at almost 4,000 Wyndham properties globally with favorable results . Our eROI 
summary presents the impact of over 211 .9 million gallons of water saved while saving over 1 .3 million therms of natural gas and avoiding 
727,900 pounds of waste to landfill .
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT40 OF 72 
Hotel Exterior:
- Basic recycling
- Single-use plastic minimization
Common Areas:
- Basic recycling
- Water refill station
- Single-use plastic minimizationBack of House:
- Recycling of hazardous materials
- Basic & advanced recycling – multiple streams
- Donation program
- Food waste composting
- Single-use plastic minimizationGuest Rooms:
- Basic recycling
- Single-use plastic minimizationWaste
Waste related topics have been a subject of increased public legislation, and we consider this as an opportunity  . Mandatory recycling 
requirements, single-use plastic minimization, polystyrene foam and plastic straw bans, electronic waste regulations, composting and food 
waste management are all important initiatives, and Wyndham Hotels & Resorts will aim to support these where possible in our operations .  
We are currently at a waste diversion rate of approximately 28% and are committed to establishing targets by 2021 .
Increasing our waste diversion rates continues to be a focus area for Wyndham Hotels & Resorts .  Embedded within the Wyndham Green 
Certification Program are many best practices around waste diversion, 25% of the certification items directly impact waste diversion related 
efforts .   
SINGLE-USE PLASTICS
We are working on eliminating single-use plastics and will comply with local laws as required . As part of 
these efforts, we are exploring viable alternatives to single-use plastics, including, but not limited to, straws, 
utensils, containers and packaging to offer our owned and managed properties while ensuring a positive guest 
experience  . We’re proud of our franchise partners and managed teams that have already taken action on this 
commitment .
All 20 brands are evaluating and piloting bulk amenity dispensers in order to reduce the single-use plastics . In 
2020, there will be bulk amenity dispenser options available for all brands .WYNDHAM GREEN STRATEGIES FOR WASTE DIVERSION2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT41 OF 72 
SPOTLIGHT: WYNDHAM GRAND® CLEARWATER BEACH RESORT
A Level 4 Advanced Wyndham Green Certified hotel, the Wyndham Grand ® Clearwater Beach Resort progressed quickly through the Wyndham 
Green Certification program while really focusing on the elimination of single use plastics in their resort operations . As recognized by Ocean 
Allies in Clearwater Beach, they have eliminated single use plastics throughout their food and beverage operations with compostable paper 
straws, compostable to-go containers, plant-based cups and paper carry-out bags . Their housekeeping team members utilize re-usable laundry 
mesh bags to gather soiled linen and terry in lieu of single use plastic bags thereby eliminating hundreds of plastic bags daily  . The hotel has also 
installed bulk amenity dispensers in all of its guest rooms, reducing waste and operating costs .
Wyndham Grand ® Clearwater Beach Resort
Clearwater Beach, FL
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT42 OF 72 
Partnership with Clean the World
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has partnered with Clean the World to recycle used soap 
bars and amenity bottles in order to divert more waste from landfills while simultaneously 
improving the quality of lives in those communities lacking resources for water, sanitation 
and hygiene  . 
Recycling Soap, Saving Lives
Bars or Soap
DistributedLbs . of Soap
CollectedLbs . of Plastic
Collected
Year to 
Date 
Totals 73,760 13,830 12,105
Historical  
Totals 726,565  136,231 98,715
Clean The  
World Impact  
Totals 54,148,013 20,558,244 2,381,421Clean the World operates global health programs and partnerships, 
including WASH (Water, Sanitation, Hygiene) programs in 127 
countries .  Historically, we have helped distribute over 54 million 
bars of soap and diverted over 22 million pounds of waste from 
landfills .   2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT43 OF 72 
• Diversity & Anti-Discrimination• Human Trafficking Awareness• Safety & Security
Protecting Human Rights 
The 5-Star Promise 
WORKING TOWARD OUR COMMITMENT
In 2018, we partnered with American Hotel & Lodging Association (AHLA) for the 5-Star Promise, 
a pledge to provide tools and resources to enhance safety and security for hotel employees in 
hotels across the US . Through the initiative, we strengthened policies and provided new trainings 
and resources, including employee safety devices (ESDs), to further hotel safety, including 
prevention and response to sexual harassment and assault . Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is proud 
to unite with our industry in support of the 5-Star Promise, showing a shared commitment to the 
incredible people who help make our guests’ travels memorable  . We are dedicated to our team 
members’ safety and security  .
Wyndham, along with other leaders in our industry, remains committed to supporting our industry’s efforts to end human trafficking . We also 
make training opportunities available for our franchised hotels, which are independently owned and operated .We are on track with our commitment to the 5-Star Promise; we have deployed employee safety devices to all of our managed hotels and rolled 
out AHLA 5-Star Promise training to our managed and corporate team members and made the training available to our franchisees .
We have worked to enhance our policies and mandated training of all our team members to help them identify and report trafficking activities .  
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts recorded over 23,000 training impressions viewed by our corporate and managed team members in 2019 including 
classes titled:
• Anti-Sexual Harassment2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT44 OF 72 
ECPAT-USA and The Code 
Wyndham is proud to work with ECPAT-USA, an organization whose mission is to protect 
every child’s human right to grow up free from the threat of sexual exploitation and trafficking .
We signed The Code, which is a joint venture between the tourism private sector and ECPAT 
International to collaborate in efforts to end the commercial sexual exploitation of children .
Human Rights Statement
We are committed to operating our business in a manner consistent with the principles 
contained in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Global Compact . In 
addition, the Company’s core values showcase our commitment to ethical business practices 
and good corporate citizenship  .
Modern Slavery Statement
We are committed to combatting slavery and human trafficking by continuing to develop 
resources and educating our employees and stakeholders across relevant areas of our business 
and supply chain .
Training
Hotels are one of many venues that traffickers use to exploit their victims . As a result, 
hospitality industry leaders are increasingly recognizing the role they can play in attempting to 
prevent and disrupt this crime  .
Our online training program, available through the Educational Institute of the American Hotel 
& Lodging Association in partnership with ECPAT-USA and Polaris, expands education about 
human trafficking and the intersections between human trafficking and the hospitality industry  .
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT45 OF 72 
Giving and Volunteering
As a hospitality company, service is in our DNA . Our teams and franchisees around the world actively engage in their communities, generously 
giving in ways that enhance the lives of others . Wyndham Hotels & Resorts supported various charitable programs including youth and 
education, military, community and environmental programs in 2019 by donating $1,369,591 . Our charitable endeavors may change from year to 
year depending on need, but we look to support our programs such as:
• Wyndham Championship Fore! Good - our way to give back to the local Piedmont Triad by inspiring the next generation through 
education, supporting community development, and helping preserve our natural resources .
• Fisher House - Wyndham participates in the Hotels for Heroes program which provides hotel rooms to the families of wounded, 
injured, and ill military service members who are undergoing treatment .
• Polaris - is a non-profit organization that spearheads the effort to fight against human trafficking and operates the US National 
Human Trafficking Hotline, to which Wyndham donates Wyndham Rewards points to provide victims with temporary safe housing .
As part of our giving efforts, including Wyndham Rewards and its members, the program has donated more than 110 million points since 
inception to various non-profit organizations to redeem for travel and other related goods and services .   
Our philanthropy captures the dedication and pledge of team members, leadership and business partners to make lasting, important 
contributions in the communities where we operate  .  This enables the Company to deliver on its core values and bring to life its Count on Me 
service culture to our customers and communities around the world .  
84,109,255  
7,756,300  
604,600 
18,270,950 DIVERSITY & INCL USION
HUMAN RIGHT S
ENVIRONMENT
COMMUNITYDONATION OF WYNDHAM REWARDS POINTSSupporting our Communities
Our program’s mission is to improve 
the lives of future generations 
globally, focusing on education, 
wellness, conservation, disaster 
relief and other prioritized UN 
Sustainable Development Goals .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT46 OF 72 
VOLUNTEERING
• Board Service  – Many executives serve or have served their 
time on non-profit boards such as AHLA, US Travel, and ECPAT 
-USA to name a few  .
• Mentoring  – We offer support and participate in Big Brothers 
Big Sisters (BBBS) and Junior Achievement programs .
• Pro Bono  – Our teams provide support to organizations such 
as NJ LEEP and Pro Bono Partnership  .
• Walks/Runs  – Team members participate in events by the 
American Cancer Society, Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, 
Marine Corps, Carry The Load and Hope For The Warriors . 
• Be Well Garden  – Team members in Parsippany and Saint John 
donated all produce from their local company gardens to local 
food pantries .
• Wish Days  – Each team member in the US and Canada is given 
a day off to volunteer  .  Team members contributed 2,313 Wish 
Hours in 2019 or $119,803 equivalent . 
SPOTLIGHT: BE WELL GARDEN COMMITTEE
The Parsippany Be Well Garden Committee recently 
closed the 2019 gardening season with their final 
donation to the Interfaith Food Pantry in Morris Plains, 
New Jersey  . This year, the dedicated committee donated 
more than 100 pounds of produce to the food pantry, 
including green beans, cucumbers, tomatoes, basil, 
garlic, radishes, bell peppers, romaine and sweet lettuce, 
tomatoes and sunflowers, which they harvested from the 
garden’s four plots between April and October  . 
The Saint John Be Well Garden also donated all produce 
to a local food pantry in Saint John, Canada .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT47 OF 72 
Brand Partnerships 
Our brands are committed to giving back to the communities that we work, live, and enjoy  . Many of our brands have forged alliances with non-
profit organizations or developed their own initiatives to give back .
DAYS INN® BY WYNDHAM AND STARLIGHT FOUNDATION
Bringing some extra sunshine to those who need it most, Days Inn® by Wyndham teamed up with Starlight Children’s Foundation to launch the 
latest design-a-gown contest, which invites Days Inn® guests young and old to tap into their childhood creativity and design a children’s hospital 
gown that brightens the days of young patients while helping them feel safe, empowered and inspired . Through this initiative, which also 
included an ongoing social content series sharing words of encouragement to struggling children and their families, Days Inn® produced 1,000 
gowns to be distributed at 10 hospitals across the country including our local Goryeb Children’s Hospital at Morristown Medical Center  .
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT48 OF 72 
DAYS INN® BY WYNDHAM – LEVEL THE PLAYING FIELD
Travel baseball can brighten kids’ futures, but rising costs have created a widening gap between those who can and can’t afford to join teams .  
With 1,400+ properties and a large travel-ball family customer base, Days Inn® by Wyndham wanted to help “level the playing field”, so it started 
and sponsored a youth travel baseball team, the Golden Rays, for families for whom travel baseball was out of reach .  
For this initiative, Days Inn® won the Shorty Social Good Award (Top Winner in Hospitality 
& Travel) and Shorty Social Good Award (Silver in Video Series), as recognized by the 
Real Time Academy honoring the best of social media .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT49 OF 72 
SUPER 8® BY WYNDHAM - #JOURNEYSAFE
Super 8® by Wyndham, as your trusted companion on the road, raised awareness and educated the public around the dangers of drowsy driving 
ahead of National Sleep Awareness Month and Daylight Saving Time  . In partnership with philanthropist and actor Giacomo Gianniotti and sleep 
expert Dr  . Janet Kennedy, the #JourneySafe campaign earned over 100 million impressions for the highly prevalent, yet starkly underreported 
issue linked to more than 100,000 crashes annually  . We want to promote healthy habits and make highways safer for everyone  . Our hotels are 
ready and waiting when you need to pull over and rest . And the safer you are, the further you can go  . 
SUPER 8® BY WYNDHAM - HOPE FOR THE WARRIORS
Super 8® by Wyndham is proud to support those who serve 
– today and every day  . Our brand offers reserved veteran 
parking at every hotel in North America and 15-20% off 
military discounts year-round . The brand is also partnering 
with Hope For The Warriors, dedicated to restoring a 
sense of self, family and hope for military members and 
their families . They provide comprehensive support 
programs focused on transition, health and wellness, peer 
engagement and connections to community resources .  
With our shared commitment to recognize and appreciate 
those who have served, Super 8® was honored to sponsor 
the Run for the Warriors in Long Island, N . Y . and encouraged 
Wyndham Rewards members to donate points to the 
charity in celebration of Military Family Appreciation Month .  
We’re pleased to announce over 500,000 points have been 
donated, with a total of one million points donated to 501c 
military partners .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT50 OF 72 
HOWARD JOHNSON® BY WYNDHAM & YMCA
Delivering smiles in every town, Howard Johnson® has continued its partnership with the YMCA to encourage 
communities to create new memories by being active, bringing people closer together and fostering new 
friendships with the hope of positive change  . In 2019, Howard Johnson® was the official sponsor of the 28th 
Annual Healthy Kids Day®, the YMCA’s national initiative to improve health and well-being of kids and families 
reaching more than 1 .3 million participants (adults and children) .  
Through this partnership, YMCA members can save up to 20% off at participating hotels across the country 
with 10% of every booking being donated back to the YMCA to help support its mission for youth development, 
healthy living and social responsibility  .
TRAVELODGE ®AND NATIONAL PARKS CONSERVATION ASSOCIATION
Travelodge® by Wyndham – travelers’ basecamp for adventure – has a long history of celebrating and 
helping protect the environment . Known coast-to-coast for its laid-back California roots and iconic 
Sleepy Bear mascot, today, more than 75 percent of all Travelodge® hotels are located just an hour’s 
drive from some of the nation’s most celebrated National Parks . In an effort to help protect such 
vital landmarks, our brand is proud to serve as an official sponsor of the National Parks Conservation 
Association (NPCA) . NPCA members are eligible to enjoy up to 20 percent off their next stay, with 
5 percent being donated to NPCA, with our special discount being offered by participating hotels .  
Furthermore, in an effort to increase awareness around eco-friendly behaviors and travel, Travelodge® 
continues to encourage travelers to help protect and preserve our parks through our national 
volunteer clean-up initiative, Adventure Responsibly, while also educating the public on how to 
organize and host clean-up and preservation events of their own .
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT51 OF 72 
Be Well
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is committed to offering programs that focus on nutrition, exercise, lifestyle management, physical and emotional 
wellness, financial health and the quality of the environment in which we work and live  . We believe that health and wellness invokes both 
professional and personal productivity, achievement and fulfillment . To help all of our team members lead healthier lifestyles while balancing 
family, work and other responsibilities, we offer several resources all under the branded Be Well – embracing a healthy lifestyle program . Many 
of our programs are offered at no cost to our team members and are available to their families as well . Below is a sample of the many Be Well 
successes Wyndham Hotels & Resorts celebrated in 2019  .
BE WELL DAY (MAY 22, 2019)
Each year Wyndham Hotels & Resorts celebrates wellness on Be Well Day  .  On this day, team members from all over the country participated 
in activities to promote the varied aspects of health and well-being, including physical, mental, emotional, social and financial health . These 
activities include health fairs, physical activity challenges, healthy cooking demonstrations, on-site health screenings and a wide variety of 
educational sessions . In 2019, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts encouraged our managed properties to participate in Be Well Day by facilitating a fun 
contest to win additional funds for future wellness activities .  
BE WELL HEALTH SERVICES
An onsite Be Well Health Services facility is located at our corporate location in New Jersey and provides services to hundreds of team 
members . This facility partnered with a quality local healthcare system to provide convenient and dedicated care  . There is no cost to team 
members to access these clinic services . In addition to diagnosis and treatment for minor illnesses, our onsite Nurse Practitioner provides 
ongoing health education and a variety of preventative services . Wellness services include blood pressure monitoring, diabetes screenings, 
influenza vaccines, ergonomic evaluations and referrals to appropriate providers .   
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT52 OF 72 
ONSITE FITNESS FACILITY
The facility at our corporate location in New Jersey provides basic exercise 
equipment in a clean and friendly environment, in addition to a variety of classes 
and motivational programs . The health fitness specialist and program manager 
encourage team members to become more physically active and exceed their 
wellness goals . Not only does the fitness center impact team member physical 
health and well-being, but it also assists team members in stress management .  
CANCER SCREENINGS
The overall cancer screenings received by our U  .S . based team members now 
surpasses our medical provider’s book of business norm in two major categories 
– breast and cervical cancer  . Utilization continues to increase with the promotion 
and incenting of the annual physical in addition to onsite education .  
INCREASING ACCESS TO CARE AND ONSITE PROGRAMS
Onsite flu shot clinics assist in keeping our team members healthy and minimizing 
absenteeism . Wyndham Hotels & Resorts brought flu shots onsite to most of our 
larger properties . Flu shots were also administered at our corporate locations in 
New Jersey and Texas .  
BE WELL
AT WYNDHAM2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT53 OF 72 
WYNDHAM RELIEF FUND
In times of great need, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is compelled to act by implementing programs designed to assist not only the community, 
but also our team members . The Wyndham Relief Fund was created to help employees who are facing financial hardship immediately after 
a natural disaster or an unforeseen personal hardship  . We do this by donating financial support and Wyndham Rewards points . Both the 
Company and team members provide gifts to the Wyndham Relief Fund to help offer immediate assistance and also long-term benefits to 
those impacted by hardship  . Following business challenges and hotel closures related to the COVID-19 pandemic, through the Wyndham Relief 
Fund, we were able to help over 2,800 associates that were impacted by furloughs and temporary closures .
WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP 
Wyndham Rewards is the proud title sponsor of the Wyndham 
Championship, the final stop on the PGA TOUR FedEx Cup regular 
season .
Contested annually on the Donald Ross-designed course at Sedgefield 
County Club in Greensboro, N . C ., the Wyndham Championship was 
founded in 1938, and has been creating significant charitable impact 
throughout the Piedmont Triad . The Wyndham Championship is 
presented by the Piedmont Triad Charitable Foundation, a registered 
501(c3) non-profit organization .
Creating a positive impact in the community has always been a 
central focus of the Wyndham Championship, and the Wyndham 
Championship Fore! Good program highlights all of the ways the 
Tournament gives back . Whether inspiring the next generation through 
education, supporting community development, or helping preserve 
our natural resources, the Wyndham Championship’s local impact 
is “Fore! Good . ” In 2019, the Championship supported over 50 local, 
regional and national charities with over $1 .5 million in charitable 
impact .
For the fourth consecutive year, Wyndham Rewards donated the “Key To Wyn” House, a fan amenity used during the Wyndham Championship 
golf tournament, to Habitat for Humanity to build a new home  . It was carefully disassembled, loaded onto trucks and transported to the Habitat 
for Humanity site in Greensboro, NC where it was reassembled as a home for a local family  .  
2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT54 OF 72 
PERFORMANCE TABLES
ECONOMIC
Our Company 2019 2018
Revenue (in millions) $2,053 $1,868
Number of Employees 14,200 16,200 
Number of Affiliated Hotels 9,280 9,157
Number of Properties Under Management 394 440
Number of Enrolled Wyndham Rewards Members (in millions) 81 61
ENVIRONMENTAL
Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
In Metric Tons of CO2 Equivalents 2019 2018
Scope 1 Emissions 73,688 57,578
Scope 2 Emissions 253,161 235,785
Combined Scope 1 & Scope 2 Emissions 326,849 293,363
Emissions Intensity (Tonnes CO2e/SQFT) 0.0085 0.0089
Energy Consumption  
In Megawatt Hours 2019 2018
Direct Energy Consumption 400,530 309,772
Indirect Energy Consumption 579,100 529,008
Total Energy Consumption 979,629 838,780
Energy Intensity (Kilowatt hours per square foot) 25.3 25.5
Renewable Energy Consumption 244  244
Water Consumption 
In Kilogallons 2019 2018
Municipal Water 2,386,260 1,922,512
Ground Water 9,546 16,416
Water Intensity (Kilogallons per square foot) 0.0619 0.059152020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT55 OF 72 
SOCIAL
WORKFORCE DIVERSITY
Age 2019 2018
Traditionalists <1% <1%
Boomers 21% 22%
Gen X 27% 27%
Millennials 47% 46%
Gen Z 5% 4%
Gender 2019 2018
% of Women in Workforce 62% 62%
% of Women in Leadership Band 28% 31%
% of Women in Mid-Level Band 51% 48%
% of Women in Professional Band 63% 64%
Race & Ethnicity 2019 2018
White 37% 37%
Hispanic or Latino 35% 34%
Black or African American 20% 21%
Asian 5% 4%
Two or more races 3% 2%
American Indian or Alaska Native <1% <1%
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific 
Island <1% <1%WORKFORCE ENGAGEMENT
Employee Turnover 2019 2018
Hotel Employees Voluntary 
Turnover67% 42%
Hotel Employees Involuntary 
Turnover28% 18%
Corporate Employees Voluntary 
Turnover16% 12%
Corporate Employees Involuntary 
Turnover10% 10%
Voluntary Turnover Total 58% 37%
Involuntary Turnover Total 25% 17%
Training & Development 2019 2018
Total Trainings Completed 229,7071147,769
SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT 
Training & Development 2019 2018
Spend with Diverse Suppliers 12.6% 12.5%
1 The launch of Wyndham’s new online training platform resulted in a significant 
increase in the number of trainings completed in 2019  . This number represents 
trainings completed through Wyndham’s new online system . 2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT56 OF 72 
GRI Content Index
To develop our Social Responsibility Report, Wyndham Hotels & Resorts has referenced the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, which 
represents current best practice globally for reporting on economic, environmental and social performance  . 
This GRI Content Index is designed to assist our stakeholders in locating disclosures and metrics of interest . (To learn more about the GRI, 
please visit www  .globalreporting . org .)
GENERAL DISCLOSURES:
Disclosures Description Location and/or Direct Answer
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, Inc .
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Company Overview ( page  5)
Additional information can be found on pages 2-3 of our 2019 10-K Filing , pages 3-10 of 
our  2020 Investor Presentation  (Published in February 2020) and the Our Brands  section 
of our corporate website  .
102-3 Location of headquarters Our corporate headquarters are located at 22 Sylvan Way, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054 .
102-4 Location of operations Company Overview ( page  5)
Our global footprint encompassed more than 90 countries across six continents . 
102-5 Ownership and legal form Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is a publicly traded corporation .
102-6 Markets served Company Overview ( page  5)
Additional information can be found on pages 2-3 of our 2019 10-K Filing , pages 3-10 of 
our  2020 Investor Presentation  (Published in February 2020) and the Our Brands  section 
of our corporate website  .
102-7 Scale of the organization Company Overview ( page  5)
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is the world’s largest hotel franchising company based on num -
ber of properties, with approximately 9,300 hotels . Additional information can be found on 
pages 2-3 of our 2019 10-K Filing , pages 3-10 of our  2020 Investor Presentation  (Published 
in February 2020) and the Our Brands  section of our corporate website  .
102-8 Information on employees and other 
workersPerformance Tables ( page 54 )
As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 14,200 employees, including approximately 
1,300 employees outside of the United States . While we employ contractors and seasonal 
workers as needed, the majority of work is performed by our full-time employees . 2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT57 OF 72 
102-9 Supply chain Wyndham Hotels & Resorts manages a vast supplier network that provides goods and 
services to properties around the globe  . Our primary sourcing categories include Operat -
ing Supplies, Furniture and Fixtures, Food and Beverage, Technology, Banking and other 
ancillary services . 
Additional information can be found in the “Supplier Engagement” section pages X-Y of 
this Report .  
102-10 Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chainNot applicable during the reporting period
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Social Responsibility Program ( page 8 )
Environmental Sustainability ( page 32 )
102-12 External initiatives Advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals ( page 8 )
Diversity & Inclusion ( page 22 )
Human Rights ( page 32 )
102-13 Membership of associations Global Partners ( page 20 )
Strategy
102-14 Statement from the most senior deci -
sion-maker about the relevance of sus -
tainability and organization’s strategyA Message from our President and CEO ( page 3 )
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Our Social Responsibility Program ( page 8 )
Materiality ( page 10 )
Advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals ( page 8 )
Additional information can be found in the “Our Strategy” and “Risk Factors” sections on 
pages 6-8 and 12-21 of our 2019 10-K Filing  . We also report on climate-related risks and 
opportunities in Question C2 of our annual CDP Climate disclosures  .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT58 OF 72 
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 
of behavior Wyndham Hotels & Resorts considers its ethical culture as integral to all we do to make 
hotel travel possible for all . We were recognized in 2019 and 2020 as one of the World’s 
Most Ethical companies by the Ethisphere Institute, a leader in measuring corporate ethical 
standards and advancing and promoting best ethical business practices . In 2020, we were 
one of only two lodging and hospitality organizations globally to receive this recognition . 
Additionally, Ethisphere’s Business Ethics Leadership Alliance (BELA), consisting of almost 
300 leading member companies, selected our Chief Privacy Officer as one of two individ -
ual recipients of its Beacon Award recognizing demonstrated thought leadership, engage -
ment and commitment to growing the compliance and ethics community  .
Additional information can be found in the Mission & Values  section of our corporate web -
site, and in our Business Principles  and Human Rights Statement  .
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethicsStrong ethics are the foundation for our culture at Wyndham Hotels & Resorts, with Integ -
rity and Accountability as two of our core values . As part of our commitment to these val -
ues, we offer our Integrity Line, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and 365 days per 
year for confidential and anonymous reporting of concerns . We do not tolerate retaliation 
in any form against team members for reporting potential ethical violations in good faith or 
for participating in an investigation .
In 2019, we enhanced our Integrity Line capabilities with web-based reporting (U  .S .), and 
launched an awareness campaign to promote hotline usage  . The campaign focused on a 
new tagline message of “Speak Up! Help us live our Company’s core values of Integrity and 
Accountability by reporting your ethical concerns” to encourage reporting, and reminding 
team members that compliance and ethics are everyone’s responsibility  . Campaign mate -
rials included flyers and posters for location displays, as well as desk drop supplementa -
ry materials, such as cards and stickers . Reader-friendly infographic 5x7 cards provided 
transparency into the Integrity reporting, investigation and resolution processes as well as 
dispelled frequent “hotline myths”, while stickers for mobile phones with Integrity Line con -
tact information were provided to facilitate team member reporting anytime or anywhere 
from their mobile devices .
The following concerns were reported by category and percentage in 2019:
Category Category
Employee Relations . Includes: bullying, discrimination, falsification of 
employment records, favoritism, harassment (non-sexual), protected 
concerted activity, sexual harassment, wage & hour, other employee relations 
issues83%
Business Integrity  . Includes: antitrust, conflicts of interest, legal or regulatory 
violations, marketing integrity violation, policy issues, product quality con -
cern, retaliation, sabotage, sales integrity violation, theft7%
Financial Misconduct . Includes: accounting/audit irregularities, bribery/kick -
backs, falsification of company records, fraud, improper loans to executives, 
insider trading, money laundering4%
Environment, Health & Safety  . Includes: human rights, safety & sanitation 
issues, substance abuse, workplace violence4%
Misuse/Misappropriation of Assets . Includes: customer relations, data privacy 
violations, improper use of resources, releases of proprietary information2%2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT59 OF 72 
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethicsWe also maintain standards concerning discrimination, harassment, bullying and retaliation 
to encourage reporting of any inappropriate activity  . All reports are investigated and disci -
plinary action is taken as appropriate, up to and including termination .
Additional information can be found in the Mission & Values  section of our corporate web -
site, and in our Business Principles  and Supplier Code of Conduct  . 
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Governance  (page 11 )
Additional information can be found in the Corporate Governance  section of our corporate 
website  .
102-22 Composition of the highest governance 
body and its committees The composition of our Board and its Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and 
Executive Committees is reported on our Committee Composition  webpage  .
Additional information can also be found in our 2020 Proxy Statement  .
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Stephen P  . Holmes, former Chairman and CEO of Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, serves 
as Non-Executive Chairman of our Board . 
Additional information can be found in our 2020 Proxy Statement .
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body Diversity, age, skills and experience are considered to enhance the Board’s ability to man -
age and direct the affairs and business of the Company including, when applicable, to 
enhance the ability of committees of the Board to fulfill their duties and to satisfy any inde -
pendence requirements imposed by law, regulation or the New York Stock Exchange  .
Our Board currently consists of eight members, six of whom are independent Directors 
under applicable listing standards and our corporate governance documents .  
Additional information can be found in our Corporate Governance Committee Charter ,  our 
Corporate Governance Guidelines,  our Director Independence Criteria  and our 2020 Proxy 
Statement  .
102-25 Conflicts of interest Our policies regarding conflicts of interest are set forth on page 2 of our Corporate Gover -
nance Guidelines,  and in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors  .
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s 
performance Pursuant to the “Assessing Board Performance” section on page 6 of our Corporate Gov -
ernance Guidelines,  the Corporate Governance Committee conducts an annual self-eval -
uation . The Corporate Governance Committee utilizes the results of this self-evaluation 
process in assessing and determining the characteristics and critical skills required of pro -
spective candidates for election to the Board and making recommendations to the Board 
with respect to assignments of Board members to various committees . 
102-36 Process for determining remuneration We report on our process for determining remuneration on pages 27-55 of our 2020 Proxy 
Statement .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT60 OF 72 
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement  (page 12 )
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Approximately 6% of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements gov -
erning their employment with our Company  .
This information is also reported on page 11 of our 2019 10-K Filing  .
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders We identify and engage with stakeholders in consideration of our value chain impacts . 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement  (page 12 )
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality ( page 10 )
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements Our Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements include Wyndham Hotels’ assets, 
liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows and all entities in which Wyndham Hotels has 
a controlling financial interest .
This information is also reported on page 27 of our 2019 10-K Filing  .
102-46 Defining report content and topic bound -
aries We have defined report content in consideration of our value chain impacts and the infor -
mation of greatest interest to our stakeholders .
102-47 List of material topics Please refer to the Management Approach Disclosures in this GRI Content Index, where we 
have provided disclosures on a series of  economic, environmental and social topics  .
102-48 Restatements of information None during the reporting period .
102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable during the reporting period .
102-50 Reporting period Our reporting period is calendar year 201 9 .
102-51 Date of most recent report 2019
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 
report socialresponsibility@wyndham . com
102-56 External assurance LRQA reviewed specified indicators within the report in accordance with the attestation 
standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants . 
The Independent Accountants’ Review Report can be found on pages 72 of this report .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT61 OF 72 
MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES:
Material Topics GRI Disclosures Location and/or Direct Answer
ECONOMIC
Economic 
Performance103 Management approach 2019 10-K Filing
2020 Investor Presentation  (Published in February 2020)
201-1 Direct economic value 
generated and distributed 2019 10-K Filing
Supporting Our Communities ( page 45 )
201-2 Financial implications 
and other risks and 
opportunities for the 
organization’s activities 
due to climate changeCDP Climate Change  Response
Wyndham Green Toolbox ( page 34 )
Chronic physical risks are identified and assessed cross-functionally in alignment with the Task 
Force for Climate-Related Disclosures (TCFD) framework across our Company with leadership 
driven by Social Responsibility, Business Continuity and Enterprise Risk Management teams . 
Examples of chronic physical risks that are potentially relevant to our Company include rising 
sea levels, rising mean temperatures, changes in precipitation patterns (including droughts) 
and extreme variability in weather patterns .
Indirect 
Economic 
Impacts103 Management approach Advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals ( page 8 )
Human Rights  (page 43 )
Supporting Our Communities ( page 45 )
203-1Infrastructure investments 
and services supportedSupporting Our Communities ( page 45 )2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT62 OF 72 
Material Topics GRI Disclosures Location and/or Direct Answer
Anti-
Corruption103 Management approach As a global company, we strive to grow our business responsibly, enhance the communities in 
which we operate and avoid practices that could be harmful to others . In accordance with our 
Business Principles, all team members are expected to do their part to maintain the highest 
ethical standards and behavior as we continue to grow in communities around the world . As 
corrupt practices have devastating impacts globally, we are committed to conducting our 
business fairly and in compliance with all applicable anti-corruption legislation, including the 
US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act . Our commitment to ethical business 
practices is reflected in our Anti-Corruption and Anti-Fraud Policy; Gifts, Travel & Entertainment 
and Contributions Standard; Conflict of Interest Standard and Political Activity Standard .
The Business Principles sets forth compliance and ethical standards and information 
concerning our anti-corruption policies and procedures for all team members, including 
directors, to carry out these commitments .
Additional information can be found in our Business Principles , Supplier Code of Conduct  and 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors  .
204-1 Communication and 
training on anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresWyndham Hotels & Resorts provides training in support of its anti-corruption efforts, as well as 
its ethics and compliance and related programs in a variety of formats customized to various 
stakeholders and business needs . Core training courses were streamlined and relaunched to 
include instructor-led, online and tablet or mobile compatible formats .
Our Global Anti-Corruption Training content was updated to educate team members not 
only on how to comply with our policies and procedures, but to facilitate their understanding 
of the devastating effects of corruption on global communities . Fighting corruption is not 
only a compliance matter, but as it disproportionately affects the poor and most vulnerable, 
increasing their costs and reducing access to critical health, education and other services, it is 
an ethical concern where we encourage our team members to think globally and act locally  .
Suppliers are also required to view our Anti-Corruption Awareness Training, available at: https:/ /
suppliers . wyndham . com . 2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT63 OF 72 
Material Topics GRI Disclosures Location and/or Direct Answer
ENVIRONMENTAL
Energy 103 Management approach Energy and Emissions ( page 36 )
302-1 Energy consumption 
within the organization 
• Independently assuredPerformance Tables ( page 54 )
302-3 Energy intensity 
• Independently assuredPerformance Tables ( page 54 )
Water 103 Management approach Water ( page 38 )
303-3 Water withdrawal by 
source
• Independently assuredPerformance Tables ( page 54 )2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT64 OF 72 
Material Topics GRI Disclosures Location and/or Direct Answer
Emissions  103 Management approach Energy and Emissions ( page 36 )
305-1 Direct greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions (Scope 1)  
• Independently assuredPerformance Tables ( page 54 )
Our scope 1 emissions include natural gas and other fuels combusted on site in addition to 
gasoline use in our fleet vehicles .
The following gases are included in the GHG inventory: CO2, CH4, N2O, and HFCs and 
the reductions are compared to prior year emissions . For the calculation of Scope 1 and 2 
emissions, we utilized the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, 
Revised Edition (the GHG Protocol)
We used the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) as the source of Global Warming Potential 
values .
305-2 Energy indirect 
greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions (Scope 2) 
• Independently assuredPerformance Tables ( page 54 )
Please refer to 305-1 for the list of gases included in Scope 2 calculation, and our calculation 
methodology  . Our scope 2 emissions include district chilled water and all electricity consumed 
at our hotels .
305-2 Other indirect greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions 
(Scope 3) Performance Tables ( page 54 )
In 2019, Net Scope 3 emissions from compliant business travel were 2,068 .33 metric tons of 
CO2e  . 
2019 Gross Scope 3 emissions were 3,629  .20 metric tons of CO2e less carbon offsets from 
United EcoSkies and AvisBudget Group programs of 1,590  .87 metric tons of CO2e  .
305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions intensity Energy & Emissions ( page 36 )
GHG emissions included in this calculation include Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reported 
under GRI 305-1 and 305-2 .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT65 OF 72 
Material Topics GRI Disclosures Location and/or Direct Answer
Effluents and 
Waste 103 Management approach Waste ( page 40 )
306-2 Waste by type and 
disposal method Waste ( page 40 )
This indicator is partially reported . 
Environmental 
Compliance103 Management approach Environmental Sustainability ( page 32 )
307-1 Non-compliance with 
environmental laws and 
regulationsNone during the reporting period .
Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 103 Management approach Supplier Engagement ( page 21 )
Supplier Code of Conduct
308-1 New suppliers that 
were screened using 
environmental criteria Supplier Engagement ( page 21 )
SOCIAL
Employment 103 Management approach Engagement and Program Highlights ( page 13 )
Wyndham Careers
401-1 Employee turnover Performance Tables ( page 54 )2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT66 OF 72 
Material Topics GRI Disclosures Location and/or Direct Answer
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety403-1 Management approach Be Well – Health & Well-Being of our Team ( page 51 )
Our management approach to ensure workplace safety is rigorous and both data and process- 
driven . Wyndham utilizes an Occupational Health and Safety Management System to establish 
and maintain an effective process for implementing safety standards and procedures across 
our business . To ensure we maintain the highest level of safety awareness, health and safety 
reviews are conducted which evaluate the performance of individually owned and operated 
hotels within the areas of regulatory compliance, associate training, emergency preparedness, 
fire, and life safety  .
 
In alignment with our goal to maintain a consistently high standard of safety performance, 
the Company uses an online incident reporting and loss prevention system which enables 
stakeholders to identify and track work-related risks and hazards .
403-6 Promotion of Worker 
HealthBe Well – Health & Well-Being of our Team ( page 51 )
Training and 
Education 103 Management approach Engagement and Program Highlights ( page 13 )
404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and 
transition assistance 
programsEngagement and Program Highlights ( page 13 )
Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 103 Management approach Diversity and Inclusion ( page 22 )
405-1 Diversity of governance 
bodies and employees Performance Tables ( page 54 )
The Board of Directors is comprised of six men and two women and includes both Caribbean 
and Asian American representation .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT67 OF 72 
Material Topics GRI Disclosures Location and/or Direct Answer
Human Rights 
Assessment 103 Management approach Protecting Human Rights ( page 43 )
Human Rights Statement
Modern Slavery Statement
Supplier Code of Conduct
412-2 Employee training on 
human rights policies or 
proceduresProtecting Human Rights ( page 43 )
Local 
Communities 103 Management approach Supporting our Communities ( page 45 )
413-1 Operations with local 
community engagement, 
impact assessments, and 
development programsLocal community engagement programs were in place across our all major countries of 
operations during the reporting period . 2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT68 OF 72 
Material Topics GRI Disclosures Location and/or Direct Answer
Supplier Social 
Assessment 103 Management approach Supplier Engagement ( page 2 1)
Diversity and Inclusion ( page 22 )
Supplier Code of Conduct
414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using labor 
practices criteria Supplier Engagement ( page 29 )
Diversity and Inclusion ( page 22 ) 
 
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts is committed to provide our owned, managed and franchised 
hotels exclusively with suppliers of cage-free eggs, in order to source 100% of our eggs (shell, 
liquid and egg products) from cage-free sources globally by 2025 .  We are at the beginning of 
this journey providing our owned, managed and independent franchised hotels with sourcing 
options for suppliers of cage-free eggs as we strive towards this new target just set in 2019  .  In 
2019, 2% of shell eggs and 2% of egg products (liquid/processed) are currently cage-free within 
our supply chain .   .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT69 OF 72 
Material Topics GRI Disclosures Location and/or Direct Answer
Customer 
Health and 
Safety103 Management approach Stay Well Program ( page 19 )
To protect the safety and security of our guests, Wyndham conducts assessments and 
implements strategies at all our owned and managed properties to ensure guest safety during 
emergency events and situations . Preparation and response measures are in place to protect 
guest safety and manage operations during extreme weather events, such as hurricanes and 
wildfires, as well as other urgent circumstances that require immediate response, such as 
terroristic attacks and global pandemics . 
Our Corporate Security and Business Continuity teams work with all of our owned and 
managed assets that are deemed to be business critical and develop risk profiles . Based on 
the risk profile, a recovery time objective (RTO) is determined – this is how quickly the location 
has to be operating at what capacity  . Once the RTO is determined, appropriate business 
recovery solutions are designed for the location to meet that objective  . All managed hotels are 
also provided an emergency preparedness guide to assist them in not only preparing for an 
emergency event but also for managing one as it occurs .
We have a dedicated 24/7 toll free number for property managers to report critical incidents 
and immediately receive guidance and support in managing the event and minimizing the 
impact of the event on our properties .  All critical locations have been entered into a system 
by latitude and longitude  . When any event occurs within a pre-designated radius of the hotel, 
Wyndham gets an email alert along with the senior leaders and property manager for that 
location .  This allows us to receive an early warning system and permits us to proactively take 
measures to minimize the adverse impact of the event .
416-1 Assessment of the health 
and safety impacts of 
product and service 
categoriesAssessments and systems to protect guest health and safety are implemented at all of our 
owned and managed properties .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT70 OF 72 
Material Topics GRI Disclosures Location and/or Direct Answer
Customer 
Privacy 103 Management approach Wyndham Hotels & Resorts recognizes that our guests, Wyndham Rewards® members, 
team members and others place their trust in us when they provide us with their personal 
information . We demonstrate our commitment to our ethical culture, our core values of 
Integrity and Accountability and that we are deserving of their trust when our privacy practices 
align with our Count on Me! team member philosophy  . We believe that to truly deliver a great 
experience and build customer loyalty, we must respect individuals’ choices about how their 
personal information is used, and be responsive to their privacy-related requests .
Our privacy program focuses holistically on the information lifecycle, and works in close 
partnership with our information management and information security programs . Our 
activities include training and awareness initiatives for both our corporate and property-
based team members, evaluating new services or providers that may process personal 
information in conjunction with information security and vendor risk management, monitoring 
key performance indicators including the number of privacy requests, incidents or hotline 
inquiries per quarter, and processing all privacy requests . In recognition of the importance 
personal information has to our customers, members and others, we consider, evaluate 
and appropriately respond to privacy requests from individuals worldwide, and do not limit 
individuals’ ability to submit requests to jurisdictions where this is legally required .
We recently redeveloped our electronic learning modules, streamlining content and ensuring 
compatibility with mobile devices to more flexibly facilitate property-based team member 
course completion . Our new content focuses not only on privacy and security legal, technical 
or process requirements, but provides context for privacy and security principles in both 
corporate and property-based settings, so that our team members understand and relate to 
the concept of personal information rights and recognize how these are reflected within the 
information lifecycles of their operations .
Our standard curriculum is supplemented with engaging activities to encourage team members 
to directly relate to and embrace privacy and information security principles . We regularly 
collaborate with information security, information management and company leadership to 
celebrate Data Privacy Day, offering team members the opportunity to learn about not only the 
latest legal developments or potential risks relevant to our operations, but “hot topics” such as 
artificial intelligence, phishing, spoofing, ransomware, location tracking and more and how they 
relate to team members and their families in their daily personal activities . We also embrace our 
core value of Fun and apply it to role-specific privacy training . For example, for the California 
Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), we collaborated with our marketing, digital and Wyndham 
Rewards departments to deliver an interactive training session with a “California” beach theme, 
music, giveaways and refreshments .
We also regularly provide updates to our Board and the Audit Committee on our privacy, 
information management and security program activities, as well as key emerging issues and 
risks in these ever-developing areas from our leadership  . The Board has also been provided 
privacy and security awareness training from third party subject matter experts .
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts also recognizes the value in cross-industry thought leadership to 
promote privacy awareness and “raise the bar” for continuous privacy improvements across 
organizations . To that end, we participate in groups such as the Ethisphere Institute’s Business 
and Ethical Leadership Alliance (BELA), and our Chief Privacy Officer serves as the current co-
chair of the BELA Compliance and Privacy Working Group (CPWG) . The CPWG works to share 
knowledge on key privacy developments and trends, and to create relevant tools and templates 
BELA members may use to enhance their own practices .
Additional information on our privacy practices can be found in our Privacy Notice  .2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT71 OF 72 
Material Topics GRI Disclosures Location and/or Direct Answer
418-1 Substantiated complaints 
regarding breaches of 
customer privacy and 
losses of customer data None during the reporting period .
 2020 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT72 OF 72 
