YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Remarks by Yum China CEO
Highlights from 2021
About Us
Purpose
Vision
Core Values
Our Value Chain
Corporate Governance
Governance Structure
Board Diversity
Business Ethics
Sustainability Strategy
Sustainability Governance
Stakeholder Engagement
Materiality Assessment
Minimize Environmental Footprint by 
Leveraging 4R PrinciplesCommon Prosperity
Equal Access to Education
Community Care
Culture and Sports02
04
06
07
07
07
07
08
08
09
09
10
11
12
13
About this Report
Appendix
Key Performance Indicators 
Contribution to United Nation 
Sustainable Development Goals 
GRI Index 
Assurance Report
Basis of Assured Data110
112
112
114
118
122
12437
Climate Action
Circular Economy
Supply Chain Environmental Impact38
48
5489
94
96
10334 86CONTENTS
Build a Value Chain that Protects Food Safety
Technology Enabled Food Safety Management
Balanced and Nutritious Meals
Industry Communication and Public Education14
17
26
28
31Food Environment Community
Create a Sustainable Workplace that 
Reinforces 'People First'
Customer Relationship Management
Supply Chain Social Impact 59
81
8456
 People
YUM CHINAYum China Sustainability Report 202103 02
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Remarks by Yum China CEO
As the world continues to navigate the profound economic 
and social disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, 
we remain steadfast in our long-term commitment to 
sustainability and sustainable growth. And as we continue to 
adapt to the rapid change and the new realities, building and 
maintaining a responsible ecosystem remains at the core of 
our mission. 
Addressing the challenges of climate change requires 
immediate and tangible actions. Many companies have begun 
incorporating climate-related risks into their planning to 
turn the challenges of decarbonization into opportunities for 
sustainable growth. To support the transition to a less carbon-
intensive world economy, we took an important step forward 
by committing to Science Based Target initiatives (SBTi) and to 
reaching net zero value chain Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions 
by 2050. We have started to formulate a GHG emissions 
inventory across our entire value chain as a basis for defining 
emissions reduction targets and roadmaps.  In early June 2022, 
we submitted our near-term targets to SBTi for validation, 
and we have developed a decarbonization roadmap to guide 
emissions reduction actions across our value chain. 
In April 2022, on Earth Day, to make our net zero pledge 
tangible, we launched our first Green Pioneer Stores in Beijing 
and Hangzhou. This initiative sets out our vision and mission 
to reduce the carbon footprint of our operations by utilizing 
renewable energy and advanced low-carbon technologies. 
It also serves as a touch point for customers to experience 
eco-friendly restaurants, encouraging them to embrace more 
sustainable lifestyles.
Additionally, we identified and assessed climate-related 
risks and opportunities in our operations and value chain in 
alignment with the recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD). This provides a 
solid foundation for enhancing the climate resilience of our 
business model. 
We are collaborating with stakeholders across our value chain 
to drive meaningful progress towards a circular economy, and 
we are leveraging our programs as opportunities to build a 
green and sustainable consumption model in the restaurant 
industry. In 2021, we expanded our 'Food Bank' program, 
which provides unsold products to neighboring residents in 
need, to cover 120 KFC restaurants in 27 cities across China. 
We continued to expand our Conversion of Used Cooking Joey  Wat 
Yum China Holdings, Inc.Oil initiative and to seek ways to power our logistics fleets 
with biodiesel. By the end of 2021, 325 restaurants in Sichuan 
province had received ISCC certification, including KFC, Pizza 
Hut, and Taco Bell stores. Through innovative packaging design 
and by actively promoting the use of eco-friendly materials, we 
were able to reduce plastic packaging by 9,300 tons in 2021. 
In these uncertain times, we feel it is especially important 
to shoulder our responsibilities as a good corporate 
citizen, supporting our employees and giving back to our 
communities. 
Adhering to the 'People First' principle, we released the Yum 
China Human Rights Policy and Occupational Health and 
Safety Policy, reiterating our commitments to create a 'Fair, 
Care and Pride' workplace. Additionally, as a token of our 
appreciation of our front-line employees, who have risen to 
meet the challenges of the pandemic, we have upgraded 
the medical insurance coverage of our eligible Restaurant 
General Managers (RGMs), restaurant management teams 
and supervisors. These enhanced benefits are expected to 
cover around 100,000 frontline employees and their family 
members. In recognition of our continuous efforts to create 
an industry-leading sustainable workplace, the Top Employers 
Institute named Yum China a Top Employer China for the 
fourth consecutive year. We were the only restaurant company 
among the top 20 employers.
We are committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive 
working environment for all, including under-privileged 
groups, and to helping employees realize their full potential. 
In 2021, our 'Angel Restaurants' continued to provide gainful 
job opportunities for employees with disabilities. I am very 
proud that we offered eight of our KFC 'angel employees' 
the opportunity to support the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics 
on behalf of Yum China. They provided catering services to 
athletes from around the globe, demonstrating the Olympic 
spirit and our brand vitality.
We firmly believe in giving back to the communities in which 
we work and live. Throughout the pandemic, we have ensured 
the continuity of vital services by keeping our restaurants open 
wherever possible. Our employees volunteered to work hand 
in hand with local communities to provide help and support, 
from delivering nutritious and delicious meals to medical 
workers and frontline volunteers to providing shelter for 
citizens impacted by heavy flooding. Children are always close to our hearts. Our One Yuan Donation 
program has supported the health and growth of children in 
remote rural areas for 14 years. In 2021, the program developed 
a Charity E-Shop to provide a more engaging way to interact 
with millions of Yum China's customers and popularize the 
concept of 'Everyone does good' . In addition, we officially 
launched the Digital Classroom program to support rural 
education, as part of our commitment to rural revitalization. 
We provided digital equipment to primary schools located 
in remote areas and offered programming classes to help 
children in rural areas get access to high-quality education 
essential for a better future. 
As the largest restaurant company in China, food safety 
is always our No.1 priority. Having a strong and reliable 
supply chain to ensure food safety is critical to surviving the 
pandemic. We continue to increase investment in digitalization 
and innovative solutions to increase food safety visibility and 
traceability from farm to fork. A Supply Chain Data Integration 
(SCDI) platform, launched in 2021, is transforming the way we 
manage food safety through advanced digital technologies, 
such as AI. Additionally, in response to growing consumer 
demand for nutritious and delicious food, in 2021 we launched 
the 'Fruit and Vegetable 100+' program simultaneously across 
multiple brands to promote balanced diets and healthy 
lifestyles by offering customers more fruit and vegetable 
options. 
Over the past year, we have focused on staying agile, and we 
have relied on our resilient business model to overcome the 
many near-term challenges presented by the pandemic. As we 
look ahead, we are committed to working even more closely 
with all our stakeholders to continue to transform and find 
innovative solutions for sustainable growth. Together, I believe 
we will continue to make meaningful progress towards a more 
sustainable future. 
Yum China Sustainability Report 202105 04
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Highlights from 2021
Achievement towards Goals Indices and Rankings
Pillar Goals and Commitments Status
Food safety and quality audit covers 100% of 
restaurants and logistics centersAchieved
Food safety and quality training covers 100% of 
employees in offices, restaurants, and logistics centersAchieved
Food safety assessment covers 100% of food and food 
contact packaging suppliersAchieved
Commit to setting SBT*, in line with SBTi** criteria Near-term targets submitted to SBTi on June 8, 2022
Reach net-zero value chain emissions by 2050 Making progress
All newly built restaurants to comply with the Yum 
China Green Building StandardsAchieved
10% reduction of average restaurant water 
consumption by 2025 as compared to the 2017 
baselineAchieved
10% reduction of our food waste per restaurant by 
2030 as compared to the 2020 baseline Making progress
30% reduction in non-degradable plastic packaging 
weight by 2025 as compared to the 2019 baselineMaking progress
100% of customer-facing plastic based packaging is 
recyclableAchieved
100% of FSC***-certified paper packaging by 2025 Making progress
100% of purchased palm oil is RSPO**** certified Achieved
At least 50% of our employees are female Achieved
At least 50% of all employees hired, trained, 
promoted, and retained are femaleAchieved
Over 1.5% of full-time jobs are offered to people with 
disabilities.Achieved
100% of critical suppliers are covered by Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) auditAchieved
Our employees volunteer no less than 1.5 million 
hours per yearAchieved
*Science-based targets
**Science Based Targets initiative
***Forest Stewardship Council
****Roundtable on Sustainable Palm OilFood
Environment
People
CommunityYum China received the best score in the Restaurant & Leisure Facilities 
Industry in the S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA) 2021
Yum China was selected as a member of both Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 
(DJSI): World Index (DJSI World) and Emerging Market Index (DJSI Emerging 
Markets) for the second consecutive year and is the only company from 
mainland China selected as a member of DJSI World
Yum China received a Gold Class Award in the Sustainability Yearbook 2022 by 
S&P Global
Yum China participated in the CDP questionnaire for the first year on Climate 
Change, Forests, and Water SecurityYum China has been named for the fourth consecutive year to the Bloomberg 
Gender-Equality Index (GEI) and is one of only three companies from mainland 
China included in the latest GEI
Yum China was certified by Top Employers Institute as a Top Employer China for 
the fourth consecutive year and is the only restaurant company named among 
the top 20 employersYum China received an 'A' rating in MSCI ESG Rating for 2021, being one 
of only two restaurant companies to receive an 'A' rating
07 06
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Suppliers Logistics RestaurantsAbout Us
Yum China Holdings, Inc. is a licensee of Yum! Brands in 
mainland China. It has exclusive rights in mainland China to 
KFC, China's leading quick-service restaurant brand, Pizza 
Hut, the leading casual dining restaurant brand in China 
and, subject to achieving certain agreed upon milestones, 
Taco Bell, a California-based restaurant chain serving 
We focus on our stakeholders and our impact across the entire value chain.Our Value Chain
as of March 31, 2022restaurants 12,117innovative Mexican-inspired food. Yum China also owns the 
Little Sheep, Huang Ji Huang and COFFii & JOY concepts 
outright. In addition, Yum China has partnered with Lavazza 
to explore and develop the Lavazza coffee shop concept in 
China. The Company had 12,117 restaurants in over 1,700 
cities at the end of March 2022.
Upstream Suppliers Customers
cities 1,700+
as of March 31, 2022
Sustainable Supply ChainSustainable 
RestaurantsSustainable 
Community
We source all of 
our raw materials 
responsibly to 
build a sustainable 
supply chain and 
contribute to 
the sustainable 
development of 
agriculture and 
animal husbandry.We focus on 
our suppliers' 
social and 
environmental 
impact and strive 
to collaboratively 
build a 
responsible 
supply chain with 
our partners.We aim to 
reduce the 
carbon footprint 
associated with 
the transportation 
of our purchased 
materials and 
products to and 
from logistics 
centers.We are committed to 
providing customers 
with safe, nutritious, 
and healthy food of the 
highest quality while 
continuing to reduce 
the environmental 
impact of our 
restaurant operations 
through the promotion 
of climate action and 
circular economy.We build our 
customers' awareness 
of food safety, 
nutrition and health, 
and environmental 
protection through 
public education while 
encouraging more 
sustainable lifestyles.
Always Do the Right Thing
Customer Mania
Restaurant General Manager (RGM) No.1Founder's MentalityThe World's Most 
Innovative Pioneer in the 
Restaurant IndustryLet's Make Every Life 
Taste Beautiful 
Stay Curious
Innovate to Grow
Collaborate to WinPurpose
Vision
Core Values
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021Yum China Sustainability Report 202109 08Corporate Governance
The business and affairs of the Company are managed under the direction of the Board of Directors. The Board believes that good 
corporate governance is a critical factor in achieving business success and in fulfilling the Board's responsibilities to stockholders. 
The Board believes that its practices align management and stockholder interests. Governance Structure
Yum China's Code of Conduct was adopted to emphasize the Company's 
commitment to the highest standards of business conduct. The Code of 
Conduct sets forth specific policies in areas most relevant to the Company, 
including food safety and product quality, gifts, and Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act (FCPA). The Code of Conduct also includes information and procedures 
for employees to report ethical or accounting concerns, misconduct or 
violations of the Code of Conduct in a confidential manner.
The Code of Conduct applies to all directors and employees of the 
Company. All employees of the Company are required, on an annual basis, 
to complete the Yum China Code of Conduct Questionnaire and certify 
in writing that they have read and understand the Code of Conduct. In 
addition, Yum China organizes employees to complete Code of Conduct  
online training every year. The training series includes the Code of Conduct 
online questionnaire, Code of Conduct, gift policy, authorization policy, 
FCPA , information security, anti-harassment, and understanding and 
avoiding insider trading. The Company requires employees to complete 
corresponding training within the specified period. In 2021, all target 
employees have completed relevant training.Business Ethics
Every quarter, we conduct conflict-of-interest checks to identify and avoid 
misconducts that would conflict with the Company's interests, such as 
related party transactions. Each supplier is also required by Yum China to 
sign the Supplier Code of Conduct  to ensure that they comply with the legal 
requirements and follow business ethics when doing business with us. 
We encourage our employees and suppliers to participate in building 
our business ethics and compliance culture. We set up a comprehensive 
whistleblower mechanism, with multiple complaints and reporting channels 
for our employees and suppliers. We have a dedicated investigation team 
to review and handle business ethics issues at all levels and investigate all 
parties' reports and complaints to identify misconducts promptly. Based on 
applicable laws and regulations, we specify the requirements in the Code 
of Conduct that we are obligated to maintain strict confidentiality on the 
whistleblowers' personal information and the reports they provided during 
the entire process of every investigation. Any form of retaliation by anyone 
against the whistleblowers is strictly prohibited. Once the investigation 
is completed, we take remedial and disciplinary measures based on the 
severity of the misconduct, including but not limited to disciplinary actions, 
fines, termination of the labor contract, and reporting to judicial authorities. 
Material violations of the Code of Conduct incidents will be reported to the 
Company's senior management and the Board.
Yum China Complaint and Reporting Channels for Non-complianceChina: 400-8-801-346
US: 1-800-241-5689Employee Complaint and Integrity Compliance 
Reporting System (Anonymity protected): 
www.yumchina.com/compliance
Whistleblowing Supplier Reporting Platform:  
www.yumchina.com/chuishaorenSubmit directly to the 
relevant department or 
person in chargeTelephone Hotline (24/7) Web Platform MailThe Nominating and Governance Committee seeks to recommend 
nominees that bring a unique perspective to the Board in order 
to contribute to the collective diversity of the Board. The Board 
believes that having directors of diverse backgrounds helps 
the Board better oversee the Company's management and 
operations and assess risks and opportunities for the Company's 
business model from a variety of perspectives. Under our Board 
Diversity Policy, diversity is broadly construed to mean a variety 
of perspectives, skills, personal and professional experiences and 
<50 yrs Male 61-70 yrss 50-60 yrs Female >70 yrssBoard Diversity
The following charts summarize the diversity of our directors.backgrounds, and other characteristics represented in both visible 
and non-visible ways that include, but are not limited to, age, 
gender, race, and nationality. As a part of the director nominating 
process, the Nominating and Governance Committee considers 
several factors to ensure the entire Board collectively embraces a 
wide variety of characteristics. Each director nominee will generally 
exhibit different and varying degrees of these characteristics. 
With respect to the Company's current directors, the Company 
also benefits from the diversity inherent from differences in Board 
member age, gender, race, and nationality. Thirty percent of 
directors are women.
Age Diversity Tenure Diversity Gender Diversity1-2 yrs >5 yrs 3-5 yrs10% 10%
30%
30%30%
70% 60%20%
40%
The Board has four standing committees
Audit Committee Compensation Committee Nominating and Governance 
CommitteeFood Safety and Sustainability 
Committee
 Independent Board Chairman
 9 of 10 directors are independent
 Annual election of all directors
 Majority voting policy for elections of directors in uncontested elections
 Proxy access for director nominees by stockholders
 99% director attendance at Board and committee meetings in 2021
 Board Diversity Policy
 Directors with experience, qualifications, and skills across a wide range of public and private companies
 Directors reflect diversity of age, gender, race, and nationality
  Average director age of 56 as of April 14, 2022
 Independent and non-management directors may generally not stand for re-election after age 75
 Stockholders holding at least 25% of the Company's outstanding shares have the right to call special meetings
 Active stockholder engagement
 No shareholder rights plan (also known as a poison pill)
 Director and executive officer stock ownership policies
 Policy prohibiting hedging or other speculative trading of Company stock
 Policy regarding resignation if any director experiences a significant change in professional roles and responsibilities
 Board access to senior management and independent advisors
Highlights of our corporate governance policies and practices are described below:
Director 
Independence
Director 
Elections and 
Attendance
Board 
Refreshment 
and Diversity
Other 
Governance 
Practices
YUMC FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX11
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Oversee practices, policies, procedures, 
strategies, and initiatives relating to 
sustainability (including environmental, supply 
chain, and food nutrition and health)
Track the implementation of material issues, 
evaluate sustainability risks, and develop risk 
management strategies and measures
Develop sustainability action plans and promote 
the implementation of key projects
Carry out sustainability projects and initiatives The Food Safety and 
Sustainability CommitteeBoard of Directors
The Sustainability 
Committee Yum China 
Management Team
Sustainability Team and 
cross-functional teamsSustainability 
Task Force
Operations Teams
Yum China's 
Sustainability 
Management 
StructureSustainability Strategy
Yum China's operations have substantial economic, social, and environmental impact as the largest restaurant company in 
China. Communities in which we operate increasingly demand that we incorporate sustainability into our operations. We are 
actively doing our part to address global topics, such as climate change, plastic pollution, food safety, and social responsibility. 
We are dedicated to providing our customers with safe and nutritious food while promoting social and environmental 
sustainability. We strive to go the extra mile to improve the quality of the food we eat, the water we drink, and the air we 
breathe.
Our sustainability strategy is core and fully integrated into the Company's long-term business growth strategy - 'Sustainable 
Platform for Growth' . Our contributions toward a sustainable ecosystem are reflected by the commitments and initiatives within 
our three strategic pillars of Food, Environment, and People.Sustainability Governance
Yum China recognizes a systematic and comprehensive management mechanism is the cornerstone of 
integrating sustainable development into the Company's operation and management. Yum China has 
an established governance mechanism on sustainability matters from the Board to Operation Teams. We 
have a Sustainability Officer supported by a full-time sustainability team.
At the Board level, the Food Safety and Sustainability Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the 
Company's sustainability matters, including environmental, supply chain, and food nutrition and health. In 
2021, Yum China Management Team and the Food Safety and Sustainability Committee supported signing 
and submitting the Business Ambition for 1.5 °C Commitment Letter to the SBTi, making commitment to 
reaching net-zero value chain emissions by 2050. In 2022, our Management Team and the Food Safety and 
Sustainability Committee approved Yum China near-term science-based GHG emissions reduction targets 
for SBTi submission.
Yum China also established a Sustainability Committee, which is a management committee responsible 
for evaluating sustainability risks and monitoring the implementation of key initiatives and regularly 
reports to the Food Safety and Sustainability Committee. It is comprised of selected Leadership Team 
members, the Sustainability Officer, and cross-functional teams. The Sustainability Committee members 
meet quarterly to track the implementation of material topics, evaluate sustainability risks, and develop 
risk management strategies and measures. 
To effectively assist the Sustainability Committee in implementing sustainable initiatives,  Yum China's 
Sustainability Task Force was established, which includes cross-functional teams and a sustainability team. 
It is responsible for taking actions to achieve our sustainability goals under three strategic pillars of Food, 
Environment, and People. The Sustainability Task Force monitors current and emerging climate-related 
regulations, develops sustainability action plans, and promotes the implementation of key sustainability 
initiatives. The Operations Teams are responsible for implementing projects and initiatives relevant to 
sustainable restaurants, sustainable supply chain, and sustainable community to support Yum China's 
sustainability strategy.
Creating A Responsible Ecosystem
We CARE about 
our customers with
safe & nutritious foods
Supply Chain Food Safety 
& Quality
Animal Welfare
Genetically Modified 
OrganismsPackaging
Food Loss & Waste
Water
Climate Action
Green BuildingOccupational Health & Safety
Human Rights & Labor Practice
Information Security & Data Privacy
Employee Training & Development
Diversity & Equal Opportunity
Community Care
Poverty Alleviation
Public Awareness & Education
Care for Special GroupsWe CARE about
our environment and 
minimizing our footprintWe CARE about
our people with
'Fair, Care and Pride'Food Environment People
Sustainable Restaurants
Sustainable Supply Chain
Sustainable Community
Corporate Governance and Culture
Business Ethics Customer Relationship ManagementSupply Chain Social ImpactSupply Chain 
Environmental ImpactRestaurant Food Safety & 
Quality
Nutrition & Health
10Yum China Sustainability Report 2021Yum China Sustainability Report 202113 12
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Stakeholder engagement is essential for Yum China to timely adopt constructive suggestions from all parties. We closely engage with 
different stakeholders and incorporate constructive opinions and suggestions in the future direction of our sustainability efforts.Materiality assessment is the principal step of sustainability disclosure for Yum China. In 2017, we initiated the materiality 
assessment and prioritized 28 material issues based on the materiality assessment approach of 'review, identification, prioritization, 
and verification' . After then, every year, we revisit the material topics to make sure the topic aligns with our operations and 
stakeholders' concerns.  
In 2020, we continued the materiality assessment approach and refined the key topics. We sent online questionnaires to various 
stakeholders and collected over 4,400 valid responses, helping us better understand their expectations and demands. Through 
analysis and validation of the results, we have identified 23 key material topics across the pillars of Food, Environment, and 
People, and have defined the content and boundary of each material topic. For more details on the materiality assessment, 
please refer to the Yum China 2020 Sustainability Report. 
For 2021, upon reviewing the results of the previous materiality assessment, we conclude that the topics and their materiality 
are still applicable to Yum China during the reporting period.
Results of Materiality AssessmentReview previous year's 
materiality assessment 
results
Conduct peer brands' 
benchmarking
Conduct stakeholder 
analysis
Review changes in 
strategy and value chain Conduct internal 
& external 
stakeholders' 
engagement and 
interviews
Identify and adjust 
material topicsPrioritize according to 
internal and external 
expectationsVerify material topics 
identification by top-
level management 
and external experts
Finalize the revised 
material topicsStakeholder Engagement Approaches Expectations and Areas of ConcernsStakeholder Engagement Materiality Assessment
Franchisors, Shareholders, and 
Investors
Yum! Brands, institutional 
investors, ESG rating agenciesAnnual Shareholder Meetings
Annual and Quarterly Reports
Press Releases
Investor Conferences
Emails and Telephone Communications
Investor SurveyReturns on Investment
Information Disclosure
ESG Management and Performance
Government and Regulators
Food safety regulators, central 
and local governmentRegular Conferences
Seminars
Written Replies to Public InquiriesFood Safety and Quality
Environmental Compliance
Contribution to the Development of Healthy 
China
Poverty Alleviation
Industrial Development
Support for Vulnerable Groups
Board, Management, and 
EmployeesBoard Meetings
Management Meetings
Employee Communication and Feedback 
Platforms
Employee Engagement Surveys
RGM Conventions
Founders' DayGroup overall Sustainability Performance
Fair Working Environment
Capability Improvement and Development 
Opportunities
Welfare and Security
Flexible Working Time
Customers
Organizations and individuals 
who purchase products from 
Yum ChinaDirect Communications in Restaurants
Customer Satisfaction Surveys and 
Feedback
Customer Service Centers
Social Media
Online ServiceSafe, Reliable, and Delicious Food
Good Dining Experience and Food Service
Supply Chain Partners
Suppliers, logistics service 
providers, construction service 
providersBusiness Review Meetings
Management Team Dialogues
Supplier Visits
Supply Chain Partners Conventions
Supply Chain Sustainability WorkshopBusiness Development
Management Capability Building
Fostering Development of the Industry
Supply Chain Sustainability Support
Franchisees
Yum China's brand franchiseesBusiness Review Meetings
Annual Franchise ConventionsCapability Building and Development Support
Brand Development
Associations and NGOs
Industry associations, 
institutes, universities, and NGOsWorking Committees, Groups, and 
Meetings
Seminars and Lectures
Duties in AssociationsFostering Industry Development
Communities
The communities where Yum 
China operatesCommunity Visits
Regular Dialogues
Volunteer ActivitiesContribution to Communities
Employee Volunteers
Review Identification Prioritization Verification1 2 3 4
Yum China's materiality assessment approach
Internal ExpectationsExternal Expectations
12 Business Ethics
13 Supply Chain Social lmpact
14 Human Rights & Labor PracticesPeople1 Restaurant Food Safety & Quality 
2 Supply Chain Food Safety & Quality 
3 Nutrition & Health
4 Genetically Modified Organisms 
5 Animal Welfare
6 Packaging
7 Supply Chain Environmental lmpact 
8 Food Loss & Waste 
9 Water
10 Climate Action 
11 Green BuildingFood
Environment
15 Employee Training & Development 
16 Occupational Health & Safety
17 Information Security & Data Privacy 18 Diversity & Equal Opportunity
19 Customer Relationship Management 
20 Poverty Alleviation 21 Community Care
22 Public Awareness & Education 
23 Care for Special Groups1
2
3
456
78
10
111213
16 15
17 18
192021
22
2314Moderate High Very high
915 14
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
 YUMC
Yum China has been committed to providing customers 
with delicious, safe, nutritious, and high-quality food 
for more than 30 years. Food safety is our top priority. 
We embed the food safety culture in our approaches 
from corporate governance to the entire value chain 
from farm to fork. We are passionate about exploring 
technology enabled food safety management from 
suppliers, logistics centers to restaurants and delivery. 
And we use cutting-edge digital technology to build an 
industry leading intelligent and digitalized supply chain. 
We embrace national nutrition and health policies, 
and have been striving for product innovation and 
other relevant measures to deliver a greater variety of 
balanced, nutritious food to our customers. We actively 
promote healthy industry development through 
collaboration with various stakeholders, fostering 
progress in social governance and public awareness 
of food safety, nutrition, and health, so as to create a 
trustworthy ecosystem.
Highly Relevant
Moderately Relevant
Food
Restaurant Food 
Safety & QualitySupply Chain Food 
Safety & QualityNutrition & Health Trending issuesPrimary Focus16
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMC
Food safety attracts wide attention in China and internationally. The Food Safety Law intensifies government supervision and 
companies' responsibilities in food safety
The Outline of Healthy China 2030 Plan, National Nutrition Plan 2017-2030, Scientific Report on Chinese Dietary Guideline (2021), 
and other policies and guidelines advocate balanced and nutritious diets and healthy lifestyles
Investors have higher expectations of information disclosure and transparency in food safety, quality, and nutrition
Customers have a growing demand for safe, healthy food, and a balanced diet
Food safety and quality audit covers 100% of our restaurants and logistics centers
Food safety and quality training covers 100% of employees in offices, restaurants, and logistics centers
Food safety assessment covers 100% of food and food contact packaging suppliersYum China Sustainability Report 2021
16
 17Implement a standardized food safety system at every restaurant
Ensure all our suppliers comply with relevant laws, regulations, and Yum China's food safety standards
Diversify menus with more choices of delicious and nutritious food
Promote food safety management, support education and research in the restaurant industry, and build public awareness of 
food safety, nutrition, and healthy dietOpportunities and Challenges
Goals and Commitments
Key Actions
Build a Value Chain that Protects Food Safety
Food safety and quality are the cornerstones of our corporate 
culture and a top priority for everyone at Yum China since 
the incorporation of our business over three decades ago. We 
are committed to setting the highest standards among the 
industry, staying true to our values, and consistently doing 
the right thing. Given the nature of our entire value chain 
- including the hundreds of suppliers and their upstream 
farming and planting bases, our 32 logistics centers, and 
over 11,000 restaurants by the end of 2021 - any food safety 
risk may undermine our business and jeopardize customer trust that we value so greatly. To fulfill our commitment to 
protect food safety from farm to fork, we have developed 
a holistic food safety and quality management system that 
is embedded in our value chain, involving all participants 
from upstream, suppliers, logistics centers, and restaurants 
to delivery, to build trust in every bite. We also engage 
with various stakeholders to promote social governance in 
food safety, nutrition, and health to foster healthy industry 
development.
Food safety is Yum 
China's top priority. We are dedicated to
building an advanced
food safety system
and strive to provide
customers with safe
food.We take on additional 
social responsibilities 
to play a leading and 
exemplary role in the 
industry.Food Safety Commitments19 18
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
 YUMC
Yum China's development is supported by an in-house and integrated supply chain management team that includes Food 
Safety, Quality Assurance, Engineering, Procurement Management, Logistics, and Supply Chain System. As of the end of 2021, 
the supply chain management team included more than 1,400 professionals.Food safety and compliance 
management
Regulations and standards 
enforcement
Risk monitoring, risk alerts and 
assessmentsSupplier food safety and quality 
management for food ingredients, 
packaging and smallwares
Logistics center food safety audit and 
management 
Restaurant food safety audit and 
managementEquipment innovation
Packaging innovation
Back of house model 
innovaton
Raw material (food and non-
food) and services procurement
Supplier recruitment and 
managementInventory ordering and management
Warehousing cold chain logisticsSupply chain financial and 
management reporting
Supply and demand forecasting 
Supply chain digitalization projectsRoles & ResponsibilitiesFood Safety
Procurement
ManagementQuality Assurance
LogisticsEngineering
Supply Chain
SystemFood Safety Governance
To ensure the development and effective implementation of food safety management processes and standards, Yum China 
established a holistic food safety management mechanism ranging from the Board of Directors/Food Safety and Sustainability 
Committee to functional management teams. This governance system provides comprehensive oversight and effective 
execution of various management systems, measures, and standards to ensure food safety and compliance.
The Board of Directors oversees the Company's risk management 
framework
Food Safety and Sustainability Committee under the Board of Directors:
Established in 2017 and currently comprising four directors assisting 
the Board of Directors in its oversight of the Company's food safety and 
sustainability-related practices, programs, processes, and initiativesBoard of 
Directors / Food 
Safety and 
Sustainability 
Committee
Yum China 
Management 
Team
Supply Chain 
Management 
Team
Quality 
Assurance Team
Brand Restaurant 
Operation Teams
Yum! Brands / Yum 
China Audit TeamsConduct food safety audits on suppliers, logistics centers, and restaurants
Food safety/quality auditRestaurant duty manager inspections
District manager patrol inspectionsCompliance Oversight Committee:
The committee comprises leaders from multiple functions, such as Legal, 
Internal Audit, Supply Chain Management, Public Affairs, Information 
Technology, Finance, and Human Resources
The committee meets regularly to assess risks, monitor internal controls, 
and determine strategy/approach to promote compliance
Supply Chain Risk Assessment Meeting:
Quality Assurance, Food Safety, Procurement Management, and when 
necessary, involve other functions
Assess risk in areas such as suppliers, logistics centers, and restaurants and 
formulate preventive measuresExperts from 
various fields 
are invited 
to share best 
practices 
to drive 
continuous 
improvement 
of Yum China's 
food safety 
management 
processes. Yum China 
Food Safety 
Advisory 
Committee
Food Safety Comes First
Yum China's corporate culture places a high emphasis on 
food safety. For our employees and franchisees, we improve 
their food safety awareness through food safety training, 
assessment, and reward & penalty mechanisms. For our 
suppliers, we guide them to integrate food safety values into 
their employees' conduct, laying a solid foundation for food safety management. We established the Quality Assurance 
Management Institute in 2020, a platform to provide 
comprehensive and systematic food safety and quality 
training, and give technical and professional consultation to 
our employees, suppliers, and industry peers upon request 
to enhance their food safety management expertise.
For office employees, we require all new employees to read and 
sign the Yum China Code of Conduct Confirmation Letter. We also 
conduct online food safety courses to strengthen employees' 
understanding of food safety laws, regulations, and Yum China 
standards. We require new restaurant employees to read and 
sign Employee Manual Confirmation Letter, take online courses 
on food safety, watch the video on employee compliance, and 
undergo stringent on-the-job training to help them get familiar 
with national food regulations to better understand and 
observe the Company's food safety standards. Cultivate Yum China Food Safety Culture
We require and guide our franchisees, our important partners, 
to cultivate the food safety culture in their organizations. 
Franchisees must sign the Franchise Policy Manual upon joining 
and commit to complying with Yum China's Operations Manual, 
Yum China's Code of Conduct, and safety and health standards. 
In 2021, we updated the food safety training materials for the 
franchisees to reinforce their understanding of relevant food 
safety laws and regulations, Yum China's food safety policies, 
and industry trending issues. Refresh training and assessments 
are conducted for all existing office employees, restaurant 
employees, and franchisees once every year.20
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMC
21
IllustrationFirst Yum China Food Safety Cultural Festival
In June 2021, we held the first Yum China Food Safety Cultural Festival. We organized more than 170 food safety 
activities, such as food safety workshops, lunch break lectures, food safety debates, food safety quiz, and 'My story 
with Food Safety' essay contest. Every Yum China employee's participation demonstrated our belief in upholding food 
safety culture and passion for sharing food safety knowledge.
Upstream Suppliers Management
To ensure food safety and product compliance right from 
the source, we require our suppliers to establish upstream 
suppliers' approval and monitoring procedures to effectively 
identify and manage potential food safety risks associated 
with their raw materials.  
Poultry is one of our major food materials. We strengthen 
source management and invest enormous efforts in 
developing a holistic control system for the broiler industry, 
from breeding to slaughtering and meat processing. We 
have established an electronic farm information system 
to register and monitor the use of veterinary drugs and 
information of Yum China approved poultry farm. At the 
same time, we conduct unannounced farm inspections and 
raw material food safety monitoring tests to grade upstream 
suppliers' performance. *Tomato & pepper bases mainly plant tomatoes, cherry tomatoes, 
green peppers, cayenne peppers and cucumbers.For fruits and vegetables, we are working with our suppliers 
to develop a sustainable agricultural ecosystem and to 
drive improvements in farm management systems. We 
promote the implementation of Yum China Good Agricultural 
Practices (Yum China GAP) to require farmers and producers 
to take scientific, prudent and responsible approaches, and 
implement systematic control measures right from planting 
farm management, in order to effectively preventing the 
occurrence of food safety issues. By the end of 2021, Yum 
China GAP had 100% coverage in butterhead lettuce bases 
and tomato & pepper bases*.
Yum China incorporates food safety culture into the Yum 
China Food Safety and Quality Audit and the Yum China 
Supplier Manual, requiring all suppliers to establish food 
safety culture programs and commit to implementing and 
maintaining food safety culture at all levels. To further drive 
our food safety and quality philosophy, we conduct supplier 
quality management seminars to interpret regulations 
and standards, and to share best practices and studies Drive Supplier Food Safety Culture Development
on trending issues such as intelligent quality control and 
process innovation. We coach our suppliers to use scientific 
tools and methods to integrate the food safety culture into 
their food safety management, and to create a working 
environment that encourages full participation in such 
practices. In 2021, we conducted 28 quality management 
seminars to improve suppliers' management capabilities and 
raise their productivity. 
Food Safety 
Cultural FestivalFood Safety and Quality Management Across the Value Chain
Traceability System
Upstream 
Management 
Requirements
Farm Register System
Broiler Veterinary 
Drug Registry and 
Expert Review System
Upstream Assessment 
SystemUpstream Suppliers
Incoming Checks
Cold-chain 
Management
Pest Control
Employee Training
Food Safety and 
Quality AuditsLogistics
Operating Standards
Employee Training
Food Safety and 
Quality Audits
Delivery Platform and 
Riders Management
Food Protection SealsRestaurants/Delivery
Supplier Approval 
System
Material Specifications
Supplier Training
Supplier Performance 
Evaluation
Food Safety and 
Quality Audits
Yum China Food 
Safety Sampling TestsSuppliers23 22Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
 FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMC
Supplier Management
We adopt rigorous approval processes for new suppliers, including risk assessments, qualification and compliance checks, and factory 
approval audits. We conduct regular reviews to verify whether the suppliers' food safety and quality management systems continuously 
meet our requirements. We encourage our suppliers to obtain food safety and product quality management certifications. 
Yum China has developed a comprehensive performance management system to regularly evaluate suppliers' performance in food 
safety and quality. We conduct quarterly assessments of our suppliers' performance and develop measures for suppliers to drive 
continuous improvement. Based on the assessment results, we grade suppliers as T1, T2, T3, and T4, with T1 being the best tier. For 
T2 and T3 suppliers, we coach them and provide support to improve their management capability. For T4 suppliers, we suspend or 
terminate the contract, and these suppliers will only be allowed back as our suppliers after undertaking the same vetting process as new 
suppliers. For suppliers of raw materials with lower food safety risks, we encourage them to obtain GFSI certification and/or assessment 
for food safety and regulatory compliance.
Restaurant and Delivery ManagementLogistics Management
Yum China operates a tailor-made, world-class logistics 
management system to secure food safety and provide efficient 
and reliable logistics services for our restaurants. By the end of 
2021, we utilized 32 logistics centers to distribute supplies to 
company-owned and franchised stores, as well as to third-party 
customers. Our supply chain strategy of working with multiple 
suppliers, as well as building a vast logistics network, allows for 
continuous supply of products in the event that supply from an 
individual supplier or logistics center becomes unfeasible.
Each of our logistics centers has a full-time quality assurance 
specialist responsible for inspecting storage facilities and the 
receipt, distribution, and unloading of goods. We also conduct 
regular audits and routine inspections of our logistics service 
providers (including warehouse and transportation) to verify 
that their food safety and quality management systems meet 
our requirements. In 2021, we conducted about 191 food 
safety and quality audits and over 2,300 routine inspections for 
warehouse and transportation service providers.
By drawing on the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) certification standard, extracting the essence of the 
audit requirements of Yum China, and integrating the supplier management specifications and special 
control requirements of each category, we updated our Yum China's Supplier Tracking Assessment and 
Recognition (STAR) audit standard.
We conducted STAR training to help suppliers understand Yum China's most up-to-date requirements.
We carry out STAR audits, to verify whether the suppliers' food safety and quality management systems 
meet our requirements. In 2021, we conducted over 200 food safety audits and over 200 unannounced 
supplier quality audits.
In addition to suppliers' in-house testing, Yum China develops an annual raw material food safety 
sampling plan and conducts random tests to ensure compliance with relevant standards. In 2021, we 
conducted food safety sampling tests on over 300 key raw materials, involving 162 suppliers.
Restaurant 
Operation 
ManagementYum China has established industry-leading restaurant operating standards and procedures covering raw 
material receiving, storage, thawing and cooking, shelf-life management, personal hygiene, and utensil and 
equipment cleaning and disinfection. These ensure that all our restaurants implement consistent food safety 
standards and provide food with consistent quality and taste. We conduct risk assessments at our restaurants 
every year to identify potential food safety and quality risks and take effective measures to mitigate risks and 
eliminate hazards. We also conduct risk assessments for new products, new restaurant layouts, equipment, 
and store operations to ensure compliance with food safety and quality requirements.
Our Quality Assurance function conducts regular unannounced Operational Excellence Compliance (OEC) 
Audits on all restaurants, covering food safety, product quality, and customer service. We also conduct 
regular quality assessments of key menu products and microbiological sampling and testing of food 
utensils, tableware, water, ice, and related products to ensure compliance. In 2021, the Quality Assurance 
function performed over 19,400 OEC Audits, approximately 4,500 quality assessments on key products, and 
microbiological tests on over 111,000 samples. Audits 
and 
Inspections
We have established our delivery service teams for KFC and Pizza Hut. We require all third-party delivery partners 
to sign and strictly implement a letter of commitment on the food safety and quality practice of delivery food, 
which stipulates clear requirements for regulatory compliance, staff management, catering, delivery facilities, 
equipment and strict management of third-party platforms.Delivery 
Management24
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021Trending Issues for the Food Sector
We continuously monitor changes in policies, laws and 
regulations, as well as trends in food industry hot topics. We 
pay close attention to emerging industry challenges such 
as animal welfare, genetically modified organisms (GMO), 
foodborne illnesses, food additives, and veterinary drugs 
Establish a collaborative  
platform to continuously 
promote industry 
cooperation and animal 
welfare management
Develop a series of Yum 
China Animal Welfare 
Policies and promote 'Five 
Freedoms' for animal 
welfare
Implement animal welfare 
audits for broiler farming 
and slaughtering
Suppliers must provide 
documentary evidence 
that the food additives 
comply with relevant 
standards to strengthen 
regulations awareness 
and self-inspection 
mechanism
Promptly notify 
suppliers of the latest 
food-governing laws, 
regulations, and standards 
for their compliance
Conduct sampling tests 
on additives in relevant 
food materials to verify 
complianceEnvironmental Pathogen 
Monitoring Standard was 
issued to guide suppliers 
to establish preventive 
programs and implement 
environmental pathogen 
monitoring plans
Shift the focus of 
hazard analysis from 
finished product tests to 
proactive environmental 
monitoring to prevent 
microbial contaminationsRespect and support Chinese agricultural 
development policies
Comply with Chinese laws and 
regulations on safety evaluation, approval 
and management of genetically modified 
agriculture products, and require our 
suppliers to provide raw materials in 
compliance with national regulations
Monitor new achievements of 
international scientific research and trends 
of Chinese regulations and standards
Starting in 2016, Yum China studied 
antimicrobial drug use trends in the domestic 
broiler industry and took the lead to remove the 
use of antimicrobial drugs important to human 
medicine as growth-promoting agents in broiler 
feed. In 2020, in line with the national plan of 
stopping the use of all growth-promoting drug 
additives in feed (except traditional Chinese 
medicine) issued by the Ministry of Agriculture 
and Rural Affairs, we worked with our domestic 
broiler suppliers to ensure full compliance 
ahead of the national deadline
Developed and implemented a control 
program for domestic broiler suppliers to 
gradually reduce the use of other antimicrobial 
drugs by promoting scientific breeding and 
judicious use of veterinary drugsand pesticides management. We have calibrated our control 
priorities based on the urgency and importance of food 
safety-related risks.
Animal Welfare
Food Additives Pesticide ManagementFoodborne IllnessesGMO
Veterinary Drug Management
Promote the implementation 
of  Yum China GAP in 
upstream vegetable farms
Set up a strict pesticide 
residue monitoring system 
and conduct regular 
pesticide residue tests 
25
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMC27 26
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
 YUMC
iFS
eQA/ QA TimeiQA
SCDIIoT
Intelligent Food Safety (iFS) codified Yum China's over 30 
years of food safety and quality management experience and 
integrated internal and external food safety big data. iFS uses 
technologies and algorithms including Knowledge Graphs, 
natural language processing, and named entity recognition. 
iFS has eight functional modules including but not limited to 
Risk Alert, Risk Assessment, Food Safety-pedia. As a scientific 
and machine learning-based artificial intelligent tool, iFS can 
significantly improve our ability to identify potential risks, enable 
rapid assessment, and enhance proactive risk prevention.
eQA enables online management of the entire value chain from 
farm to fork, including upstream, suppliers, logistics centers, and 
restaurants, on an integrated platform. eQA can automatically 
verify regulatory compliance for food additives used in raw 
materials for new products. It greatly increases our capabilities 
and efficiency in managing suppliers and their products as a data 
integration platform for food safety and quality control. iQA is a critical part of the intelligent supply chain 
management of Yum China. iQA system divides the 
production process into seven data modules and defines 
control points within each module. And key data are 
transmitted to the system in real-time during the production 
cycle. In doing so, we are able to complete the goal of data 
As an enterprise that makes enormous efforts in digital and 
intelligent technology, Yum China has launched a series of 
digitalized business systems. In 2021, we built Supply Chain 
Data Integration (SCDI), a supply chain data platform, to 
integrate data from different business systems and to break 
the data silos between business functions. The introduction 
of SCDI has enabled Yum China to harmonize data formats 
across our complex business functions, as well as improve 
the quality and accuracy of our data. With SCDI, we can 
visualize the supply chain process and accurately locate 
and trace each batch of purchased goods from all channels 
to ensure the transparency of upstream raw material Real-time temperature monitoring in the logistics cold chain is 
essential to ensure the food safety and quality of our products. 
Yum China logistics has built a comprehensive real-time cold 
chain monitoring system, from the temperature of warehouses 
and compressors, to the temperature of products in transit 
and vehicle conditions. The deviation is automatically sent to 
In 2021, we launched mobile application QA Time, focused 
on digitalized online management from logistics centers 
to restaurants. It enables efficient communication, better 
team collaboration, data integration, and information 
synchronization. QA Time makes work easier and enhances the 
problem solving efficiency.interconnectivity and visibility, intelligent real-time 
data collection, timely deviation rectification, and 
efficient traceability of raw material in the value chain. 
By 2021, we have rolled out iQA in more than 200 
suppliers' plants.
information. Through the data consolidation and 
visualized analysis, our management teams could 
better understand the scenarios to quickly respond to 
the business requirements. 
SCDI enabled better efficient and accurate risk 
management through online visualized supply 
chain Key Performance Indicators aggregation. The 
system also improves the ability of supply chain risk 
perception, realizes 'Quick Response' to diversified 
business scenarios, and strengthens the agile and 
resilient supply chain. Digital Call Center (DSC), allowing DSC to contact the 
relevant driver through GPS to rectify the problems. Our 
24/7 round the clock digitalized cold chain management 
system integrates Internet of Things (IoT), big data, cloud 
computing, and other cutting-edge technologies, to 
safeguard food safety. Technology Enabled Food Safety Management
Our vision is to become the world's most innovative pioneer 
in the restaurant industry. In addition to our holistic food 
safety management system, we have upgraded food safety 
management through innovative technology, and built an 
industry-leading intelligent and digitalized supply chain 
Award certificate of the 'First prize of Science and 
Technology Innovation' of the Chinese Food Science and 
Technology Awardmanagement system. The cutting-edge technologies 
enabled us to combine traditional control measures with 
real-time data collection and analysis, key process visibility,  
and deviation rectification to improve efficiencies and 
timeliness of Yum China's food safety management.
24x7coverage Real time monitoringiFS won the 'First prize of Science and Technology Innovation' 
in the Chinese Food Science and Technology Award
DPS + TemperatureProcess data29 28
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
 YUMC
Balanced and Nutritious Meals
We are committed to offering delicious and nutritious food 
choices to our customers as well as promoting a balanced 
and healthy diet. We keep updating our menus to provide a 
great variety of delicious and nutritious food. We continually 
innovate in recipe optimization, abundant ingredients and multiple cooking methods, while maintaining the quality 
and taste our customers expect. In terms of child nutrition, 
we pay particular attention to enhancing the nutritional 
value of our kids meals.
Product Innovation & More Choices
Three Reductions: Reducing the Use of Salt, Sugar, and OilTo meet the growing needs of customers, we continue to carry 
out product innovation and strive to provide customers with 
more nutritious and tasty choices for achieving our collective 
vision of becoming 'The World's Most Innovative Pioneer 
in the Restaurant Industry' . Our dedicated Food Innovation 
Team (FIT) incorporates market feedback to improve our 
product offering in terms of the choice of ingredients, cooking 
methods, and product specifications.
We explore ways to improve the nutritional value of our products. We adhere to the 'three reductions' principle by adjusting the 
use of salt, sugar, and oil. We always care for customers' feedback and conduct regular sensory tests on salinity, sweetness, and 
texture to ensure that our food choices continue to meet our customers' expectations.Based on customer feedback, we enrich our menu choices 
to provide customers with a balanced diet. Meanwhile, we 
launch limited-time offers throughout the year according 
to seasons and festivals. In addition, we provide multiple 
size selections to meet different customers' needs and fit 
different dining occasions. For example, Pizza Hut provides 
9 inches,10 inches, and 12 inches pizza sizes and one person 
meals. 
Through more choices with less sugarReduce SugarThrough recipe upgradeReduce Salt
Through multiple cooking methods 
Through more low-fat choicesReduce OilAbundant Ingredients
We focus on enriching our food ingredients, providing a 
variety of staple protein options including steak, seafood, 
chicken, sausage, and actively increase other food 
ingredients such as grains, fruits and vegetables, beans, and 
nuts. Fruits and vegetables are widely used in all our brands. In 2021, Yum China purchased more than 44,000 tons of 
fruits and vegetables, including lettuce, cucumber, potato, 
celery, green pepper, tomato, onion, covering more than 60 
fruit and vegetable categories.
IllustrationYum China Strengthens its Commitment to Promoting Balanced Diets and Healthy Lifestyles
In 2021, Yum China launched a new campaign to 
promote balanced diets by offering customers more 
fruit and vegetable options, covering 6,000 KFC, Pizza 
Hut and Taco Bell stores nationwide. A core component 
of the campaign is the 'Fruit and Vegetables 100+' 
program that encourages customers to add at least 
100g of fruits and vegetables to their meals. 
'Fruit and Vegetables 100+' Campaign
By the end of 2021
Since 2018, KFC has reduced salt
240 tons
In 2021, KFC and Pizza Hut have reduced sugar
51 tonsUpgraded bread with reduced salt
Over 90% of breakfast menu items and 60% of 
all-day items at KFC and 90% of all-day items at 
Pizza Hut are prepared using multiple cooking 
methods, including roasting, boiling, sautéing, 
and grilling
Zero fat ice cream
Low-fat yogurt replacing traditional cheese foam 
in drinksNon-sweetened milkFor example:
Sugar-free and fiber-rich Pepsi
At the same time, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell have 
also launched a series of new and updated fruit and 
vegetable based products in China, while leveraging 
their digital platforms to raise public awareness of 
nutrition and healthy eating.31
FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
 YUMC
Multiple Cooking Methods
Kids MealsWe enhance the choices and nutritional value of our menu through a variety of cooking methods, including frying, roasting, 
boiling, sautéing, and grilling. By combining modern food preparation technologies with traditional cooking methods, we lock 
in the flavors of our food and maintain consistent quality and taste for our customers.
We followed the Nutrition Guidelines for Meals Offered by the Restaurant Industry to School-Age Children released by the Chinese 
Nutrition Society (CNS) to provide balanced diets in our kids' meals. For example, at KFC, we include eggs, tomatoes, corn stick, 
milk, and other ingredients as our core offering in our kids meals to increase their intake of dietary fiber, vitamins, and minerals.Industry Communication and Public Education
Industry Communication
Yum China actively promotes social governance of food 
safety and elevates public awareness of health.  We work 
closely with the regulators, industry associations, and 
academic community to drive the development of the 
food industry and ensure food safety. At the same time, 
we also play an important role in food safety advocacy and 
education programs.Yum China holds key positions in many influential industry 
organizations such as the Chinese Institute of Food Science 
and Technology, the China Food Information Center, 
China Cuisine Association, China Chain Store & Franchise 
Association, and Shanghai Food Safety Work Federation. 
By collaborating with these associations, we actively bring 
our expertise to industry conferences and seminars, share 
our technical and management knowledge, promote food 
safety, and develop standards. 
IllustrationChina Chain Store and Franchise Industry High Quality Development Forum in Beijing
In June 2021, Yum China participated in the China Chain Store and Franchise Industry High Quality Development 
Forum. In the forum, we engaged in deep dialogues with peers on high quality development practices and restaurant 
chain operations and introduced our achievements in digitalization for food safety such as the iFS.
Public EducationYum China has joined forces with industry peers to provide 
professional opinions on food-related laws and regulations 
during the public consultation stage. We have also 
participated in the development of relevant industry group 
standards. In 2021, Yum China provided suggestions on 11 laws, regulations, and national standards, covering food 
safety-related standards, food testing, and logistic cold chain.
We also contributed to 10 industry and group standards 
covering topics such as delivery, nutrition, and operation 
management.
Yum China has been an active supporter 
of the National Nutrition Week since its 
establishment in 2016, which is a nationwide 
nutrition promotion program jointly initiated 
by the Chinese Nutrition Society and the 
Institute of Nutrition and Health of the Chinese 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention. In 
support of this annual initiative, Yum China 
shared nutritional knowledge on tray liners in 
KFC restaurants across China and has reached 
more than 140 million customers over the 
past six years. The program is also an integral 
component of the National Nutrition Plan 
(2017-2030), contributing to the construction 
of building a healthy China in the new era.National Nutrition WeekThe Scientific Report on Chinese Dietary Guideline issued 
by the Chinese Nutrition Society in 2021 encourages the 
consumption of grains, fiber, and plant-based food. We have 
always had such popular products in KFC and Pizza Hut, such 
as noodles, corn sticks, and fiber-rich and sugar-free cola. 
KFC introduced OATLY's signature oat drink for breakfast and 
coffee menu. It is a good milk substitute for lactose-intolerant 
individuals, and oat is also a lower carbon alternative 
compared to milk. 
As we notice the growing trend of plant-based products, we 
actively respond to customers' needs. Yum China is one of 
the first in the industry to introduce plant-based products 
in China. Since 2020, KFC, Pizza Hut, and Taco Bell have 
introduced various plant-based products and drinks to our 
menus, including but not limited to OATLY latte, plant-based 
beef burgers, plant-based chicken nuggets, plant-based beef 
and plant-based pork tacos. In 2021, KFC sold 2.5 million units 
of plant-based meat products.
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
30
From 2016 to 2021, the program has 
reached over total
customers140 million33 32
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
 YUMC
From August 30 to September 19, 2021, as one of the series 
activities of National Science Popularization Day. Yum China 
collaborated with the Chinese Institute of Food Science and 
Technology on 'Food Safety for Thousands of Families - Food 
Service' and distributed more than 15.5 million tray liners Tray Liners Featuring 2021 Popular Science Day
in more than 5,000 KFC restaurants themed 'Science and 
Technology, Protect Food Safety in Every Bite' to help customers 
understand how modern technology used in food safety 
management from farm to fork.
Yum China launched the YUMC Cup knowledge contest in 2017. 
Since then, we have regularly held YUMC Cups for Food Safety 
and Nutritional Health Knowledge Competition. The contest 
includes online and offline knowledge contests to increase the 
understanding and awareness of nutritional science and health 
among college students and the public. 
YUMC Cup 2021 was jointly held by Yum China, the China 
Market Regulation News, the Chinese Institute of Food Science 
and Technology, and Alipay's Answering Planet, aiming to 
further enhance the food safety literacy of college students and 
guide college students to cultivate a healthy lifestyle. In 2021, 
the event attracted over 4.6 million knowledge quiz participants 
through the competition platform just for the practice section, 
covering more than 140 universities from 16 cities. YUMC Cup
Attracted over
Attracted participants from overknowledge quiz participants 
cities nationwide.universities in4.6 million
16140 
Focusing on the healthy growth of teenagers, the Campaign 
of National Food Safety Publicity and Education for the Youth 
includes various campaigns and education activities on food 
safety and nutritional health knowledge. Since its launch in 
2016, there have been over 470 popular science education 
activities held in 47 cities across the country, with more than 
300,000 people directly participating in offline activities. 
Yum China's own teams actively provide support, such as 
providing tours to KFC restaurants, logistics centers, and 
upstream supplier bases. The tours help children understand 
the whole process of food preparation from source to 
processing, enhance their understanding of food safety, and 
support them to develop healthy living habits through the 
combination of education and entertainment.Yum China's official WeChat account, Best Foods & 
Best Sports, was officially established and promoted 
in 2017 to raise awareness of health and nutrition. In 
the WeChat official account, everyday stories are used 
to spread the knowledge of a healthy diet and healthy 
living in an engaging way. A TikTok account was 
created in May 2020, where we created short videos 
on related topics using everyday stories that resonate 
with people. Campaign of National Food Safety Publicity and Education for the YouthBest Foods & Best Sports
In 2021, the program expanded significantly with the 
technical guidance of the China Health Education Center 
and the media support of China Education Daily. And it was 
introduced into over 100 schools in 10 cities such as Beijing, 
Shanghai, Dalian, and Tianjin, with nationwide popular 
science education activities conducted for primary and 
secondary school students, advocating a healthy lifestyle 
with a balanced diet and exercise.In 2021
Scan QR code and subscribe for more information35 34
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Highly Relevant
Moderately Relevant
Environment
Climate change has become a global challenge 
across countries, industries and enterprises all over 
the world. Yum China has always been committed 
to reducing the adverse environmental impacts 
from the operation of our restaurants nationwide, 
as well as from our upstream and downstream 
activities. We have set the goals of 'reaching net 
zero value chain GHG emissions by 2050' and 
'zero deforestation supply chain' . Against these 
goals, we continue to promote green restaurants, 
facilitate the low-carbon transition of suppliers 
and responsible raw material procurement, and 
advocate a sustainable lifestyle with our customers. 
Driven by the concept of circular economy, we 
strive to strengthen waste management and 
resource utilization, develop innovative solutions 
of sustainable packaging, and continuously 
explore green and sustainable consumption in 
the restaurant industry. We will continue to work 
hand in hand with stakeholders across the value 
chain to promote the industry transition by turning 
challenges into opportunities, and to better protect 
the earth we live on.
Circular Economy Supply Chain 
Environmental ImpactClimate ActionPrimary Focus37
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Minimize Environmental Footprint by Leveraging 4R Principles
Yum China is committed to strengthening environmental management as an ongoing priority.  The Sustainability 4R Principles 
(Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, and Replace) serve as clear guidance across the value chain of Yum China, which are adopted to set relevant 
environmental goals accordingly.  We strive to reduce environmental impact from farm to fork, including raw material sourcing, 
logistics and warehousing, restaurant operations and delivery services, and to incorporate sustainability into daily operations. 
Environmental Management
Yum China firmly believes in the role of business leaders as stewards of the environment. Yum China strictly abides by the 
environment-related laws and regulations of China and develops relevant internal environmental policies such as the Yum China 
Environmental Management System. We have also established a Sustainability Committee comprised of selected Leadership Team 
members, the Sustainability Officer, and cross-functional teams. The Sustainability Committee members meet quarterly to track 
the implementation of material topics, evaluate sustainability risks, and develop risk management strategies and measures. 
We see environmental management at Yum China as an ongoing journey with cross-functional collaboration. In order to firm up 
environmental policies and goals, we pursue green building design and construction, and challenge ourselves to improve our 
management plans and initiatives in reducing GHG emissions, and enhancing the efficiency of use of resources. We work with 
suppliers to strengthen environmental management across our value chain, actively promote the use of renewable energy and 
continuously facilitate sustainable packaging. In addition, we are fully aware that only by creating a green culture can help our 
environmental policies be better implemented. In 2021, we rolled out training on 'Carbon Peaking and Carbon Neutrality Goals' to 
raise the climate change awareness of our employees. 
IllustrationLunchtime Sharing Session on Carbon Peaking and Carbon Neutrality Goals
In 2021, we organized a lunchtime sharing session themed  
'The Macro Situation and Development Trend of Carbon 
Peaking & Carbon Neutrality' , and launched an online course 
-The Opportunities and Challenges brought by Dual Carbon 
Goals, which helped improve employees' understanding and 
cognition of the government's climate action plan. 
The event attracted 4,097 participants in total.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Sixth Assessment Report issued in 2021, which once again reminds that 
climate change exerts a certain impact on the current food system, including supply chain and restaurant operations. At the 
same time, the food and restaurant industries can also contribute to climate change mitigation by taking action to reduce GHG 
emissions and facilitate the transition towards a more sustainable lifestyle
As the transition toward a circular economy is a proven global trend, the Chinese government correspondingly works on improving 
overall resource utilization capacity, supporting enterprises in building the system of circular economy and continuously enhancing waste 
management, so as to weaken the over-reliance on limited resources and minimize the environmental impact of business operations
There is an increasing need for food and restaurant industries to put more focus on the sustainability topics of their upstream value 
chain, especially the impact on biodiversity and deforestation. Enterprises can effectively mitigate the negative impact of supply chain 
on environment by implementing sustainable sourcing
Commit to setting SBT, in line with 
SBTi criteria
Reach net-zero value chain  
emissions by 2050
All newly built restaurants to 
comply with the Yum China Green 
Building Standards
10% reduction of average restaurant 
water consumption by 2025 as 
compared to the 2017 baselineClimate Action
10% reduction of our food  
waste per restaurant by 2030 as 
compared to the 2020 baseline
30% reduction in non-degradable 
plastic packaging weight by 2025 
as compared to the 2019 baseline
100% of customer-facing plastic 
based packaging is recyclableCircular Economy
100% of FSC-certified paper 
packaging by 2025
100% of purchased palm oil is 
RSPO certifiedSupply Chain Environmental Impact
Lunchtime Sharing Session Poster
Use energy-saving equipments
Use renewable energy via rooftop 
solar panels
Replace non-degradable plastic 
packaging with biodegradable 
materials
Purchase sustainable palm oil
Refuse to purchase paper products 
from suppliers that knowingly cause 
deforestationReduce energy consumption
Reduce water consumption
Reduce materials used in 
packaging
Reduce food loss
Reduce waste generationReduce Reuse
Design reusable 
packaging
Apply reusable 
decoration materialsRecycle
Use recyclable 
packaging materials
Convert used cooking 
oil (UCO) into 
biodieselReplaceYum China 4R PrinciplesOpportunities and Challenges
Goals and Commitments
Announce our commitment to support the Paris Agreement, develop a GHG emissions inventory and set science-based targets 
for emissions reduction, striving for net-zero value chain emissions by 2050
Near-term science-based GHG emissions reduction targets submitted to SBTi for validation
Participate in the CDP questionnaire for the first year to demonstrate our efforts to improve information transparency on our 
impact on climate change, forest and water
Produce our first Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) report to better assess climate risks and 
opportunities across our operations and value chain
Leverage our strong capacity on equipment innovation and effective management practices to improve energy and water efficiency
Proactively explore the concept of circular economy, tackling the sustainability challenges of food waste and packaging
Practice the principle of sustainable raw material procurement and strengthen the traceability management in the supply chain
Engage suppliers to collectively drive supply chain sustainability and promote low-carbon lifestyleKey Actions
36Yum China Sustainability Report 202138
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021 39
YUMC FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX
Climate Action
Together with our employees, customers, supply chain partners, and communities, we strive to take active climate action to 
transit to a low-carbon economy. We are fully committed to driving GHG emissions reduction across our value chain, and at the 
same time proactively review our business resilience against the climate risks and opportunities with reference to the TCFD, 
both in the near and long term. 
Climate-related Risks and Opportunities
TCFD was established by the G20 Financial Stability Board 
(FSB) in December 2015 to develop an internationally 
recognized framework for climate-related financial risk 
disclosures. TCFD published a set of recommendations in 
2017, covering four pillars namely governance, strategy, risk 
management, and metrics and targets.
As Yum China builds long-term climate change resilience 
capacity and drives transition towards a low-carbon economy, As we move further along our climate action journey, we are stepping up our efforts to become a net-zero emissions company. 
Yum China will continue to collaborate with stakeholders across the value chain to convert the sustainability challenges of today 
into business opportunities for tomorrow.
——Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
we recognize the need to consider the potential impacts 
of climate-related risks and opportunities in our strategy to 
ensure business continuity and sustainability. Therefore, we 
commit to fully adopting the TCFD recommendations. We 
identified and assessed climate-related risks and opportunities 
that have significant impact on our business in different 
scenarios and outlined the approach to addressing them. For 
more details, please refer to our TCFD report, which will be 
released in July, 2022.Science-based Targets Setting
As the largest restaurant company in China, we see the needs 
to be part of the global climate action to meet the long-term 
targets of the Paris Agreement, to limit global temperature rise 
to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, and China's commitment to 
peak carbon emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 
2060. We officially announced the signing and submission of the 
Business Ambition for 1.5 °C  Commitment Letter to SBTi on June 8, 
2021, demonstrating our commitment to science-based targets to 
reduce GHG emissions and the ambition to reach net-zero value 
chain emissions by 2050. 
Developing a comprehensive GHG emissions inventory is our 
first priority in this journey to identify major sources of our 
emissions and track our progress over time. In 2021, we had 
To set organizational boundary of our GHG emissions 
inventory, we use the control approach to consolidate 
GHG emissions, which covers our own operations 
(restaurants, office buildings and logistics centers) 
and 11 relevant Scope 3 categories in upstream and 
downstream of the value chain. We calculated the GHG 
emissions within the organizational boundary for three 
consecutive years from 2019 to 2021.
We prioritize calculating our GHG emissions through 
primary data which directly measures our activities that 
result in GHG emissions. We use other methods to utilize 
financial data for calculation where primary data is not 
available.
Organizational Boundary of GHG Emissions 
Inventory
Selection of Data Types
Formulating a full GHG emissions inventory of our 
entire value chain is a complex and challenging task. 
We estimated our GHG emissions by using a systematic, 
comprehensive and methodical approach. In 2021, 
we relied on a hybrid approach to calculate Scope 
1, 2 and 3 emissions. We calculated GHG emissions 
from purchased goods, which account for the largest 
proportion of scope 3 emissions, through top-down 
estimation and bottom-up data calibration. We also 
verified the GHG emissions of selected suppliers by 
performing site visits to further improve data integrity, 
reliability and accuracy.
Accounting Methodology of GHG 
Emissions
The emission factors and Global Warming Potential 
adopted for the entire value chain GHG emissions 
calculation were taken from the following sources:
IPCC Fifth Assessment Report
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations (UN FAO)
Average CO2e* emission factors of the grid in China 
issued by the National Development and Reform 
Commission (NDRC)
Other published databases and government statistics
*Carbon Dioxide equivalent
Selection of Emission Factors
  Metrics & TargetsRisk ManagementStrategyGovernanceundertaken a systematic and methodical approach to measure 
and calculate the GHG emissions across our entire value chain 
including upstream, downstream and our own operations from 
2019 to 2021, in accordance with the latest Greenhouse Gas 
Protocol and SBTi manuals.  We use this as a basis to develop GHG 
emissions reduction targets that align with the methodologies and 
requirements of the SBTi. 
We have developed our near-term targets in line with 1.5°C  pathway 
and the SBTi criteria. We are pleased to announce that on June 8, 2022, 
Yum China submitted our near-term science-based GHG emissions 
reduction targets to SBTi for validation. Once the target is approved, 
we will publicly disclose Yum China's carbon reduction ambitions and 
GHG reduction strategy across the value chain.40
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021 41
YUMC FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX
Low-carbon Operations
To reduce the carbon footprint, Yum China has laid the 
foundation of making progress through efforts to improve 
energy and water efficiency across its own operation. We 
have made significant investments to establish an efficient 
technology infrastructure, which serves as the foundation GHG Emissions of Yum China (2019-2021)*
of our intelligent restaurant network management and 
facilitates efficient and innovative restaurant operations 
across all our brands. Meanwhile, our effective management 
practices also help reduce GHG emissions considerably.
We benchmark our buildings against the Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design (LEED) criteria and formulated the 
Yum China Green Building Standards for restaurant design to 
build high-standard green buildings by using environmentally 
friendly materials, energy-saving facilities, and thermal 
comfort control systems. In 2021, all our 1,410 newly built Green Building
and remodeled KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants were compliant 
with the Yum China Green Building Standards, achieving the 
goal of 'All newly built restaurants to comply with the Yum 
China Green Building Standards' . We regularly review and 
update the Yum China Green Building Standards according to 
international and national standards.To further minimize our environmental impact, we have implemented various programs in restaurant construction, including 
noise and dust control.Fresh air volume standards 
that meet national 
requirements to ensure 
indoor air quality
Choose top-branded 
Direct Current (DC)
variable-frequency air 
conditioners that provide 
a high degree of comfort
Ergonomic design 
considerations to ensure 
the comfort of employees 
and customersAll material suppliers are 
industry-leading providers; 
material selection standards 
are significantly above national 
standards
Noise levels of kitchen 
equipments meet the 
national standards
LED lamps are top-branded 
quality products with 
photobiological-safety 
certified
Yum China 
Green Building Standards 
Install insulation prior to construction for noise and 
dust control
Limit the use of high-decibel equipment such as 
cutting machines and compressed air electric pickaxesSend waste to waste collection 
locations rather than dropping 
from significant heightsLimit unavoidable high-
decibel work to an enclosed 
environment
Regulate and publish 
construction time and period to 
minimize noise disturbancePromote the use of 
preassembled components to 
reduce noise pollutionYum China's 
Environmental 
Management 
of Construction 
Processes
Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions (tCO2e) 2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 31.5%
20.0%
78.5%Energy Indirect (Scope 2)
 GHG Emissions (tCO2e) 
Average Restaurant Energy Indirect 
GHG Emissions (tCO2e) 2021 GHG Emissions of Yum China114,720  1,956,072 
 135,615  1,873,757 
158,8872,158,856
*The Scope1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions of Yum China in 2019 & 2020 only covered the company-owned restaurants and unconsolidated 
affiliates of KFC and Pizza Hut. In 2021, we expanded the scope of GHG emissions to company-owned restaurants across all brands and all 
own-operated logistics centers and office buildings. The average restaurant energy indirect GHG emissions was calculated based on the total 
purchased electricity consumption from company-owned restaurants across all brands in 2021.2019 2020 2021233
20720543 42
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Energy efficiency and low-carbon operations of our restaurants have been a long-term priority in our efforts to reduce GHG 
emissions. We have continuously upgraded equipments and facilities with advanced technologies to promote the digitization, 
automation, and intelligence of our restaurants. 
In 2021, Yum China continued to expand the Value-added Technology Application (VTA) system in newly-built and remodeled 
restaurants. The VTA system is equipped with real-time monitoring of CO2 concentrations and automatic fresh air volume control, 
contributing to the reduction of air-conditioning energy consumption while ensuring a comfortable environment. In 2021, the 
VTA system has been installed in over 1,050 restaurants, resulting in electricity savings of approximately 12,670 MWh. We are 
also incorporating IoT-enabled features as part of our efforts to develop 'intelligent restaurants' , and plan to roll out this initiative 
nationwide as appropriate.Energy Efficiency
Total Electricity Consumption (MWh) Average Restaurant Electricity Consumption (MWh)2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021 2,870,997 
342 2,760,611 
3043,165,227
303
*The electricity consumption of Yum China in 2019 & 2020 only covered the company-owned restaurants and unconsolidated affiliates of KFC and 
Pizza Hut. In 2021, we expanded the scope of electricity consumption to company-owned restaurants across all brands, own-operated logistics centers 
and office buildings. The average restaurant electricity consumption was calculated based on total electricity consumption from company-owned 
restaurants across all brands in 2021.Energy Consumption of Yum China (2019-2021)*
Yum China has also been focusing on the GHG emissions 
from logistics and warehousing. Given this, we have 
developed the Transportation Management System (TMS) 
to improve transportation efficiency and to reduce GHG 
emissions. We have piloted the use of electric vehicle (EV) 
fleets in Shenzhen, as part of our continued exploration into 
Kitchen equipments with 
automatic on/off controlsAir-conditioning systems with automatic on/off 
controls, automatic mode selection (cooling/heating/
ventilation), automatic temperature setting and 
automatic air velocity setting
Fume exhaust and fresh air supply 
interconnected with cooking 
equipment
Automatic intermittent 
operation for fresh air systems
Automatic intermittent air curtain operation 
activated by human motion sensorTimed lighting control by zones
IoT-enabled 
Intelligent 
Restaurants
1,005
~5,200~3,390
~ 16,800 2021
2017-2021Kitchen cooking fume exhaust control system
800 
~3,150~9,980
~ 33,000 2021
2017-2021Heat pump water heater 
1,076
~4,440~5,520
~ 19,800 2021
2017-2021High-efficiency DC air-conditioning system
1,867 
~ 5,170 ~4,100
~ 15,200 2021
2017-2021LED lighting
1,057 
~ 2,320 ~12,670
~ 21,500 2021
2017-2021VTA system
267 
~ 1,490 ~2,570
~ 6,100 2021
2017-2021Kitchen hood
Installations Electricity saved (MWh)Achievements of Energy Saving Technology Applications
new energy vehicles to support our extensive distribution 
system.
Our efforts to reduce GHG emissions are not just in the 
restaurants and logistics. We are also actively taking action 
to reduce GHG emissions from office buildings for greener 
workplaces.
Update procurement processes to favor 
more environmentally friendly office 
supplies
Encourage duplex printing and limit color 
printing
Use eco-friendly printing paper
Install sensor lights in offices to help save 
energy
Measures to Build Green Workplaces45 44
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
The impact of climate change on water resource will 
adversely affect social and economic activities. Working 
with the World Resources Institute (WRI), we assessed water 
resource risk levels in the areas where our restaurants are 
Water Efficiency
located. Based on the assessment results, we continue 
to prioritize the upgrading of water-saving equipments 
in water-stressed or water-scarce areas, such as thawing 
cabinets and tailor-made dishwashers. 
Total Water Consumption (tons) Average Restaurant Water Consumption (tons)2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021 27,602,012 
3,284 24,579,253 
2,710 27,280,872 
2,628
*The water consumption of Yum China in 2019 & 2020 only covered the company-owned restaurants and unconsolidated affiliates of KFC and 
Pizza Hut. In 2021, we expanded the scope of water consumption to company-owned restaurants across all brands.
Illustration IllustrationThawing Cabinet Tailor-made Dishwasher
We developed a new water-
efficient thawing cabinet 
that uses air circulation 
instead of running water. 
The annual water-saving 
capacity of a single cabinet 
is 1.2 tons. 10 cabinets were 
installed by the end of 
2021. We will explore to role 
out in more restaurants.We installed dishwashers 
in KFC restaurant to  
replace manual washing. 
Tests showed that our 
dishwashers save about 
0.9 tons of water per 
restaurant per day. By the 
end of 2021, we installed 
over 2,700 dishwashers 
across the country,  
resulting in annual water 
savings of approximately 
400,000 tons.Water Consumption of Yum China (2019-2021)*
Daily water saved
per restaurantton0.9
Yum China believes that the transition to renewable energy will improve our resilience in addressing the challenges of climate change, 
and it also plays a vital role in fulfilling the commitment of reaching net-zero value chain GHG emissions by 2050. 
In addition to continuous efforts on energy efficiency improvement, renewable energy investment is another vital approach for Yum 
China to reduce GHG emissions. We are actively exploring affordable, reliable and scalable renewable energy solutions for over 11,000 
restaurants, 32 distribution centers and offices nationwide.
Renewable energy investment is a new space for us at Yum China, in fact, can be a kind of industry challenge. We have taken an important 
step to pilot Distributed Photovoltaics (DPV) installation in the first batch of KFC Green Pioneer Stores in Beijing and Hangzhou in early 
2022. The installed rooftop solar panels generate about 10,000 kilowatt-hours of clean electricity a year for the restaurant, and we plan 
to further improve the restaurant's energy efficiency by incorporating energy storage technology. Compared with the average carbon 
emissions per KFC restaurant in 2020, the Green Pioneer Stores can reduce GHG emissions by around 15%. 
In the future, based on the technological advancement and pilot experience, we will continue to assess the feasibility of renewable energy 
utilization in operating sites such as deploying rooftop solar panels for restaurants, logistics centers and office buildings, as appropriate. 
In addition, we continue to explore more renewable energy opportunities in the case of specific application for Yum China. In 
collaboration with various stakeholders, we are actively building know-how and seeking for every opportunity to leverage the green 
power trading system that China government stated to pilot since September 2021. Renewable Energy
We are committed to driving meaningful change and pioneering in the restaurant industry towards net-zero emissions. Building 
Green Pioneer Stores is an important part of our journey. We will continue to explore utilization of innovative technologies in 
restaurant construction and operations to promote sustainable development as well as contribute to the low carbon economy.
——Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
KFC Green Pioneer Store in HangzhouSolar Energy Powered Umbrellas
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
47 46
YUMC FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX
Over two third of Yum China's value chain GHG emissions come from the purchased goods, and our supply chain is complexly 
structured with a wide range of categories and our suppliers have different readiness for low-carbon operations. Therefore it is of vital 
importance to develop a supplier engagement and empowerment program to engage suppliers to collectively drive carbon reduction 
in our supply chain, so as to drive towards net-zero value chain emissions by 2050. 
In 2021, we started to include suppliers' efforts of energy-saving and GHG emissions reduction into the checklist for supplier CSR 
audit. We encourage suppliers to develop energy management systems to track and monitor energy and resource consumption, 
and to deploy energy-efficient facilities and technologies to reduce GHG emissions from their operations. 
While developing the Scope 3 GHG emissions inventory of suppliers for the first time, we offered training sessions for suppliers to 
enhance their knowledge and knowhow on Climate Action, and to develop the capability to map out their own value chain GHG 
emissions. 
We are in the process to set Carbon Footprint another KPI in addition to Cost and Quality, into supplier management system. 
Supplier performance on GHG emissions would form one part of suppliers selection criteria and annual business review.In recent years, with the enhancement of environmental consciousness of the public, a low-carbon lifestyle has been favored 
by an increasing number of customers. In addition to reducing GHG emissions in our own operations and mobilizing suppliers 
in this regard, customers are also one of the most important stakeholders in Yum China's efforts to address climate change 
challenges. Leveraging our strong online and offline connections with customers, we strive to increase environmental 
awareness among the public through a series of green marketing campaigns, encouraging and rewarding more eco-friendly 
choices, in order to turn sustainability challenges into opportunities. 
In the future, we will explore more innovative ways to motivate customers and other stakeholders to join us on our journey to 
drive meaningful change and contribute to a more sustainable planet.
We work closely with our supply chain partners to create a more sustainable model in each sector, further consolidate 
achievements made in sustainable development, and build a green and sustainable supply chain ecosystem.
——Howard Huang, Chief Supply Chain Officer of Yum ChinaSupply Chain Decarbonization Low-carbon Lifestyle Promotion
First-ever Supply Chain Sustainability Workshop
As the kick-off of supplier engagement program to drive for 
Scope 3 GHG emissions reduction, we held the first-ever Yum 
China Supply Chain Sustainability Workshop in February 2022.
We brought together the leadership team of Top 50 key 
suppliers in the food and packaging category to participate in 
the workshop. External consultants were invited to interpret 
the policies and market trends to call for the urgency of 
climate action. Yum China's experience and latest progress on 
climate action, especially SBT target setting were shared. Top 
performing suppliers in each product categories were invited to 
share their best practices in carbon emissions reduction. More 
Pilot Suppliers Communication Commitment of Yum China upon 
Value Chain GHG Emissions Reductionimportantly, all of the suppliers signed up to the commitment 
to contributing to Yum China net-zero target. 
The workshop is a start for Yum China to engage suppliers 
on supply chain decarbonization. Clear message has been 
delivered for key suppliers to map out their GHG emissions and 
set targets for emissions reduction along their own value chain. 
A pilot program was launched with selected suppliers from 
the poultry and packaging categories to develop a carbon 
footprint scorecard and category management playbook in 
the next several years, and it is planned to replicate to all other 
categories afterwards.  Illustration
Yum China Supply Chain 
Sustainability Workshop
IllustrationIllustration
KFC, a Supporter of WWF Earth Hour for 13 Consecutive Y earsKFC's Marketing Campaign to Spark a Sustainable Lifestyle
Since 2009, KFC has been supporting WWF's Earth Hour to inspire individuals and communities to take tangible 
environmental action. On the last Saturday of March every year, KFC restaurants proactively participate in the Earth Hour 
activity. During the hour, all exterior lights are switched off. We hope to advocate the public to practice a low-carbon 
lifestyle and build a green future together.In addition, KFC launched an oat drink on its breakfast menu, 
its first 'carbon zero' product. The whole lifecycle carbon 
footprint of the oat drink was certified by a third-party 
institution in accordance with ISO 14067. To offset the GHG 
emissions of the oat drink, KFC joined hands with the China 
Green Carbon Foundation to plant trees and launched the 
KFC Carbon-neutral Forest Program in Baoshan, Yunnan 
province.In December 2021, KFC introduced an interactive section on its Super App to increase public awareness on topics such 
as 'Exploring Carbon Reduction' and 'The Journey to Carbon Neutrality' , aiming to promote carbon reduction actions. 
KFC has introduced a green rewards program with special coupons that encourages and incentivizes behaviors such as 
mobile ordering and in-store pickup, opting out of using disposable cutlery, reducing food waste, and waste sorting. 
The program covered over 7,900 stores nationwide and strived to inspire 320 million KFC members to participate in and 
contribute to the sustainable development of society and the environment.
KFC Participates in Earth Hour Initiativemillion63Completing Super App 
check-ins and carbon 
reduction actions over
tCO 2e 145Leading to a total carbon 
reduction
million28The number of KFC members across 
the country actively participated in the 
campaign was overDuring the three-week campaign period that ended in December 2021
'Carbon Zero' Oat Drink
49 48
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
IllustrationReducing Food Waste with Food Bank Program
We have launched the Food Bank program since 2020 to support China's national campaign against food waste and to 
contribute to the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) for zero hunger and responsible consumption 
and production. The program involves establishing food pick-up stations at chosen restaurants to provide surplus food for 
free to residents in need. We ensure that unsold food is properly collected, packed, kept and frozen. Information such as the 
date of deposit and the consumption guidelines are clearly marked on each bag. Circular Economy
The circular economy concept has risen on the global 
agenda. Guided by 4R Principles, we strive to explore circular 
solutions to tackle the sustainability challenges of food 
waste and packaging, while engaging our customers and 
other stakeholders.
We adopt a holistic approach to manage food loss and 
waste across our operations, which starts with reducing 
the food loss and recycling the waste generated at our 
restaurants. We continue to explore sustainable packaging 
solutions to minimize the environmental impact. In addition, 
we collaborate with suppliers to develop eco-friendly 
packaging materials. 
In compliance with the national and local laws and 
regulations on waste, we have entrusted qualified third 
Food Loss & Waste 
The UN FAO estimates that 1.3 billion tons of food world-wide is 
wasted, resulting in approximately $750 billion direct economic 
costs annually. We are working towards the 2030 goal of reducing per restaurant food waste by 10% as compared to 
2020 baseline by exploring innovative initiatives for food loss 
reduction across different stages of the value chain. parties to properly collect and dispose of the restaurant 
wastes. Moreover, our stores are equipped with assorted 
waste bins following the waste sorting policies in 46 pilot 
cities. 
To effectively manage solid waste generated in our 
restaurants, we started to pilot a hybrid approach to improve 
the monitoring and measures of the solid wastes. We will 
continue to improve our approaches to systematically 
manage the wastes generated in our restaurants*.
We are also in the process exploring every opportunity to 
recycle waste into resources in collaboration with various 
stakeholders.
IllustrationConverting UCO into Biodiesel
In 2018, Yum China launched a small-scale pilot project in Chengdu to convert UCO into biodiesel and established a 
comprehensive data recording and tracking system in accordance with International Sustainability and Carbon Certification 
(ISCC) criteria. In 2021, we continued to expand the pilot project to cover more restaurants. By the end of 2021, 325 
restaurants were certified by ISCC, including KFC, Pizza Hut, and Taco Bell restaurants, expanding from the Chengdu market 
to the whole Sichuan province. From 2019 to 2021, 2,545 tons of UCO have been converted into biodiesel. 
ISCC Certification Amount of UCO Converted 
into Biodiesel (tons)Number of Restaurants 
Certificated by ISCC2019 2020 20216667011,178
2019 2020 2021~100150+325
*As a restaurant business, we do not generate hazardous waste.Food Purchasing
Apply AI/IoT to 
improve sales 
forecasting accuracy 
and inventory 
managementIncrease the 
proportion of cold 
chain transportation Use cooking 
equipments to 
avoid excessive 
cooking per batch 
Use oil-saving fryers Launch Food Bank 
program
Convert used 
cooking oil (UCO) 
into biodieselFood Transportation Food Processing Food Disposal
KFC expanded its Food 
Bank program to cover over By the end of 2021
restaurants 
cities 120 
27 51 50
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Progress of Sustainable Packaging in 2021Sustainable Packaging
The use of disposable packaging is a common challenge to 
the restaurant industry. Yum China strictly complies with 
the national laws and regulations on the use of packaging. 
Guided by the 4R Principles, Yum China sets a series of goals 
and commitments, and officially released the Yum China 
Packaging Strategy in 2021. Through a variety of initiatives, 
such as design optimization, material replacement and 
Reduce the use of paper 
packaging and non-degradable 
plastic packaging material 
from the source by application 
of new packaging solutions, 
new materials and innovative 
technologiesReplace disposable 
non-degradable plastic 
packaging with more 
eco-friendly materialsDesign recyclable packaging 
products such as reusable 
serving basket for resource 
reusinginnovative solutions on multiple-use packaging, a total of 91 
packaging items have been optimized. These breakthroughs 
effectively minimize environmental impacts. Meanwhile it 
creates opportunities to include our customers to be part of 
our responsible ecosystem and enables sustainable lifestyle. 
Sustainable Packaging Commitments
2021 Yum China Sustainable Packaging Facilitation Methodsof customer-facing plastic 
based packaging is recyclableof FSC-certified paper 
packaging by 2025Reduction in non-degradable 
plastic packaging weight by 
2025 as compared to the 2019 
baseline100% 100% 30%
Design Optimization Material Replacement Innovative Methods of Application
 *Total packaging savings is the difference in packaging usage from company-owned restaurants across all brands before and after the 
optimization of packaging items in 2021.Plastics packaging 
savingsPaper packaging 
savings
tons ~9,300 tons ~9,600Total packaging 
savings*
tons ~18,900100%Percentage of recyclable 
customer-facing plastic packaging
Managing and reducing plastic pollution has emerged as a global concern. We have always been committed to reducing  single 
use plastic packaging through innovative design, and actively apply eco-friendly materials to replace plastic, and fulfill Yum 
China's commitment of sustainable packaging from multiple perspectives to promote green and low-carbon development and 
circular economy.
Removed plastic straws. As of the end of 2021, all the restaurants under Yum China have eliminated using plastic 
straws and adopted paper straws.Continuous Reduction of Plastic 
Replaced plastic cutlery. As of the end of 2021, over 90% of KFC restaurants in mainland China have replaced 
disposable plastic cutlery with wooden cutlery.
Removed non-degradable plastic bags. As of the end of 2021, approximately 70% of KFC and Pizza Hut 
restaurants in mainland China have removed non-degradable plastic bags, and adopted paper bags or fully 
biodegradable plastic bags.
Replaced 
Materials
Optimized 
Design
Reduced approximately
of disposable plastics in 2021 1,200 tons 
Replaced approximately 
of plastic cutleries and plastic straws 
in 20212,300 tons 
Replaced approximately
of plastic bags and plastic cups and lids 
in 20215,800 tons 53 52
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
While making ongoing efforts to reduce packaging use 
and apply more eco-friendly packaging, Yum China also 
understands the need to reduce the potential impact of paper 
production on rainforest. We do not accept any paper products 
from suppliers who may destroy the rainforest. Furthermore, 
we have set the goal of '100% of FSC-certified paper packaging 
by 2025' , and intend to gradually expand the application of 
FSC-certificated paper. We started pilot in using FSC-certified 
paper cola cups in Guangzhou KFC restaurants in 2021 and 
plan to replace cola cups with FSC-certified paper cups in 
the national market by 2022. We estimate the successful Use of FSC-certified Paper
implementation of this initiative will achieve 7.1% paper 
packaging switching to FSC-certified paper. At the same 
time, our stores nationwide have successively adopted 
greener bamboo pulp napkins with FSC certification in 2022, 
so as to completely replace the non-FSC wood pulp napkins.
Looking ahead, we will seek to further enhance the 
sustainability of our packaging, commit to carrying out 
sustainability innovation across more applications and 
across a wider range of packaging, and further fulfill our 
commitment to sustainable packaging.
Yum China has been promoting the Reusable Serving 
Basket Program in KFC restaurants since 2019. Reusable 
serving baskets are used to replace the use of packaging 
materials such as paper cartons and paper bags, 
significantly reducing the use of paper packaging 
materials. The program is an environmental protection 
measure comprehensively promoted by KFC after several 
years of development and store trials. In 2021, the Reusable 
Serving Basket Program covers 7,300 stores from 6,000 
stores in 2019, and saving over 5,400 tons of paper since 
the inception of the program.
In addition, we have already rolled out the program to 
all Taco Bell restaurants. We would further expand the 
program to more brands as appropriate.Reusable Serving 
Basket Program
Reduced approximately 
of paper in 2021 1,600 tons 
Our approach to sustainable packaging starts from design, where we aim to minimize the use of paper packaging through design. 
In 2021, we further optimized paper packaging in terms of design simplification, lightweight materials and optimal structure, and 
launched eco-friendly napkins, paper bags, paper buckets and cartons. Moreover, we continue to promote the Reusable Serving 
Basket Program across brands through innovative methods of application, which significantly reduce the use of paper packaging 
while ensuring the dining experience of our customers.Effective Reduction of Paper 
KFC used full embossed 
single-layer napkin, reducing 
approximately 3,430 tons of 
paper in 2021.
KFC stores nationwide started 
to optimize our Panini and 
Wrap packaging, reducing 
approximately 410 tons of 
paper in 2021.  KFC used paper plates and 
buckets with high-bulk 
paper in four products, 
reducing approximately 
260 tons of paper in 2021.  KFC used the paper bucket 
cover with a hollow 
corrugated cardboard 
structure, reducing 
approximately 230 tons of 
paper in 2021.KFC used a lightweight egg 
tart box made from paper, 
reducing approximately 60 
tons of paper in 2021.  
KFC stores nationwide 
started to use  paper bags 
with optimized sizes, 
reducing approximately 
140 tons of paper in 2021.  Lightweight 
Materials
Optimized 
StructureReduced approximately 
Reduced approximately of paper in 2021
of paper in 20214,320 tons 
3,720 tons 
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Supply Chain Environmental Impact
Forests help to regulate ecosystems and play an integral role 
in the carbon and water cycles. To do our part in protecting 
the lungs of our earth, we have set an ambitious goal of 
achieving a zero-deforestation supply chain in collaboration 
with our suppliers. We comply with national laws, support 
global forest protection initiatives, and explore opportunities 
to eliminate potential deforestation risks across our supply 
chain.
We are exploring opportunities to enhance upstream 
traceability, identify major agricultural commodities 
from high-risk regions, and collaborate with supply chain Sustainable Sourcing of Raw Materials in 2021
RSPO-certified palm oil Traceable soy for soy milk powderRefusal to purchase paper products 
from suppliers that knowingly cause 
deforestation100% 100% 100%partners to create a sustainable ecosystem. By continuously 
strengthening traceability management in our upstream 
supply chain, we support sustainable sourcing of 
commodities, including palm oil, soy, cattle, and timber.
To reduce the impacts of our business on marine ecosystems, 
we pay increasing attention to the sustainable sourcing of 
seafood products. In order to promote sustainable fisheries 
development, we encourage our suppliers to obtain 
certification of sustainable food products, such as seafood 
certified by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and Best 
Aquaculture Practices (BAP).
Palm oil is one of Yum China's key raw materials for cooking. 
We have been a RSPO member since 2017 and commit to 
only purchasing palm oil that meets the eight principles and 
criteria of the RSPO. 
We strive to protect natural resources and biodiversity while 
supporting sustainable palm oil production in collaboration 
with stakeholders.
As of 2021, we have achieved RSPO certification for 100% of 
the palm oil purchased.Palm Oil
We follow relevant laws and regulations related to imported 
meat products, including the List of Registered Meat Products 
Enterprises Exporting to China. 
In collaboration with our suppliers, we are analyzing the risks 
in our cattle supply chain.Cattle
In Yum China's supply chain, soy is used mainly as chicken feed 
and in soy-based food. 
We are developing soy traceability systems in collaboration 
with our upstream suppliers and leveraging best practices from 
external stakeholders. Improving traceability will help identify 
risks and enhance transparency and disclosure.
All of the soy used in our restaurants' soymilk powder comes from 
Northeast China. The planting and purchase of soy, managed 
by local farms, is traceable and environmentally friendly. We also 
encourage our poultry suppliers to comply with the Amazon Soy 
Moratorium and other international tropical forest protection 
conventions and initiatives. Soy
To manage the environmental impact of our paper 
packaging, we prefer to purchase forest-friendly products 
and refuse to purchase paper products from suppliers that 
knowingly cause deforestation. 
In 2021, we started to introduce FSC-certified sustainable 
paper and we aim to use 100% FSC-certified paper 
packaging by 2025. Timber
55 5457 56
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
As the largest restaurant company in China, Yum 
China has over 450,000 employees across mainland 
China and serves hundreds of millions of customers 
each year. Since entering China 35 years ago, Yum 
China has been investing in developing talent 
skilled at both innovation and execution. Yum China, 
with 'People First' as one of our core values, strives 
to fulfil the needs of the key stakeholders, including 
employees, customers, suppliers and communities, 
throughout the value chain. Our workplace is 
guided by the 'Fair, Care and Pride' principle. We 
also work hard to live up to one of our core values 
of 'Customer Mania' and encourage our suppliers to 
shoulder social responsibility and contribute to the 
community's sustainable development and growth.
Highly Relevant
Moderately Relevant
People
People First Customer Relationship 
ManagementSupply Chain 
Social ImpactPrimary Focus59 58
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Create a Sustainable Workplace that 
Reinforces 'People First' 
Since entering China 35 years ago, Yum China has always firmly believed in 'People First' value. Fulfilling the needs of our 
key stakeholders, including our employees, customers, suppliers and the community, has always been at the top of the 
management agenda. We aim to provide our employees with a fair and targeted development platform. We strive to provide 
our customers with delightful services, in line with our 'Customer Mania' value. We also work with suppliers closely to build a 
responsible supply chain and to promote development of the industry.
Our board of directors oversees important human capital matters, including diversity and inclusion, management succession 
planning, and rewards and benefits programs. Under the Board’s oversight, the Company regularly conducts a people planning 
review to attract, retain and develop a workforce that aligns with our values and strategies.
IllustrationYum China Certified as a Top Employer in China for the Fourth Consecutive Y ear
In 2022, the Top Employers Institute certified the Company as a Top Employer in China 
for the fourth consecutive year, recognizing our human capital practices in people 
strategy, working environment, talent acquisition, learning, employee well-being, and 
diversity & inclusion. Yum China is the only restaurant company among the top 20 out of 
over 120 companies certified in total. Yum China has been upgrading employee benefits 
and supporting sustainable career development for employees as the challenge of 
COVID-19 continues.The 2021 China Chain Restaurant Industry Report highlighted that rapid development and talent shortage had become critical issues in the restaurant industry. 
Great efforts should be invested in critical human resources practices including compensation strategy, fair labor practices, diversity and inclusion. In 2021, the 
International Labor Organization (ILO) released a policy brief titled Building Forward Fairer, placing gender equality strategies at the core for the labor market to 
recover from the pandemic and advocating that female employees should be provided with a more supportive working environment
The China Chain Store & Franchise Association (CCFA) Research Report on Digitalization of Restaurant Industry (2021) noted that the restaurant 
industry must continuously stay ahead of the curve to the changing customer expectations under the new normal during the pandemic
Companies should pursue seamless collaboration with their suppliers to achieve sustainable development. Suppliers are expected to not only comply 
with laws and regulations, but also contribute to the betterment of their employees and customers as well as the environment and the community
At least 50% of our total workforce is female
At least 50% of all employees hired, trained, promoted, and 
retained are female 
'Top Employer China' 
Our employees collectively are one of Yum China's competitive advantages to achieve our long-term success. 
Since the outbreak of the pandemic, I am indebted to all our employees for their strong sense of responsibility 
and resiliency. They are our brand ambassadors to offer warmth and care to our customers and the society 
under such difficult conditions. As a top employer built on 'Fair, Care and Pride' , we are very grateful to our 
employees for their hard work and contribution. We are committed to building a workplace where employees 
can thrive. We will protect them as well as continue to support their career development in times of uncertainty. 
——Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
People is one of the three pillars of Yum China's sustainability strategy. The Company is committed to 
accelerating employee growth guided by our principle of 'Fair, Care and Pride' . This includes building employees' 
future employability, creating a diverse and inclusive working environment, providing competitive benefits, 
empowering employees through digitalization and focusing on occupational health and safety. We believe that 
these practices are critical to the long-term success for Yum China and our employees. 
——Aiken Yuen, Chief People Officer of Yum ChinaOver 1.5% of full-time jobs are offered to people with disabilities
100% of critical suppliers are covered by CSR auditYum China Sustainability Report 2021
58Respect and Protect Human Rights: Adhering to the 'People First' value, we firmly believe that human rights serves as a foundation of a sustainable 
business. Yum China has released the Human Rights Policy reiterating our firm commitment to respect and protect human rights in the workplace and 
also in the community
Foster Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: We are committed to creating a diverse, inclusive and non-discriminatory working environment for employees. We 
provide a platform for all employees to realize their full potential through a series of programs such as restaurants for working mothers in rural regions, Winter 
Olympics Restaurant, and college education scholarship
Technology Powering Diversified Recruitment: We adopt a recruitment strategy to attract talents with diverse background. Every year, Yum China hires more 
than 10,000 outstanding talents both locally and abroad to bring new blood into the team. We organize campus innovation contests all over China to build a 
strong employer branding. We also deploy technology as an enabler to improve recruitment efficiency and candidate experiences
Unlock Individual Potential and Accelerate Growth: With our firm belief in 'People Capability First' , we actively invest in every step of employees' career 
progression. We are committed to supporting talent with ambition, capabilities and motivation to achieve their full career potential in Yum China. In 2021, about 
42% of restaurant management team received a promotion
Reward Performance and Share the Fruit of Success: To support our Founder's Mentality and to reward employees' contributions, we practice 'Pay For 
Performance' . Employees will receive not only a competitive compensation, but also different incentive schemes so that they can share the Company's financial 
success. To incentivize accelerated growth of Lavazza, the latest addition to Yum China's brand portfolio, a long-term employee share ownership scheme (ESOP) has 
been created for core employees and contributors of the Lavazza Joint Venture to drive its business growth
Enhance Employee Care and Benefits: We upgraded the YUMC Care benefits plan, focusing on personal health, family health, social health, and financial health. 
In 2021, as there is heightened concern on health and safety due to the pandemic outbreak, Yum China quickly upgraded medical coverage for restaurant general 
managers up to RMB 1 million
Ensure Safety and Health: Providing a safe and healthy environment for employees, customers and other stakeholders is one of our primary responsibilities. Yum 
China has released its Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) Management System to ensure our employees, customers and partners fully understand and comply 
with the relevant regulations, policies and procedures
Customer Mania and Improve Experience:  We have officially opened the Yum China Digital R&D Center. Aside from a strict data security management system, 
digital tools are deployed to improve the Guest Experience Survey system to enhance customer experience
Build A Responsible Supply Chain: We ensure that the online supplier CSR audit training rate reaches 100%. We not only practice responsible procurement, but 
also work with supplier partners to build a responsible supply chainOpportunities and Challenges
Goals and Commitments
Key Actions
61 60
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Human Rights Policy2021
Employee turnover rateTotal number of employees
Restaurant General Managers (RGMs)
Number of employees by gender450,000
10.6%
Female35%
65%Number of employees by type of employmentPart-time33%
67%
Full-time
Number of employees by age group30 and below3%
58%16%
23%
31  40 41  50 Over 50 MaleRespect and Protect Human Rights
Employee Statistics
Employees may report suspected violations of the policy through our compliance website (https: www.yumchina.com/
compliance) or toll free hotline (400-880-1346). The company will investigate, address and respond to any concerns raised by 
employees and take appropriate corrective action for validated cases. 
The Human Rights Policy complies with Yum China's Code of Conduct. We require employees to complete mandatory annual 
Code of Conduct training. The Human Rights Policy applies to Yum China Holding, Inc., the business entities that we own, the 
entities in which we hold a majority interest and the facilities that we manage. We expect our suppliers and partners to uphold 
these principles and encourage them to formulate similar policies within their companies.
Providing a discrimination-free and harassment-free workplace: 
We have a strict policy that prohibits discrimination and harassment 
based on race, religion, color, gender or any other types. Employees 
can report such situations through our compliance hotline. We will 
ensure effective protection of genuine whistleblowers against any 
form of retaliation.  
Creating a safe and healthy working environment: 
The safety and health of our employees remains as our top priority. 
In every location we operate, we strictly abide by relevant local laws 
and regulations. We have established and will continuously improve 
an occupational health and safety management system following 
ISO45001, the international standard for occupational health and safety.
Equipping employees with future employability: 
As a firm believer of 'People Capability First' , we invest in every step of 
our employees' growth trajectory to unlock their potential. We also 
offer comprehensive training to equip them with necessary skills to 
stay competitive and employable in the future workplace. Encouraging a diverse and inclusive culture: 
We are committed to fostering a diverse, inclusive and non-discriminatory 
culture for our employees. Every employee, regardless of race, religion, 
color, age, gender or gender identity, disability, sexual orientation, 
citizenship, or nationality, will be assured of equal opportunities in all 
human practices such as recruitment, employment, development,  
training, compensation and promotion.Ensuring fair compensation: 
We provide compensation and benefits to our employees above the 
regulatory minimum wage standards in various regions. We regulate labor 
practices, commit to equal pay for equal work and ensure full compliance 
with applicable local laws and industry practices relating to work hours 
and overtime.  In Yum China, we embrace the 'Fair, Care and Pride' principle and are committed to:
Prohibiting child labor and forced labor: 
We strictly abide by the labor laws and regulations of the countries 
and regions where we operate. We prohibit the use of child labor, any 
form of forced labor and human trafficking.
Respecting employees' freedom of association: 
Abiding by local laws and regulations and company policies, we 
respect employees' rights to join and form a labor union. We will 
conduct regular, open and constructive dialogues with employee 
representatives of legally recognized unions.  Engaging with the communities and stakeholders: 
We are an active advocate of human rights in the community. We 
provide gainful employment opportunities to socially vulnerable and 
disadvantaged groups including people with disabilities and migrant 
workers. We require all suppliers to sign the Yum China Supplier Code 
of Conduct. We will conduct regular independent third-party audit to 
evaluate suppliers' performance on human rights and track preventive 
and corrective actions for continuous improvement.
Yum China firmly believes that diversity, equity and 
inclusion are the cornerstones in achieving our vision of 
becoming 'the world's most innovative pioneer in the 
restaurant industry' . Our experience shows that employees 
with diverse background can contribute new perspectives 
leading to innovative thinking. We are committed to 
fostering a diverse, inclusive and non-discriminatory 
working environment for our employees while providing 
a platform for them to achieve their personal best. In our 
workplace, differences are understood, appreciated and Foster Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
encouraged. Every employee, regardless of race, religion, 
color, age, gender or gender identity, disability, sexual 
orientation, citizenship, or nationality, are provided with 
equal opportunities to achieve their personal best. In 
order to ensure the diversity, equity and inclusion in our 
workplace, the human resources department takes the 
lead role in formulating related policies and oversees their 
implementation. Training and education programs on 
diversity, equity and inclusion are offered to all employees 
on a regular basis. Adhering to the 'People First' value, Yum China firmly believes that a sustainable business can only be built on the right 
foundation: respect and protection for human rights. We comply with relevant laws, regulations and standards. We endorse 
the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and relevant international human rights conventions, including but 
not limited to the International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 
We strive to create a workplace and a community that respect and protect human rights. We proactively identify, prevent and 
mitigate human rights risks in the Company and throughout the value chain. We also take an active role in understanding 
stakeholders' concerns and expectations on human rights issues.
- -63 62
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Illustration
IllustrationIllustration
Yum China Ranked among the Top 100 Companies Globally for Gender Equality by Equileap
Mom Restaurants for Migratory ChildrenYum China Included to Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for the Fourth Consecutive Y ear
In March 2022, Equileap released its 2022 Gender Equality Global Report and Ranking. Yum China was included as one 
of the Top 100 global companies and the only one from mainland China. We are also one of the 19 companies with no 
gender pay gap, recognizing our long-term commitment to promoting gender equality.
KFC launched the first 'Mom Restaurants for Migratory Children' 
in Chongqing in March 2017. The program had been expanded 
to over 760 KFC restaurants in five provinces by the end of 2021. 
This initiative provides employment opportunities to working 
mothers who have previously been away from their children 
typically to work in the city and now would like to come back 
to their hometowns. The job offers comprehensive benefit 
schemes and, most importantly, flexible working schedules that 
enable the working mothers to strike a balance between work 
and family obligations. The program won the WEPs Community 
and Industry Participation award in 2020.In January 2022, Yum China was named in the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index (GEI) for the fourth consecutive year 
and was one of the only three companies from mainland China included in the latest GEI. Yum China continued to 
improve its performance in the GEI, especially in the areas of female leadership and talent pipeline, equal pay for equal 
work, and anti-harassment policies, with a score of 78.2 which is higher than the average value of the overall GEI.
Gender equality is a key component of diversity, equity and 
inclusion. Yum China is one of the signatories of the United 
Nations Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs), committing 
to ensuring gender equality in all human resources practices 
such as recruitment, training, and promotion. By the 
end of 2021, Yum China employed over 290,000 women, 
representing 65% of its total workforce. In addition, we 
continue to make progress in nurturing talented female 
leaders across all management levels. By the end of 2021, 
women holding director and above positions represented 
53% of our senior management workforce.
We provide regulatory benefits and care during pregnancy 
and nursing period for female employees. We have updated 
our maternity leave policy in accordance with national 
law, providing female employees with a minimum of 98 Gender Equality 
*STEM: Science, Technology, 
Engineering and 
MathematicsIn Yum China, we believe that bringing together people with diverse background will create tremendous 
value in driving innovation. Diversity and inclusiveness is fundamental for the Company to realize our vision 
to become 'the world's most innovative pioneer in the restaurant industry' . To be included in the Bloomberg 
Gender Equality Index for the fourth consecutive year is an achievement that we are proud of. This reflects our 
firm commitment to promoting equal opportunities in the workplace. 
——Joey Wat, CEO of Yum Chinaconsecutive days of maternity leave, and extended leave in 
case of special circumstances such as dystocia and multiple 
births. Male employees are also entitled to paternity leave 
during the pregnancy and nursing period of their spouses. 
We also set up dedicated mother's rooms in our workplace 
to offer privacy and comfort.
To support employees that need to take care of their aging 
parents, we have introduced a parent-care leave policy. In 
addition, we have also introduced a childcare policy for 
employees to take care of their toddlers. 
To ensure that female employees will realize their career 
potential and aspiration, we offer a series of female 
leadership training programs in order to improve their 
confidence and competitiveness in the workplace. 
In new hiresIn STEM*-related 
positions
65%62%
61% 66%
61%22% 53%
In promoted 
employees
In total employee 
turnover68%
57%
 In management 
positions 
in revenue-
generating 
functions 
 In top 
management 
positions 
In junior 
management 
positions 
In all 
management 
positions 
In the total 
workforce 
2021 Share of 
Female Employees
We annually review our compensation and 
benefits system and continually reduce the 
gender pay gap based on the principle of equal 
pay for equal work. Gender Pay Gap Statistics
Mean and median hourly gender pay gap of  
Yum China's restaurant service team0%
65 64
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Yum China strives to create a barrier-free, friendly, and inclusive 
workplace for people with disabilities. We offer over 1.5% of 
our full-time jobs to people with disabilities. As of the end of 
2021, we have employed around 2,000 staff with disabilities.
To provide gainful employment opportunities for youths with 
disabilities nationwide, Yum China launched the first 'Angel 
Restaurant' in Shenzhen in 2012. With modified equipment 
and operational processes, and customized training, our 
'angel employees' – those with special needs – can perform 
the full range of job roles. Not only can they learn new skills, 
they are also able to integrate themselves into society and 
ultimately achieve self-actualization. By the end of 2021, we 
have opened 23 'Angel Restaurants' in 22 cities, providing 
jobs for around 200 people with special needs. In 2022, 
KFC upgraded the 'Angel Restaurants' across the country 
upholding the 'Be You' brand positioning. Through an overall 
enhancement of the restaurant facilities coupled with the 
optimized operation standards, upgraded visual devices and 
the customized visual learning materials, we made the work 
process more conducive to the needs of 'angel employees' . 
The revamp showcased our care for people with disabilities, 
as well as exemplified the positive, dynamic and youthful KFC 
brand positioning. The brand-new 'Angel Restaurants' enable 
more 'angel employees' to stretch beyond what are possible 
in their life and career.Friendly and Inclusive Workplace for People with Disabilities
Group photo of Winter Olympic Committee and Yum China 
management team presenting commemorative employee 
certificates and customized nameplates to employees 
working in the Winter Olympic Village restaurants'Angel employee' Ying Mao and Aiken Yuen, Chief People Officer 
of Yum China, relay the torch of the Winter Paralympic Games
IllustrationIllustration
Yum China Employees Participated in the Beijing Winter OlympicsChasing Dreams: Becoming a Torch Bearer of the Winter Paralympic Games
In 2021, Yum China extended invitation to all employees 
including the 'angel employees' nationwide to work 
in three KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants located in the 
Winter Olympic Villages. Through the intensive selection 
process, a group of high-caliber employees were finally 
chosen to be part of this once in a lifetime event. Their 
passion and outstanding service not only showcased 
the spirits of our brands as well as the Olympics, but 
also left a lasting impression on the world-class athletes 
and officials from all over the world.
Eight 'Angel Employees' were selected to serve in 
restaurants in the Winter Olympic Villages. Their 
participation demonstrated the core value of diversity, 
equity and inclusion embedded in the 'People First' 
value that Yum China has always embraced. We have 
been providing fair opportunities, creating a diverse, Ying Mao, a young swimmer with disability 
representing her province, became one of the first 
'angel employees' for KFC in 2017. Through years 
of work, she has gained more self-confidence and 
social skills. 
In 2021, Ying took the initiative to apply through 
internal channel and succeeded in becoming a 
torch bearer for the 2022 Beijing Winter Paralympic 
Games. Her colleagues and friends were all excited 
and inspired to see that Ying realized her dream.  
Yum China is committed to a recruitment strategy to attract talent with diverse background, believing that everyone has 
tremendous potential. Every year, we attract tens of thousands of high-caliber talent locally and abroad to inject new blood to 
the team. We organize campus recruitment campaigns and innovation contests all over the country, through which we reinforce 
a strong employer brand of Yum China as a diverse and innovative company. The use of Artificial Intelligence (AI), Virtual Reality 
(VR), Location-Based Services (LBS) and other technologies on our recruitment channels highly enhanced our recruitment 
efficiency and candidate experience.
equal, and inclusive working environment, and 
supporting employees to pursue their dreams with 
great courage and determination.
Technology Powering Diversified Recruitment
Campus Recruitment and Innovation Campaign
To support the Company's accelerated store opening, we have launched a three-year national campus recruitment campaign 
called 'The Yummy Bazaar' targeting hundreds of colleges and universities to attract candidates from all over the country with 
all walks of life to join as operations management trainees. The campaign involves immersive roadshows, innovation contests 
called 'The Perfect Restaurant Manager' and live streaming of career talks around the country. The live tour attracted nearly one 
million viewers and the contests collected thousands of creative ideas for becoming 'The Perfect Restaurant Manager' . 
Poster of 'Yummy Bazaar' National Campus Recruitment Campaign
67 66
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
We have launched a series of recruitment programs in line with Yum 
China's culture and values to attract our targeted candidate groups.
Marketing and supply chain are two of Yum China's core functions delivering our competitive 
advantage. To attract graduates locally and abroad who are passionate to pursue a career in 
these disciplines, a 2-to-3-year fast-tracked development program has been designed for their 
management trainees. Through tailored job rotations, targeted training and stretch assignment, 
they can quickly gain a holistic understanding of our businesses and build a solid foundation for 
catapulting themselves to become industry experts. Marketing and Supply Chain Management Trainee Programs
The Fast-Pass to Restaurant Program aims 
at providing outstanding operations interns 
with opportunities to be offered full-time 
positions. Through the systematic 'Champion 
Development Program' and one-on-one 
mentoring, they can become operations 
management trainees immediately after 
graduation. In as short as 18 months, they 
can be fast tracked to the Restaurant General 
Manager role. This program enables Yum 
China to build a deep talent pool to support 
the accelerated store expansion. Fast-Pass to Restaurant Program
The Vitality Program aims at encouraging 
employees to rotate to emerging brands 
and participate in new business initiatives. 
It helps accelerate growth of these brands, 
invigorate the talent pool and boost the 
organizational vitality. Employees can apply 
for the positions based on their preference 
and accept challenging assignment for their 
personal development. Vitality Program
In September 2021, KFC and Pizza Hut kicked off a 
corporate-university cooperation scheme with Beijing 
University of Agriculture and Beijing College of Finance and 
Commerce. It offers the students with the opportunity to 
access occupational training to expand their employment 
options. Meanwhile, we can convey our corporate culture 
and brand concepts during the interaction. 
Corporate-University Cooperation 
IllustrationYum China Launched Corporate-University Cooperation Plans with Two Universities in BeijingYum China actively supports fresh graduates without any real work experience in their transition into the workplace. We create 
communication channels to reach out to targeted candidates on campus and prepare them for future careers. In partnership 
with universities, the Company offers occupational skill training and career counseling to students, achieving a win-win outcome 
through which the university can fulfil their job placement requirements while the company can attract talented candidates.
Deepen Cooperation with Universities
Yum China Management Trainees
In December 2021, we cooperated with Shenzhen 
Polytechnic to bring a 16-week business leadership 
training to students. The program covers four business 
dimensions with 11 courses to equip students 
with necessary knowledge to become professional 
managers in the future.
YUMC Cup Award Ceremony
IllustrationYum China Launched Yum Class with Shenzhen Polytechnic
69 68
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
To reach out to more qualified candidate, we launched a recruitment referral campaign 
in which incentives are offered to persons making candidate recommendation or 
forwarding our job advertisements. This initiative has resulted in an increase in the 
number of resumes received. Recruitment Referral 
CampaignTo improve the candidate experience during the interviews as well as recruitment efficiency, 
we invite candidates to VR interviews to immerse themselves into the restaurant setting and 
challenges of daily tasks through a custom-built simulation. The candidates' on-the-spot reaction 
can be calibrated objectively against the selection criteria. VR Gamification 
Selection InterviewsTo optimize the resume screening process from a massive pool and improve recruitment 
efficiency for 10,000 operations management trainee positions, Yum China developed an AI 
model for preliminary screening of candidates' resumes, coupled with human calibration. Resume Screening 
with AI Technology
As Yum China expands our footprint across the country, we have to ensure recruitment of 
front-line employees can cover a wide geography. With job vacancies displayed in the form of a 
map using LBS, candidates can conveniently find job opportunities in their preferred locations. 
This practice enables potential candidates to enjoy a more efficient job-searching experience 
and increase our recruitment success rate. Location-Based 
Services (LBS) 
TechnologyYum China always believes in 'People Capability First' . 
We actively invest in every step in employees' growth, a 
cornerstone of our sustainable organization development. 
With our advanced training system, we continue to 
encourage our employees to realize their potential, ensure 
their employability and develop innovative talent for the 
industry. We have established an industry-leading operations Unlock Individual Potential and Accelerate Growth
Innovative and Comprehensive Training System
Yum China Training System
Restaurant 
Management TeamThrough the KFC Business School and Pizza Hut Management Institute, a new restaurant 
management trainee can become a restaurant general manager (RGM) in as short as 18 
months. Continuous on-the-job training will eventually grow them into all-rounded leaders.
Frontline Supervisor 
and Individual 
ContributorThe mentoring program offers personal effectiveness and leadership coaching from 
experienced leaders to high-performing employees who are currently frontline 
supervisors or individual contributors. The program will pave the way for their transition to 
management positions.
Market General 
ManagerTo develop business leadership of Market General Managers and support regional strategic 
growth, Yum China has established the Market General Manager Training Summit. The 
program combines classroom training, on-the-job coaching and site visit to companies in other 
industry, allowing participants to enhance their capability in digital transformation, leadership 
empowerment and decision making, and fostering an innovation culture.
Brand Operations 
ManagementThe District Manager Designation (DMD) development program provides job-related skill 
training to mid-level operations leaders in order to enhance their core competencies for further 
career development.
Middle ManagementThe Mini-MBA program strengthens mid-level management's capabilities in innovation and 
leadership with a particular focus on people development. 
Senior ManagementThe training program for senior management aims at enhancing their insight on the 
macro-economy and its implication to the business as well as mastery of organizational 
leadership. The training will greatly enhance their capability in strategic decision-making to 
drive the long-term development of the Company.To attract over 10,000 young talent to the operations team every year, we continue to expand recruitment channels, 
improve recruitment efficiency and optimize the candidate experience. We deploy a number of cutting-edge technologies 
into the recruitment process, such as artificial intelligence (AI) for resume screening, virtual reality (VR) gamification for 
selection interviews, and location based services (LBS) technology to achieve seamless integration between people and the 
machine. In 2021, Yum China won the HR Excellence Center (HREC) Recruiting & Staffing Value Awards for our outstanding 
practices in innovation for talent selection and recruitment channel.
Innovative Digital Technology 
talent development system to ensure nearly 100% of the 
operations positions are filled by promotion from within. 
Through a fair and transparent career development path, 
Yum China provides clear guidance and training for 
employees to fulfil skill requirements at different stages of 
their careers.71 70
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
The KFC Business School and the Pizza Hut Management Institute 
are two signature programs that provide systematic training 
and development opportunities to employees in the restaurant 
operations system, aiming for building up the operational talent 
pool and laying a solid foundation to support future growth of the 
brands. A new college graduate can advance from a restaurant 
Yum China offers a wide range of training courses and learning 
resources to employees both online and offline. Our training 
programs have particularly tapped into digitalization trends 
through our custom-built mobile learning platform to equip 
employees with the knowledge and skills required in the digital 
era. In 2021, we launched a series of training courses focusing 
on extracting insight and know-how from best practices of 
Yum China so that participants can turn them into teachable 
knowledge for training other employees within the Company. KFC Business School and Pizza Hut Management Institute
Digitally Powered Training PlatformThe prep-course is tailored for students 
with modular and targeted training 
that allows them to accumulate 
required knowledge and skills at their 
convenience. After completion of the 
training, they will be offered a higher 
starting pay and better promotion 
prospect. The program offers a developmental 
training for operations management 
trainees to progress into RGMs. With 
comprehensive training modules 
powered by a digital platform, 
employees can acquire critical skills 
and be fast tracked into the role of 
RGM and beyond. The program aims at developing 
our operations leaders to acquire 
cross-functional, cross-brand and 
cross-industry knowledge and 
experience in the retail space 
so that they are equipped with 
international perspective and 
eventually become all-rounded 
leaders in the industry.
*The 70-20-10 learning model is often used to define the ideal balance for people development:  70% from on-the-job experiences or challenging 
assignment, 20% from developmental coaching and feedback, and 10% from classroom training.KFC Business School Development ProgramTotal expense on training and development The average expense per Full-time Equivalent 
(FTE) on training and developmentRMB RMB 456,000,000 3,000 Amount spent on training and development
Number of employees trained by type of employmentTraining and development hours
Employees participating in training by genderTotal training and development hoursHours 12,000,000
Average hours per Full-time Equivalent (FTE) 
on training and developmentHours54
Full-time Persons 147,000 Part-time Persons 303,000 
Male35% Female65%
KFC Talent Prep-courseRestaurant Pioneer 
Development ProgramRetail Operational 
Leadership Program
Yum China encourages employees to further their education and 
upgrade their professional skills. In cooperation with the Open 
University of China, the YUMC College program offers sponsorship to 
employees for their further education, especially in pursuing a qualified 
college degree. Continuing Education Program
By the end of 2021, the program had been rolled out to 20 cities 
and 3,800 employees were granted subsidies and achieved higher 
education degrees. Scholarships are also available for eligible 
employees for their postgraduate study. 
 Lavazza EmployeesIn 2021
management trainee to a restaurant general manager (RGM) in 
as short as 18 months by participating in these programs and 
acquiring the operational, financial and managerial skills required 
for operating a restaurant. RGMs can also attend further training 
courses to further their development. Taking the KFC Business 
School as an example:
Based on the 70-20-10 principle*, the project adopts 
'learning-by-doing' approach. Participants will complete 
stretch assignment with coaching throughout the learning 
process. The project eventually resulted in 24 high-quality 
courses, covering a wide range of topics such as operations 
efficiency, team management, personal efficiency, 
digitalization and social marketing.  73 72
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
We provide targeted development opportunities for employees 
to realize their career aspiration because career development 
is the best way to retain talent. Our career development path, 
known internally as 'Bench Planning' , has enabled Yum China to 
promote most operational leaders from within.
90% of Yum China's workforce is from operations. We have 
designed a fair and transparent career path for them, through 
which they can progress from operations management trainees 
In December 2021, KFC officially launched the YUMC 
'Angel College' Program in Guangzhou and Shenzhen. 
Supported by the cooperative efforts of institutions that 
assist people with disabilities, KFC devised innovative 
models for angel employees (employees with disabilities) 
to receive continuing education and improve their 
vocational skills through the Open University of China. 
They will start their campus life in the fall of 2022 in their 
pursuit of a college degree. KFC also provides internship 
and employment opportunities to students with 
disabilities studying in vocational colleges so that they 
can develop work-place skills. 
Promotion rate for the restaurant management team Promotion rate for office employees
Promotion rateManagement 
TraineeAssistant 
ManagerSenior 
Deputy 
ManagerArea Manager 
& District 
ManagerRestaurant 
General 
ManagerMarket 
General 
Managerto higher positions such as RGMs and even Market General 
Managers. Many of the Company's top executives, including 
General Manager of KFC, Chief Supply Chain Officer, Chief 
Development Officer and most of the Market General Managers 
started their career in Yum China from a front-line operations 
role. We expect that 'Bench Planning' will help build up a talent 
pool to fulfil our fast-growing demand for talent. In 2021, 42% 
of our restaurant management team gained a promotion.
Development and PromotionYum China 'Angel College' Program 'Angel employee' 
Li Lu Holding the 
Admission LetterIllustrationYum China 'Angel College' Program
42% 14%
At Yum China, we advocate the concept that every employee should 'own your development' and every leader should 
'coach others to succeed' . It is extremely important for each employee to have a clear career goal and to regularly receive 
honest feedback on their performance. Yum China has established a performance management system called the People 
Planning Process (PPP). The PPP guarantees that the core objectives of the Company, functions, teams and individuals are 
totally aligned. On the other hand, employees will continue to upgrade their skills with stretch assignment and expanded 
job responsibilities. By reviewing the development goals of employees across different levels, the PPP identifies critical 
talent, tracks their development and formulates targeted follow-up plans. The PPP consists of three stages:Coach to Succeed, Own Y our Development
Employees should understand the 
business goals of the company 
as well as those of their own 
functions. They will then set  
individual performance goals (also 
known as 'blue chips') focusing on 
step changes they plan to make 
in the year within their areas of 
responsibility. Employees will receive comprehensive 
and constructive 360° feedback from 
their supervisors, subordinates, fellow 
colleagues and internal customers. 
In conjunction with their supervisors, 
employees will formulate targeted 
individual development plans to 
improve required skills for long-term 
career development. The Company 
will provide necessary resource to 
support employees' development 
plans.Employees will receive a fair and 
objective evaluation of their 
performance through the year. 
The results will be an important 
consideration for each function 
when carrying out relevant 
human resources actions for the 
next year.Beginning of the year
 - Target SettingMiddle of the year - 360° Feedback,   
Individual Development Plan (IDP) 
& Target UpdateEnd of the year 
- Performance Appraisal
Yum China believes in 'Pay for Performance' and is committed 
to equal pay for equal work. We provide employees with fair 
and competitive compensation and benefits based on annual 
market research, recognizing and rewarding their contributions, 
performance, and efforts.
To further reinforce Founder's Mentality and share the fruits of 
business success, we have launched equity incentive schemes such 
as CEO Awards and RGM Restricted Stock Units (RSUs). The scheme 
of RGM RSUs is part of Yum China's longstanding commitment to 
its RGM No. 1 culture. Yum China believes that RGMs are the most 
important leaders and key contributors to our long-term success. Reward Performance and Share the Fruit of Success
In 2016, Yum China announced a grant of RSUs valued at $2,000 
to each qualified RGM. As of the end of 2021, this program had 
allowed more than 10,700 RGMs to become shareholders of Yum 
China. In addition, the Company granted RSUs valued at $3,000 to 
all eligible RGMs starting in February 2021, covering approximately 
3,500 RGMs.
In order to incentivize the efforts of core employees and 
contributors of Lavazza joint venture driving the business plan of 
Lavazza, including a target to open 1,000 Lavazza stores in China 
by 2025, an ESOP plan has been established. 
75 74
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Since 2020, the pandemic outbreak has been creating huge impact on the restaurant industry and its employees. Despite this 
challenge, Yum China has continued to make the health and livelihood of our employees a top priority through increasing 
investments in their welfare. In 2021, Yum China upgraded the YUMC Care benefits plan, focusing on personal health, family 
health, social health, and financial health. This is one of the most extensive employee benefits plans in the industry in China in 
terms of the number of people covered by it. The enhanced benefits are expected to cover around 100,000 front-line employees 
and their family members.
In line with relevant labor laws and regulations, we provide full-time employees with pension insurance, medical insurance, 
unemployment insurance, work injury insurance, and maternity insurance, supplemented by additional commercial insurance.  
Employees are also entitled to paid leave in accordance with labor laws.
YUMC Care offers employees benefits tailored to their life stage and individual needs: Enhance Employee Care and Benefits
YUMC Care: Committed to providing practical support to our employees.
RMB 1 Million Medical Insurance Coverage: offers enhanced medical insurance coverage of up to RMB 1 million 
covering 50 minor illnesses and 103 critical illnesses to mitigate the financial burden brought about by unfortunate 
cases of critical illnesses. 
Family Care Program: provides supplementary insurance for the children, spouse and parents of eligible RGMs, i.e. 
adding accident insurance for children and spouse and critical illness insurance for their parents to the existing 
comprehensive family business insurance, with the critical illness coverage further increased to $200,000. 
Housing Subsidy: provides eligible RGMs with housing subsidy on home purchase loans and interest-free loans to 
improve their living conditions.
Family Care Fund: Yum China as a company is committed to providing support to employees' families in need. The Company 
sets up 'Family Care Fund' for RMT employees providing additional critical illness coverage for their parents as well as 
additional accident insurance coverage for their children and spouses. In 2021, Yum China further upgraded the 'Family Care 
Fund' , raising the critical illness insurance coverage for employees and their families to RMB 150,000 and setting up express 
channels for employees and their families to access medical treatment. Besides, the program coverage was extended to 
restaurant service team leaders, helping them mitigate the financial burden brought about by critical illnesses.
We expanded our flexible benefits platform in 2021 to cover more than 6,000 employees, allowing employees to select 
and enjoy benefits, including family medical insurance, medical examination, and recreational activities, based on their 
individual needs. Office employees are also covered by the housing subsidy scheme.Restaurant General Managers (RGMs)
Restaurant management team (RMT) and restaurant service team
Office employees
In addition, we also offer a variety of activities for employees, including YUMC Club, National Badminton Competition, Family 
Day, RGM Convention, Restaurant Management Team's Annual Party, RSC Annual Party, Market Spring Luncheon, YUMC Youth 
Program (for children's education), 'One Yuan Donation' Program and other charity activities. 
To alleviate employees' stress and anxiety during the pandemic, Yum China has launched the Employee Assistance Program 
(EAP) which provides professional counseling and educational sessions on physical and mental health. The EAP provides stress 
management tips for employees under quarantine to strengthen their psychological resilience. 
In 2022, during the pandemic lockdown in Shanghai, Yum China delivered food package to over 10,000 full-time employees 
in Shanghai to meet their urgent needs. We have also actively provided support and care to our employees who have 
unfortunately contracted COVID-19.
YUMC Care Employees Welfare Plan Yum China 'Fighting Pandemic 
with Love' CampaignEmployee Assistance Program
77 76
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Protecting health and safety of employees is the Company's top priority. We have established the Yum China Occupational 
Health and Safety (OH&S) Management System. It provides the necessary education, training, equipment and resource to ensure 
that our employees, customers and partners fully understand and abide by our related policies and guidelines. We have also 
clearly defined the structure and accountabilities for the effective management of OH&S in Yum China. 
We have established an OH&S Management Committee, together with representation of management, employees and the 
project team members. The structure ensures that every member of Yum China will have a sense of ownership to participate in 
the Company's OH&S management. 
The Company actively promotes continuous improvement in OH&S management. We make every effort to provide our 
employees, customers and partners with a safe and healthy environment while serving safe and delicious food. To this end, we 
commit to:The principle applies to all business premises of Yum China. It should be cascaded to other parties such as regulators, employees, 
customers and partners.
Restaurant Safety
We have strict health and safety measures in place to protect our employees in restaurants, especially those who perform work that 
poses higher or distinct risks. We regularly inspect and upgrade employees' protective equipment, conduct workplace safety review, 
and train all employees on operational procedures and safety precautions.
The equipment used in our restaurants satisfies requirements imposed by relevant national laws and regulations. We ensure that 
all equipment has been examined and tested by Yum China Equipment R&D and Testing Center against our acceptance standards. 
Pilot in real restaurant environment is required before full deployment. Meanwhile, our restaurant training such as online videos and 
Standard Operating Procedure for equipment, help ensure that all employees are skilled at operating and maintaining equipment so 
as to minimize risks on their health or safety. Appropriate fire 
detection and alarm 
systems;
Appropriate and 
adequate fire-fighting 
equipment;Appropriate escape instructions, 
including clear signage and 
assembly points;
Education and training on fire 
safety to all employees.
Comprehensive 
evacuation procedures;
Yum China is fully aware of the importance of fire safety and 
its responsibility to comply with relevant regulations. Fire 
risk assessments are conducted for all workplaces operated 
by Yum China. Risk assessments will be completed by 
designated personnel or third parties, who will also define 
fire risk precaution measures to abide by related laws and 
regulations. In addition, each workplace will provide mandated 
maintenance of fire-fighting systems to ensure the reliability of 
all the fire safety equipment. At all premises operated by Yum 
China, we will provide:Eliminate Fire Risks to Ensure Workplace Safety
Providing a safe and healthy working 
environment for our employees is 
considered one of the Company's 
primary responsibilities.Listening to voices of employees 
is a key step for us to continuously 
improve our performance in OH&S 
management. Working closely with our customers 
and partners to create a safe and 
healthy environment lays the  
foundation for us to achieve excellence 
in business.Safety Mania People First Collaborate to Win
Yum China OH&S Principle
Yum China regularly carries out various forms of 
activities to build awareness of occupational health 
and safety hazards, and offer necessary training to all 
employees, so that they can consciously avoid risks 
in production and other business activities and thus 
reduce work-related injuries.Yum China identifies the sources of 
OH&S-related risks in our business 
premises, and takes proactive  
measures to manage those risks 
in order to reduce accident rates. 
Prevention is better than cure.Yum China believes that safety 
management is everyone's job and 
everyone should take ownership 
in it. We will proactively listen to 
suggestions and feedback through 
different channels from employees, 
customers and partners on OH&S 
management. 
Yum China has established an OH&S Management 
Committee to monitor and track the progress 
against established goals to promote the continuous 
improvement of the system and its targeted  
performance. The goals include employees' physical 
examination coverage,  lost-time injury frequency rate 
per million hours worked and OH&S training rate. Yum China strictly abides by relevant local laws and regulations. 
Leveraging ISO45001, the international standard for OH&S, the 
Company has established a compliant OH&S management system that 
will continue to evolve to ensure safe operations.  
Proactive 
Listening
Culture 
BuildingContinuous 
ImprovementPrevention 
FirstCompliant 
OperationsOur Vision: We are committed to creating a safe and healthy working environment
Ensure Safety and Health First
Occupational Health and Safety Management79
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
78We believe that 'the more you know, the more you care' . Yum 
China maintains multiple communication channels, such as 
RGM Convention and Founders' Day, with employees to deliver 
corporate messages and collect valuable feedback from them. 
Employee engagement survey and employee representative 
forum are also effective ways to have two-way dialogues with 
our employees. In addition, we share our business strategies 
and corporate messages leveraging various digital platforms 
such as corporate WeChat, apps, and intranet portals.Channels are made available for employees to give feedback 
and express their opinions. Meanwhile, management also 
needs to understand employees' concerns and take necessary 
corrective actions if needed. Employee engagement survey is 
conducted once every two years, using the Kincentric model* 
to identify key areas for improvement. Employees are invited 
to respond to the survey questionnaire anonymously. After 
the survey, we will organize focus group interviews and drill 
down on key issues for action planning.  In 2021, our employee 
engagement score was at 70%.
In recent years, Yum China has made great efforts on fostering 
agile innovation. With much progress made in the digitalization, 
it is also our obligation and responsibility to protect employees' 
personal information and privacy. We have developed the 
Data Security Code of Conduct in accordance with laws and 
regulations concerning cybersecurity, data privacy and security. Protect Personal Information and Privacy 
We will not provide sensitive personal information to any third 
party without the consent of the individual to whom such 
personal data pertains. We also provide data security and 
privacy training to employees in order to prevent unintended 
disclosure at work and in their daily life. 
IllustrationData Security Day
On July 22, 2021, Yum China held the Data Security 
24-Hour Challenge to provide our employees with 
training on data security. The activities on this Data 
Security theme day helped employees discover 
hidden data security risks in different scenarios, 
heightening their awareness on privacy security risks. 
Data Security 24-Hour Challenge
IllustrationPizza Hut Employee Pulse Survey Project
In addition to the once-every-two-year engagement survey, the brands also conduct employee pulse surveys to 
collect instant feedback from the front-line. Improvement actions will be implemented to address identified issues. 
For example, Pizza Hut conducts the employee pulse survey every 6 months. Apart from solving relevant problems 
identified, continuous effort is made to improve the survey in terms of questionnaire design, survey execution, data 
analysis, and response procedures based on employees' feedback.Build an Engaging Team
*Kincentric model is used around the world to facilitate benchmarking against other companies. Key drivers of employee experience are 
identified, including organizational agility, leadership, talent focus, infrastructure, and work experience, all of which impact employees' 
experience and thus the Company's performance.* **The number does not include casualties that are not attributed to work. From 2018 to 2021, the total number of work-related 
fatalities for employees of Yum China continued to be
0
Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) per million 
hours worked in 2021
(n/million hours worked)0.99
Annual physical examination coverage of restaurant 
management team and office employeesHealth Certificate coverage of restaurant employees
RGM Convention* **81
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Respect Employees' Freedom of Association 
To safeguard the interests and rights of employees and accelerate the Company's development, an independent labor union 
was established with the support of The All-China Federation of Trade Unions in 2010 and as of the end of 2021, over 90% of our 
employees had joined the union. 
For over 12 years, Yum China Labor Union has played an active role in caring for its members, liaison with management on 
labor relations, and abiding by relevant regulations and procedures. It serves as an important bridge to foster collaborative 
relationship between the Company and the employees. In the future, Yum China will continue to work closely with Yum China 
Labor Union to maintain a conducive and harmonious working environment guided by the principle of 'Fair, Care and Pride' .Customer Relationship Management
Improving Customers' Experience
'Customer Mania' is one of key elements of Yum China's culture.  We strive to gather customer insights in order to meet their 
needs and lead the market. We serve every customer with a 'YES' attitude to create delightful experiences. Integrating delicious 
food, technology, and culture, we constantly strive to improve customer experience with an ongoing pursuit of innovation. 
Fully aware that our operations have substantial economic, social 
and environmental impact, Yum China is always committed to 
creating a responsible ecosystem. We are dedicated to offering 
a wide variety of delicious and nutritious food choices to our 
customers as well as promoting a balanced and healthy diet 
nationwide. Meanwhile, we regularly collaborate with scientific 
institutions to support scientific research and promote dietary 
health.
To continuously strengthen our responsible business model, we 
have formulated the Yum China Responsible Marketing Policy to 
ensure the Company's compliance with relevant laws, regulations 
and business ethics standards in our stakeholder engagement 
and marketing promotion activities, and to reflect Yum China's 
We seek every opportunity to improve customer experience and collect customer 
feedback via multiple channels, including online surveys, online community 
panels, focus groups, one-on-one interviews, and offline surveys. We conduct in-
depth research to investigate market trends. We have cooperated with several 
companies and brands to promote co-branded products, which are popular 
among customers. In order to respond to fast-changing customer demands and 
keep up with the latest trends, we have catered to local tastes to launch regional 
menus and themed products, which have been well received by customers.
We also use the Guest Experience Survey (GES) system to collect customers' 
feedback, which includes the forwarding of detailed feedback to relevant 
restaurants for further improvement. In 2021, we have upgraded our AI NLP 
(Natural Language Processing) analysis system, enhancing the accuracy from 400 
meanings to over 600 meanings, which significantly enhances systems' capability 
to capture accurate feedback from customer messages and thus optimize our 
customer feedback collection process.
Our Customer Service Platform (CSP) will automatically push message to the 
customer who give low ratings through GES system for further tracking and 
follow-up. Customers can also file complaints on the CSP either by scanning the 
QR code provided in restaurants or by logging onto our app. We also formulate 
standards for handling customer complaints, including clearly designating a 
responsible person and time to guarantee timely feedback and response. We also 
provide restaurant employees with training programs on customer complaint 
management to ensure timely and proper handling of complaints.Responsible Marketing
Customer Servicecommitments to sustainable development. Our responsible 
marketing policy applies to all marketing communication contents 
published by Yum China and all the brands. 
We have also established a Marketing Communication Committee 
composed of multiple function teams including Food Innovation, 
Food Safety, Quality & Nutrition, Legal, Procurement Management, 
Public Affairs, Marketing and Brand Engagement. The assessment 
and review process of the Committee ensures our marketing 
communication contents are accurate and legitimate, and 
compliant with the Yum China Responsible Marketing Policy. In 
addition, we regularly conduct responsible marketing training 
for relevant employees to ensure that they are kept abreast of the 
latest audit requirements and relevant law and regulation updates.
Co-branded Products
Regional Menus and Specialty Products
80Protecting the health and 
wellbeing of the restaurant 
management team and 
full-time restaurant service 
teamReviewing the formulation 
and revision of regulations and 
policies related to employees' 
rights and interestsProviding professional counseling 
and educational sessions to  
promote employees' physical and 
mental health awarenessProviding online learning resources Providing emergency assistance 
to support front-line employees
Family Care Fund Employee Representative ForumEmployee Assistance Program (EAP) Mobile Learning PlatformEmployee Assistance FundWith the active support of Yum China Labor Union, Yum China has established:
On November 9, 2021, Yum Restaurants Consulting 
(Shanghai) Company Ltd. held the Fourth Employee 
Representative Forum. Employee representatives 
reviewed and discussed revised policies related to 
occupational health and safety, personal information 
security and privacy protection.Illustration
The Fourth Employee Representative Forum82
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Intelligent Service
Digitalization has revolutionized the restaurant industry 
over the past five years. As a pioneer in leading digital 
transformation, Yum China has firmly seized the  
opportunities brought by intelligent service. We have 
invested in digital transformation since 2015 and have 
built a comprehensive intelligent management system 
including marketing, supply chain, restaurant operations, 
and customer service by employing digital technology such 
as big data and AI. We strive to provide intelligent service to 
customers, digitally empowering their dining experience. 
Information Security
We have arrived in the information age where we 
continue to use digital technologies to improve the 
customer experience and drive business growth. To this 
end, protecting information security and managing the 
data privacy of our customers are top priorities for us.
The Company have established a Data Compliance 
Committee composed of key representatives from key 
functions to review our data compliance management 
program. To support our daily operations involving 
data security, with our employees and with third-
party suppliers, and to mitigate relevant risks, we have 
developed the Yum China Security Compliance Guidelines 
and the Data Security Code of Conduct in accordance with 
the Data Security Law of the People's Republic of China, 
the Personal Information Protection Law of the People's 
Republic China and other relevant laws and regulations. 
In 2021, we updated our Data Security Code of Conduct  
and made provisions for employees' conduct involving 
sensitive data and materials. We are also strengthening 
information security training and providing online information security training and corresponding exams 
for all employees, as well as third-party suppliers. All 
employees are required to have a sound awareness of 
data security protection to ensure full compliance, and to 
prohibit the unauthorized transmission of sensitive data 
and information to third parties.
Yum China's Zeus Platform is our core platform for 
information security protection and management. We've 
also established a corresponding data security operations 
mechanism to track and handle suspicious behaviors.
Our information security management system was 
certified by the ISO/IBC 27001:2013 certification in 
2021. The KFC app and website passed the Multi-level 
Protection of Information Security (MLPS) of the Ministry 
of Public Security. In January 2022, the KFC app also 
passed the Communication Network Security Protection 
Management Classification of the Ministry of Industry and 
Information Technology and was classified as Level-3.Since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, brands operated 
by Yum China have provided contactless delivery, order 
and takeaway service nationwide, to contribute to the 
fight against the pandemic through our innovative and 
intelligent service and safeguard the health and safety of our 
employees and customers while allowing our customers to 
continue enjoying our delicious food. 
Illustration Yum China Participated in the 5th World Intelligence Congress
On May 20, 2021, KFC and Pizza Hut became partners 
of the 5th World Intelligence Congress held in Tianjin, 
cooperating with other institutions to demonstrate 
intelligent application scenarios and intelligent mobile devices such as 5G mobile food trucks and robot waiters, 
enabling customers to fully experience intelligent service 
and reflecting the ongoing scientific and technological 
development within the restaurant industry.
5G Food Trucks Robot Waiters
83
Yum China Inaugurates Digital R&D Center to Further Implement Digital Strategy
On October 20, 2021, Yum China announced the opening of its Digital R&D Center with three sites in Shanghai, 
Nanjing, and Xi'an. The inauguration of the Digital R&D Center represents an important milestone for the Company's 
strategy to build a dynamic digital ecosystem. The Digital R&D Center will bolster Yum China's in-house digital 
capabilities across various functions that drive end-to-end digitalization.
To improve Super Apps, 
mini programs and 
membership programs 
to provide higher quality 
service and customer 
experienceTo upgrade systems and 
tools for more efficient 
operations and decision 
making, such as our digital 
tools for restaurant general 
managers, 'Pocket Manager' 
and 'Super Brain.'To further optimize 
delivery order queuing, 
trade zones, and rider 
routingTo enhance food 
safety and streamline 
operations from farm to 
fork
Digital R&D CenterEvolving customer behavior, such as increased off-
premise dining, and the Company's accelerated 
development, place more demand on our R&D 
capabilities. We believe the establishment of the Digital 
R&D Center will significantly strengthen Yum China's 
internal digital capabilities and support sustainable 
business growth by using advanced technology for real 
life applications.
——Leila Zhang, 
Chief Technology Officer of Yum ChinaCustomer-facing 
services and productsStore operations Smart deliverySupply chain 
managementIllustration
85
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Supply Chain Social Impact
As the largest restaurant company in China, we are aware of the impact of our sourcing decisions on the industry. We are committed 
to driving responsible sourcing practice and building a responsible supply chain in collaboration with our supplier partners.
We set expectations of social and environmental compliance for suppliers. Suppliers are required to acknowledge and sign the Yum 
China Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC) before they work with us to ensure that they are legally compliant with all applicable laws and 
regulations. 
Supplier CSR Audit
Local SourcingIn 2017, we initiated supplier Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) audit to constantly promote social responsibility and to 
address risks across the supply chain. We engage professional 
third-party auditing firms to conduct CSR audits annually. 
Yum China CSR audit framework and evaluation criteria are 
developed with reference to applicable national laws and 
regulations as well as international standards. It covers areas 
such as child / minor labor, forced labor, working hours, wages 
and benefits, health and safety, security and environmental 
management. The framework and evaluation criteria are 
reviewed and updated regularly as appropriate. In 2021, we 
started to include suppliers' efforts of energy-saving and GHG 
emissions reduction into CSR audit. We provide trainings to suppliers prior to the audit to 
strengthen their awareness and enhance their capabilities 
to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Suppliers 
would receive a rating based on issues identified during the 
audit and they are required to submit detailed corrective and 
preventive action plans (CAPAP) for continuous improvement. 
In 2021, 100% of suppliers submitted CAPAP after audits.  
Suppliers' CSR and Business Continuity Management (BCM) 
are also key priorities in our supply chain management, 
together with other KPIs such as innovation, cost optimization, 
quality and safety, which are also regularly evaluated and 
summarized in our business review.
Yum China is working to increase local procurement to build a 
more stable, efficient, and sustainable supply chain and address 
risks related to food safety and the environment, as well as to 
actively shoulder our social responsibilities. We have been continuously seeking cooperation opportunities 
with local suppliers for rapid market response. We encourage 
overseas suppliers to expand operations in China to ensure 
the consistency of product quality and improve our cost 
competitiveness in the local market. *Yum China sorts all suppliers into four categories - innovative suppliers, key suppliers, regular suppliers, and other suppliers – based on their 
innovative capabilities, key raw materials, and procurement volume. Among them, innovative suppliers and key suppliers are our critical 
suppliers, providing us with critical raw materials and services
Our local suppliers covered 
About of our suppliers were in China, playing a positive role in boosting local economic 
development, employment, and taxation.As of the end of 2021
provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions 21
99.1%4 42021 CSR Audit Result
CAPAP (corrective action 
and preventive action plan) 
submission after the audit100%
Supplier online training 
participation100%
Score ≥ 90/100 AND without any critical issue
Valid for 24 months
80/100 ≤ Score ≤ 90/100 AND without any critical issue
Valid for 12 months
Score < 80/100 OR with any critical issue
Requires immediate remediation and a re-audit. If 
the supplier is still graded C in the follow-up audit, 
it is considered high risk, and Yum China carefully 
reviews the partnership.CSR Ratings: A-grading
CSR Ratings: B-grading
CSR Ratings: C-grading
4%
88%
8%
84In 2021
CSR audits covered nearly 400  suppliers, including 100%  critical suppliers*.
Evaluation Criteria of 
Yum China 
CSR AuditsChild Labor/ Minor Worker
DiscriminationForced Labor
Health and SafetyWages and BenefitsPunishment, 
Harassment and Abuse
Working HoursBusiness EthicsLegal Employment
Security Guard
 (manufacturing companies)Grievance and Feedback
Environmental Management 
CSR Management System87 86
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Community
As an integral part of our society, companies have 
the responsibility to contribute to sustainable 
development. Yum China always attaches great 
importance to corporate social responsibility and 
strives to give back to local communities and 
continuously support their development. For 14 
years, we have been helping to improve the nutrition 
of children in remote rural areas, and we have also 
contributed to rural revitalization by supporting the 
development of local industries. We endeavor to 
promote educational equity by providing quality 
digital education opportunities for young people 
and offering financial support to college students 
in need. We care for children in our communities 
and frontline workers, creating a positive and 
harmonious community atmosphere. At the same 
time, we passionately promote local culture and 
advocate for healthy and active lifestyles. Through 
our continued efforts, we have helped popularize the 
concepts of 'Everyone does good' and 'Doing good 
everywhere' . Yum China will continue to fulfill its social 
responsibility, vision, and purpose as a leader in the 
restaurant industry in China, and work with all parts of 
society to help create a better future.
Highly Relevant
Moderately Relevant
Culture and 
SportsCommon Prosperity Equal Access to 
EducationCommunity CarePrimary Focus89
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Common Prosperity
In response to the common prosperity agenda of the Chinese government, Yum China is committed to proactively promoting 
sustainable rural development. Through programs like the One Yuan Donation program and the Pizza Hut Grow Local Initiative, 
we continue our efforts on improving child nutrition in remote rural areas and strive to help develop local industries to 
contribute to rural revitalization.
One Yuan Donation 
Since launching One Yuan Donation with the China 
Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) in 2008, Yum 
China has continued to raise donations from the community, 
leveraging our nationwide restaurants, online ordering 
system, and newly developed channels to make it easier 
for customers to donate towards improving child nutrition 
in remote rural areas. The One Yuan Donation program 
keeps being a priority in Yum China's philanthropic efforts 
to support rural development. We believe that fostering 
healthy growth for children, particularly in remote rural 
areas, requires sustained efforts and continued dedication 
by us and the general public, which also aligns with the 
priorities of the Chinese government's National Nutrition 
Plan (2017-2030). 
One Yuan Donation: Encouraging Public Donations to 
Improve Child Nutrition
Throughout the 14-year history of the One Yuan Donation program, we have expanded our original channel of making 
donations at restaurants to multiple interactive channels with our consistent pursuit of innovation. Responding the pandemic 
and changes in consumption patterns, we have made this program more accessible to everyone. To make the donation process 
more engaging and interactive, we have opened  internet fundraising channels such as Donate Together program in Tencent 
Charity and launched Support Monthly and V Gold Donation, which involved millions of members. In 2021, we also launched 
new models of interactive participation like the Charity E-Shop where customers can donate money to buy nutritious meals for 
children in remote rural areas and share their stories on social media. Brands operated by Yum China including KFC, Pizza Hut, 
Taco Bell, and COFFii & JOY launched an exclusive special set meal for One Yuan Donation to build awareness of the program. 
Every time our customer bought a special set meal, the Company donated RMB 1 to support the One Yuan Donation program 
to provide more nutritious meals for children in remote rural areas. Opportunities and Challenges
With China having achieved the ambitious goal of eliminating extreme poverty,  rural revitalization has become a new priority. Companies 
have a vital role to play in helping revitalization of rural development
For China, education development is one of top strategic priorities, and achieving education equity is a critical aspect of this. Companies 
can and should play an important role in speeding up the process
Companies have become one of the most important stakeholders in community governance. Companies can contribute to community 
development by participating in the governance of urban communities, which in turn also helps enterprises strengthen their social 
influence
There is no better way to bond with our customers than by endorsing their traditions and cultural customs. In addition, supporting sports 
events will continue to be an effective way for companies to contribute to stronger national sports development
Our employees volunteer no less than 1.5 million hours per yearGoals and CommitmentsYum China Sustainability Report 2021
We continue to promote the One Yuan Donation program and Grow Local Initiative. By providing nutritious meals and safe and 
energy-saving modern kitchen equipment, we help improve child nutrition in remote rural areas. We also support local industry 
development by developing sustainable agriculture programs, contributing to common prosperity and rural revitalization
We endeavor to empower rural education with digitalization. By setting up digital classrooms for schools in remote rural areas and providing 
remote training sessions on programming, we enable children in rural areas to get access to digital education and thereby contribute to 
promoting education equity
Yum China's store network helps to promote the concept of 'Everyone does good' . We provide support to local communities, whether it 
is paying tribute to frontline workers including sanitation workers, bus drivers, doctors and nurses as well as police officers, or supporting 
pandemic control and disaster relief efforts. These activities all demonstrate the 'warmth' of Yum China
We deliver children's books along with Kid's Meals, leveraging our nationwide restaurant network and digital advantages. This helps to 
construct a parent-child reading platform, encourage daily reading and build a better reading culture in local communities
We continue to build restaurants with cultural themes to integrate into local cultures and promote traditional customs, as well as 
safety-themed restaurants to educate our customers on public safety. We also promote activities to enhance the public's awareness of 
environmental protection and help create environmentally friendly communities
We support various sports events and activities in response to the Healthy China national strategy to convey the need of exercising and the 
spirit of sportsmanship to the public. We also advocate for the health concept of achieving a balance between eating and exercisingKey Actions
New and Clean Modern 
Kitchen Equipment
Charity E-Shop
88Children Enjoying Nutritious Meals 
After Classes
91 90
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
With 14 years of dedication, our One Yuan Donation program has successfully promoted the concept of 'Everyone does good' . We believe 
that making a great impact on society is not just about grand gestures, but also depends on small acts of kindness by ordinary people. 
——Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
All donations have gone towards supporting child nutrition in developing 
regions. Around RMB 3 can buy a nutritious meal for a child in a remote rural 
area, and every RMB 50,000-60,000 can provide a sustainable and fully-equipped 
modern kitchen for a rural school. 
As of the end of 2021
On August 7, 2021, the One Yuan Donation program ran for 
its fourteenth time in Yum China's restaurants. On launch 
day, Tong Wen, who won several world championships and 
was the 78 kg women's judo champion at the 2008 Beijing 
Olympics, introduced the program to customers in KFC and 
Pizza Hut restaurants in Lebin Department Store in Tianjin, 
encouraging citizens to support children in remote rural 
areas.
One Yuan Donation Won an Internet Charity Award
In December 2021, Yum China's short video, A Whisper to You, 
and the corresponding series of One Yuan Donation program 
graphics won the Annual Most Attractive Public Welfare Work 
Award, the most popular and important award in the Tencent 
Creativity For Good Year-end Ceremony. 
The short video named A Whisper to You tells the story of 
children in a primary school in the mountains of Yunnan, 
hidden in the clouds at an altitude of 2,000 meters. These 
children were supported by the One Yuan Donation 
program, receiving nutritious meals and a well-equipped 
modern kitchen. In the video, they express their gratitude 
to all who helped them. After the video and the stories 
were shared on major platforms, they received widespread 
praise for their warm and inspirational style.学生奶
Various Activities of One Yuan Donation across the CountryThe One Yuan Donation 
program had covered
provinces/14
autonomous regionsmillion RMB RMBYum China's employees had 
donated overThe program had raised over
230 million62
The program had involved 
more than
million customers 130We had provided nearly
million nutritious meals 53Modern kitchen equipment 
to more than
schools 1,260
IllustrationCollaborating with Olympic Champions
Tong Wen, the Charity Promoter of One Yuan Donation 
and an Olympic Champion
The Annual Most Attractive Public Welfare Work Award93 92
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Pizza Hut Grow Local Initiative
Grow Local CooperativesGrow Local 
Yum China has been intentionally integrating our business growth with social development, for example, by using our strengths 
to support regional growth by locally procuring high-quality products such as coffee beans and vegetables in Yunnan province 
and the charity sale of potatoes, which benefits local industry and supports rural development.
To promote local products and develop more agriculture opportunities, Pizza Hut launched the Grow Local Initiative in 2018. 
We are committed to developing this into a sustainable agriculture program by capitalizing on our strong supply chain 
management and practices. After years of exploration and engagement in this area, we have developed a new concept of rural 
revitalization focusing on extending the industrial chain, improving the value chain and building the supply chain. 
Grow Local Cooperatives
In 2021, the Grow Local Initiative established Grow Local Cooperatives in our bases located in Shibing and Zhenfeng in Guizhou. 
Through the cooperatives, we have formulated a standardized teaching material compilation and training group with farmers 
in need as the main force. In the meanwhile, we also invited well-known domestic dragon fruit planting experts to be stationed 
there to establish a 24-hour agricultural technical service response mechanism. The establishment of Grow Local Cooperatives 
focuses on solving the problem of lacking skills and management in the development of agricultural industry, and through making 
breakthroughs in agricultural technical services, we have helped local farmers improve the level of land plot management and 
provided technical support for local farmers to increase agricultural production and their income.
Relying on the Grow Local Cooperatives, we have carried out a series of centralized trainings, including instructing the farmers at 
the base to carry out spring planting. In addition to providing technical guidance on the standardization of dragon fruit planting to 
improve working efficiency, we are also passionate about enhancing farmers' enthusiasm for planting. We have also developed an 
agritourism base to create more employment opportunities, promote rural revitalization and contribute to common prosperity.Since the launch of the Grow Local Initiative in 2018, high-quality products such as Yunnan truffles, Guizhou dragon fruits, and 
Shaanxi apples have been brought to the table as delicacies for our customers. We have also delivered training programs for 
local farmers to innovatively improve planting efficiency to increase their profits, which effectively promote sustainable regional 
economic development with a focus on public welfare. 
Training on Dragon Fruit Planting in Shibing Grow Local Cooperatives
Pizza Hut Grow Local Initiative carried out
22 with more than 
1,600In 2021Illustration
offline training sessions participants
In 2021, the Grow Local Initiative has been expanded to Shaanxi Province and started to support the apple industry in Loess Plateau 
in Tongchuan. 95 94
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Equal Access to Education 
Yum China strives to promote equal and high-quality access to education for young people. We aim to create a platform to 
enable fair access and high-quality education for all students through providing financial support and volunteer activities, such 
as providing programming classes to teachers and children in remote rural areas to provide more digital learning opportunities 
for those teenagers.
Digital Classroom
To be prepared for the future, children need a range of 
digital skills, including computer programming. In China, 
many rural primary schools in remote areas not only 
lack teachers with programming teaching experience, 
but also face a severe shortage of modern computers 
and equipment, making it difficult to provide computer 
programing education. To address this gap, Yum China 
started its cooperation with CFPA and Leap Learner in 2019 
to explore a new 'Internet+AI Education Popularization' 
charity model, aimed at increasing digital learning 
opportunities for children in remote rural areas.Based on the successful pilot program, Yum China donated 
RMB 5 million to fund the Digital Classroom Initiative, 
providing children in remote rural areas with access to 
digital learning opportunities. On June 1, 2021, Yum China 
officially launched the Digital Classroom program in Xinhua 
Country, Hunan Province. We aim to support rural teachers' 
programming skills development by combining computer 
donations and programming training so that children can 
have access to programming education and guidance. 
As of the end of 2021, our Digital Classroom program had 
covered 240 schools in 5 provinces and provided programming 
training to more than 330 teachers in rural areas. Through the Digital Classroom program, we hope to bring digital skills to more children in remote rural areas, stimulate 
the spirit of innovation and enable them to have a more innovative and competitive future. 
——Joey Wat, CEO of Yum Chia
We had invested approximately 
We had assisted
in
acrossProvided programming training 
to more thanAs of the end of 2021
million RMB
universities college students
cities120
6820,000
30teachers in rural areas330
KFC First Light Fund
For twenty years since its establishment in 2002, the KFC First Light Fund has 
been providing financial support for college education to talented students 
from underprivileged families. 
The program created an integrated 'Receive Help – Help Yourself – Help Others' 
model, providing scholarships for students, arranging for students to participate 
in KFC restaurant internships, and public welfare activities to help students 
achieve transformation from being assisted to self-help and to helping others, 
as well as promoting their independence and personal growth. As of the end of 
2021, we had invested approximately RMB 120 million in the fund and assisted 
20,000 college students in 68 universities across 30 cities.As of the end of 2021Our Digital Classroom program 
had covered 
provinces5In
schools240
Programming Classes for StudentsThe Digital Classroom 
Launch Ceremony
Visiting the Digital Classroom
肯德基96
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021Community Care
Yum China aims to help build friendly and caring communities. We have launched a series of initiatives to support migrant 
children, their parents and frontline workers, as well as providing delicious meals to support vulnerable communities affected 
by natural disasters. We also actively promote lively and green communities through a range of environmental initiatives.  
Caring for Children
Children have a special place in the hearts of Yum China's management and staff. At the core of our programs, we seek 
to promote healthy and happy childhoods as well as to enhance children's potential. This is especially important for 
underprivileged children in remote areas who are the focus of the funds and programs we have set up.
Targeting left-behind and migrant children, KFC set up the KFC 
Little Migratory Birds Fund together with China Children and 
Teenagers' Fund (CCTF) in 2016. The fund supports a series of 
reading, sports and arts activities all over the country to support 
and promote the physical and mental growth of these children. 
To complement the program, KFC also set up 'Mom Restaurants 
for Little Migratory Birds' to provide employment opportunities 
for working parents of left-behind children so that they can work 
near their hometown and spend more time with their children. 
As of the end of 2021, the KFC Little Migratory Birds Fund had 
donated over RMB 24 million, benefiting 4 million left-behind and 
migrant children. The fund had also established 2,000 book corners, 
donated 700,000 high-quality books, and held more than 30,000 
reading sessions for children, covering schools and communities 
in 29 provinces. We had organized over 800 story-telling sessions 
and other theme activities and contributed over 40,000 hours of KFC Little Migratory Birds Fund
The KFC Little Migratory Birds 
Fund had donated over
book corners
reading sessionsmillion RMB24
Benefiting
left-behind and migrant childrenmillion4The fund had also established
2,000
We had 
organized over
story-telling sessions800We had contributed 
volunteer time over
hours40,000Donated
high-quality books 700,000
And held more than
30,000Covering schools and 
communities in
provinces
The 'Mom Restaurants for Little Migratory 
Birds' model had also covered more than
760
KFC restaurants29As of the end of 2021
Giving back to the community is central to our culture. With our stores all over the country and deep connection with our 
customers, we are committed to offering a variety of programs that inspire our employees and customers to help people 
in need and support the community as a whole in every possible way.
——Alice Wang, Chief Public Affairs Officer of Yum China
volunteer time to provide companionship and care. The 'Mom 
Restaurants for Little Migratory Birds' model had also covered more 
than 760 KFC restaurants in various provinces for long-term migrant 
parents, bringing family companionship to more left-behind and 
migrant children. 
97
YUMC FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX99 98
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
IllustrationThe 5th Anniversary of the KFC Little Migratory Birds Fund
With the 5th anniversary of the KFC Little Migratory Birds Fund, KFC restaurants across the country organized activities 
year-round to inspire these children to grow up confidently.
Summer Camp Activities
Children's Day Activities
Winter Camp Activities with 
a 'Meeting in Winter, Seeking 
Dreams for the Future' Theme1
3 3
3
1
2
31
2Caring for City Guardians 
Yum China has extended its community care to all the frontline workers, including ordinary workers who have frontline roles. 
For example, we have launched the Dream Come True Early campaign, providing breakfast for frontline workers. In addition, 
brands operated by Yum China also consistently care for those frontline volunteers who contribute to pandemic prevention and 
control by providing nutritious and tasty meals.
KFC and Pizza Hut have launched a series of activities to show our gratitude to early-morning and other frontline workers, 
including sanitation workers, bus drivers, nurses and police officers for their dedicated work. During cold winter days, hot 
summer days and special holidays, the brands deliver hot meals to frontline workers who work tirelessly, expressing our 
appreciation and calling on the public to pay tribute to the 'unknown workers' by regular supporting charitable activities.Caring for Frontline Workers
IllustrationKFC - Using an Unmanned Dining Car to Deliver Care
In addition to providing a heartwarming breakfast for early-morning workers in Guangzhou, KFC also combined emerging 
technologies with public welfare activities to express our sincere appreciation to frontline workers.
Unmanned Dining Car
101 100
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
The Company continues to proudly contribute to pandemic 
prevention and control. We have taken on social responsibility 
without hesitation and strengthened our actions to work hand 
in hand with local communities where we operate in to support 
each other. In 2021, KFC and Pizza Hut brands delivered 
more than 70,000 meals to pandemic-fighting frontline 
workers. While cheering for the pandemic-fighting frontline 
medical workers, we also hope to express our gratitude and 
appreciation to support local communities to overcome the 
difficulties together. Caring for Pandemic Prevention Volunteers
Yum China and its brands actively offered their help to disaster-stricken areas in Zhengzhou. Caring for Disaster Victims
When natural disasters strike, Yum China actively helps the disaster-affected areas with its own resources, giving back to the community 
and striving to bring comfort to disaster victims and frontline rescue staff.
In July 2021, Henan province was hit by a rare bout of extremely heavy rainfall. The Company, together with its KFC, Pizza Hut, and Little 
Sheep brands, delivered more than 47,000 meals to disaster-stricken areas. Restaurants in those areas also extended their working hours 
to provide resting space and food. In October, there were heavy rainfalls in Shanxi province. KFC and Pizza Hut brands immediately 
offered their help and delivered meals to frontline flood-relief workers and evacuated residents to contribute to resolving food supply 
issues. Many employees selflessly participated in volunteer work to actively provide service to the local communities. 
Yum China Delivering 
Hot Meals to 
Pandemic-fighting 
Frontline Workers
103 102
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Caring for the Environment
The Company recognizes the importance of protecting our environment. By launching themed activities, we hope to enhance 
the community's awareness of caring for the environment, joining hands to build a sustainable and environmentally friendly 
community.
IllustrationEco-environmental Initiative for National Parks
On April 22, 2021, KFC China and the China Green Foundation jointly launched a non-profit environmental initiative to 
help protect the ecological environment at Xishuangbanna National Nature Reserve and Kekexili National Reserve of 
Qinghai in the Three-River-Source National Park.
As part of its commitment to environmental protection, KFC also organized a series of public online and offline educational 
events to raise awareness of environmental issues and sustainability. KFC China will remain committed to its 'Be Natural, Be 
You' sustainability philosophy as it contributes to environmental protection and helps to shape a future where more people 
embrace nature. Culture and Sports
As the largest restaurant company in China, Yum China has launched various programs, set up theme restaurants and supported 
relevant sports events to promote a strong cultural atmosphere and advocate a healthy and balanced lifestyle.
Building Community Reading Culture
Yum China has consistently encouraged daily reading to the public through multiple channels, building online reading 
platforms and offline reading spaces. We hope to make full use of our nationwide restaurants and our unique digital advantage 
to build a greater reading culture in the community. 
As one of the most popular restaurants for children, KFC has 
launched the Distribute Selected Children's Books along 
with Kids' Meals activity since 2015, striving to open a new 
reading window for parent-child family customers. In 2017, 
KFC officially launched the 'Book Kingdom' campaign to pair 
books with Kids' Meals, encouraging children to read good 
books and broaden their horizons while eating great food. 
Leveraging its nation-wide restaurant network, KFC regularly 
organizes free in-restaurant storytelling sessions. We have 
also recorded high-quality audiobooks and launched them 
on KFC's mobile app and official WeChat and Weibo accounts 
to promote parent-child reading. 
As of the end of 2021, over 100 million books had been 
distributed through this initiative, with over 760,000 
storytelling sessions held.KFC 'Book Kingdom'
Through this initiative, KFC had 
distributed over
With overAs of the end of 2021
100
760,000million books
storytelling sessions
Offline Educational Event
105 104
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
In 2018, Pizza Hut launched its Public Reading Program 
nationwide. Pizza Hut has continued to promote reading in 
line with the National Reading Campaign advocated by the 
Chinese government, providing public reading platforms in 
collaboration with local governments and media resources, 
enabling customers to socialize and read while enjoying 
their meals. 
In 2021, Pizza Hut introduced the 'Parent-Child Reading 
Salon' in reading-themed restaurants to promote parent-
child reading and strengthen family bonds by providing a 
platform for communication between parents and children. 
We also established a special 'Female Reading Salon' for female 
customers, inviting them to enrich their minds with books 
while enjoying afternoon tea. Since its inception four years ago, 
the program has expanded to around 70 Pizza Hut restaurants 
in 19 cities. There are more than 55,000 books stored in Pizza 
Hut restaurants. Pizza Hut Public Reading Program
IllustrationReading-themed Restaurant – Promoting Reading NationwideAs of the end of 2021
Pizza Hut restaurants had stored 
more than
55,000 booksThe program has expanded to around
70 19 Pizza Hut restaurants cities with
Customers Enjoying the Audio Library through QR Code 
in Reading-themed Restaurants in ChengduParent-child Reading in Qingdao
The Reading-themed Restaurant in Shenyang The Featured Book Bar in TianjinIn 2021, Pizza Hut public reading-themed restaurants across the country held events to help foster a reading culture in 
the community, extending the city's cultural space and demonstrating the brand's innovative and caring spirit.
Celebrating Chinese New Y ear by Launching Palace Lantern-themed Activities
Chinese New Year Activities in Guangzhou
Palace Lanterns and the Chinese New Year Bucket promoted by KFCAs one of the treasures of Chinese traditional culture for 
thousands of years, traditional festivals embody the emotions 
of the Chinese people, as well as carrying expectations for a 
happy life. In the Chinese New Year of 2021, KFC collaborated 
with palace lanterns of the Palace Museum again to launch 
special themed activities with traditional cultural elements in 
various cities, celebrating traditional festivals with customers, 
and letting more people get experienced with Chinese 
traditional culture in a subtle way. In Guangzhou, KFC also 
invited representatives of the intangible cultural heritage 
of Cantonese-style redwood palace lanterns to explain the 
origin story and cultural customs of palace lanterns, bringing 
a traditional culture lesson to the invited families of 'little 
migratory birds' . Promoting Chinese Traditional Culture
Yum China has always been committed to promoting traditional Chinese culture through our restaurant network and unique 
products.
As a leading restaurant brand in China, KFC has been integrated 
into local cultures, and consumers' daily lives. KFC has continuously 
made great efforts to facilitate the inheritance of traditional culture. 
In recent years, KFC has cooperated with the Palace Museum and 
the National Museum of China through cross-border cultural 
Intellectual Property (IP) and other forms to promote traditional 
cultural elements such as our national artifacts, treasures and 
intangible cultural heritage, enabling our long-lasting cultural 
accumulation to show its charm. We hope to showcase the KFC: Facilitating the Inheritance of Traditional Culture
historical and cultural heritage of China with the combination 
of fun and fashion. Building on the successful campaign of the 
'National Treasure Shining in China' with the National Museum of 
China over the past two years, KFC continued to cooperate with 
the Palace Museum in 2020. KFC has launched a series of activities 
and created diverse consumption scenarios including traditional 
culture for customers, not only enriching customer experience, but 
also injecting new energy into our Chinese traditional culture. 
Illustration
107 106
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Integrating Local Culture
KFC has launched restaurants in various different cities with local cultural themes, including special local menus, 
helping to build local cultural pride. 
Pizza Hut launched the 'Little Heirs' family public welfare project to continue our support for families. We invited representatives 
of the younger generation of cultural heritage heirs to perform and invited children and their families who were interested 
in these cultures. We aim to help these 'Little Heirs' to learn the stories behind intangible cultural heritage, enhancing their 
understanding and love of Chinese traditional culture. Pizza Hut: Inheriting Cultural Heritage
Cultural Heritage-themed Restaurants
 During the 2021 Chinese New Year holiday, Pizza Hut constructed several theme restaurants, bringing together 
11 major cultural heritage themes. We held activities in various cities to enhance customers' awareness and 
understanding of local folk culture.
Lion Dance Activities in Guangdong
Paper Cutting Activities in the Cultural Heritage-themed Restaurant in ShenyangIllustration
Illustration
Canal-themed Restaurant 
in Suzhou
Chu culture-themed Restaurant in 
Hubei
Culture-themed Restaurant in 
Shandong11
222
3 331
109 108
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Activities to Support Sports and Promote an Active Lifestyle
Yum China recognizes the power and potential to use sports to make a positive impact on society. Sports have the power to 
inspire. They have created countless moments of excitement that live on in people's hearts. We continue to promote sports 
and support athletes as they push their limits. More importantly, Yum China has always supported sports, teams and athletes, 
including local events such as the 3x3 Basketball Championship, city marathons, as well as large international events like the 
Winter Olympic Games and the Asia Games. 
As an official sponsor of the 24th Beijing Winter Olympics and Paralympics in 2022, in addition to serving championship meals 
to athletes from all over the world in the Olympic Village, Yum China also launched a Winter Olympics-themed campaign in 
restaurants in cities including Beijing, Tianjin and Zhangjiakou. We also organized mass winter sports events to raise the profile 
of the Winter Olympics, inspire the community's love for winter sports, and contribute to the promotion of Olympic sports. Supporting Winter Sports with the Spirit of the Winter Olympics
KFC in Tianjin held the Winter Carnival, inviting customers to have fun together
Promoting Public Safety Education in Restaurants
In 2021, Yum China continued its activities in theme restaurants, conducting education on various safety topics, including cyber 
security and fire rescue. By combining theme education and restaurant activities, we strive to promote safety awareness and 
positive energy in daily life.
In cooperation with local governments, we set up several cyber security-themed restaurants in 2021, holding public activities 
to improve customers' internet privacy protection awareness. As of the end of 2021, we had launched cyber security-themed 
restaurants in several regions, including Shanghai, Guangdong, Jiangsu, Hunan and Heilongjiang. 
We continue to support emergency response education activities to enhance public awareness and improve general fire safety. As of 
the end of 2021, we had constructed over 30 fire rescue-themed restaurants in 12 cities across the country and held more than 450 
educational activities. 
Education Activities in Inner Mongolia
Fire security-themed Restaurant in GuizhouInWe had constructed over
Held more than1230
450citiesfire rescue-themed restaurants
educational activitiesAs of the end of 2021
About this Report
Reporting Scope
Reference
Report Access and Feedback
NoteThis report is our 5th annual Sustainability Report 
(the 'Report') covering the period from January 
1, 2021 to December 31, 2021, though some 
facts and figures may fall outside of the period if 
necessary.
The Report is prepared in accordance with the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability 
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) issued by the 
Global Sustainability Standard Board (GSSB). It 
Yum China Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries and branches.
'Yum China Holdings, Inc.' in the Report is also referred to as 'Yum China' , 'YUMC' , 'We' and 'the Company' .
'China' in this Report refers to the People's Republic of China, excluding Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan.
The Report is available in Chinese and English, in print and electronic formats. If you have any suggestions, 
please contact us at:
Data and figures are shown in RMB unless otherwise stated. 
In this report, the description of 'The largest restaurant company in China' is based on the 2021 system 
sales.
This report includes 'forward-looking statements' within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 
of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We intend all 
forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995. You should consult our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including 
the information set forth under the captions 'Risk Factors' and 'Management's Discussion and Analysis 
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations' in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Quarterly 
Reports on Form 10-Q) for additional detail about factors that could affect our financial and other results. E-mail: CSR@yumchina.com
Address: 6F-16F, Yum China Building, 20 Tian Yao Qiao Road, Shanghai 200030, Chinaalso refers to the rating requirements of the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), ESG Rating 
requirements of MSCI and Sustainalytics, GB/T 
36000-2015 Guidance on Social Responsibility, the 
UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
relevant regulatory requirements and other 
relevant international and Chinese standards 
and guidelines for sustainable development.YUMC FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
111 110113 112
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Indicators Unit 2021 2020 2019
FOOD 
Food Safety and Quality Audits on Suppliers times 400+ 600+ 590+
Key Raw Materials Sampling Tests in Restaurants pieces 300+ 300+ 680+
Restaurant Food Safety and Quality Audits 
(i.e. Operational Excellence Compliance Audit)times 19,400+ 16,200+ 17,000+
Product Checks on Key Menu Items in Restaurants times ~4,500 3,690+ 3,400+
Microbiological Testing in Restaurants pieces 111,000+ 71,000+ 83,000+
ENVIRONMENT
Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions tCO2e 158,887 135,615 114,720
Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions tCO2e 2,158,856 1,873,757 1,956,072
Average Restaurant Energy Indirect GHG Emissions tCO2e 205 207 233
Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions tCO2e 8,446,963 7,079,379 /
Total Electricity Consumption MWh 3,165,227 2,760,611 2,870,997
Average Restaurant Electricity Consumption MWh 303 304 342
Total Water Consumption tons 27,280,872 24,579,253 27,602,012
Average Restaurant Water Consumption tons 2,628 2,710 3,284
Total Amount of Packaging Usage*
 (Plastic Packaging & Paper Packaging)tons 111,360 / /
Total Amount of Plastic Packaging Usage tons 22,027 / /
Total Amount of Paper Packaging Usage tons 89,333 / /
Packaging Usage per Sales (in million yuan) tons 2.0 / /
Total Packaging Savings (Plastic Packaging & Paper Packaging) tons ~18,900 9,200+ 9,000+
Percentage of RSPO-Certified Palm Oil % 100 100 100
PEOPLE
Total Number of Employees person 450,000+ 400,000+ /
Number of Full-time Employees % 33 34 /
Number of Part-time Employees % 67 66 /
Number of Male Employees % 35 36 /
Number of Female Employees % 65 64 /
Number of Employees at 30 and below % 58 60 /
Number of Employees 31~40 % 23 23 /
Number of Employees 41~50 % 16 15 /
Number of Employees over 50 % 3 2 /
Employee Turnover Rate of Restaurant General Managers (RGMs) % 10.6 9.2 /Appendix
Key Performance Indicators
Share of Women in All Management Positions % 61 60 /
Share of Women in Junior Management Positions % 61 61 /
Share of Women in Top Management Positions % 53 54 /
Share of Women in Management Positions in 
Revenue-Generating Functions% 62 61 /
Share of Women in STEM-related Positions % 22 15 /
Share of Female Employees in New Hire Employees % 66 59 /
Share of Female Employees in Promotion Employees % 68 62 /
Share of Female Employees in Turnover Employees % 57 56 /
Mean Hourly Gender Pay Gap of Restaurant Service Team % 0 0 0
Median Hourly Gender Pay Gap of Restaurant Service Team % 0 0 0
Number of Cities with Angel Restaurants / 22 23 /
Number of Angel Restaurants / 23 24 /
Number of People with Disabilities Employed in Angel Restaurants person ~200 200+ /
Number of People with Disabilities Gained Employment Support person ~2,000 2,100+ /
Total Amount Spent on Training and Development RMB 456,000,000 266,000,000 /
Average Amount Spent per FTE on Training and Development RMB 3,000 1,308 /
Training and Development Hours in Total hours 12,000,000 8,600,000 /
Average Hours per FTE of Training and Development hours 54 42 /
Number of Full-time Employees Trained person 147,000 136,000 /
Number of Part-time Employees Trained person 303,000 270,000 /
Share of Male Employees in Training Programs % 35 36 /
Share of Female Employees in Training Programs % 65 64 /
Promotion Rate across the Restaurant Management Team % 42 36 /
Promotion Rate among Office Employees % 14 8 /
Annual Physical Examination Coverage of Restaurant Management 
Team and Office Employees% 100 100 /
Health Certificate Coverage of Restaurant Employees % 100 100 /
Lost-time Injury Frequency Rate for Employeesn/million hours 
worked0.99 1.34 1.08
Total Number of Work-related Fatalities for Employees person 0 0 0
Percentage of CSR Audited Critical Suppliers % 100 100 100
Percentage of Suppliers in China % 99.1 99.1 98.7
COMMUNITY
Employee Volunteer Time hours 1,800,000+ 1,500,000+ 1,500,000+PEOPLEIndicators Unit 2021 2020 2019
*Total amount of packaging usage covered the usage from restaurants across all brands.115 114
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
SDG 4
Quality Education
Ensure inclusive and 
equitable quality 
education and promote 
lifelong learning 
opportunities for allYum China strives to promote equal and high-quality access to education for young people. We 
aim to create a platform to enable fair access and high-quality education for all students through 
providing financial support and volunteer activities, such as providing programming classes to 
teachers and children in remote rural areas to provide more digital learning opportunities for 
those teenagers. As of the end of 2021, our Digital Classroom program had covered 240 schools 
in 5 provinces and provided programming training to more than 330 teachers in rural areas. For 
twenty years since its establishment in 2002, the KFC First Light Fund has been providing financial 
support for college education to talented students from underprivileged families. As of the end 
of 2021, we had invested approximately RMB 120 million in the fund and assisted 20,000 college 
students in 68 universities across 30 cities.
Yum China encourages employees to further their education and upgrade their professional skills. 
In cooperation with the Open University of China, the YUMC College program offers sponsorship 
to employees for their further education, especially in pursuing a qualified college degree. By the 
end of 2021, the program had been rolled out to 20 cities and 3,800 employees were granted 
subsidies and achieved higher education degrees. Scholarships are also available for eligible 
employees for their postgraduate study. In December 2021, KFC officially launched the YUMC 
'Angel College' Program in Guangzhou and Shenzhen. Supported by the cooperative efforts of 
institutions that assist people with disabilities, KFC devised innovative models for angel employees 
(employees with disabilities) to receive continuing education and improve their vocational skills 
through the Open University of China. They will start their campus life in the fall of 2022 in their 
pursuit of a college degree. KFC also provides internship and employment opportunities to 
students with disabilities studying in vocational colleges so that they can develop work-place 
skills. 
SDG 5
Gender Equality
Achieve gender equality 
and empower all women 
and girlsYum China is one of the signatories of the United Nations Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs), 
committing to ensuring gender equality in all human resources practices such as recruitment, training, 
and promotion. By the end of 2021, Yum China employed over 290,000 women, representing 65% of its 
total workforce. In addition, we continue to make progress in nurturing talented female leaders across 
all management levels. By the end of 2021, women holding director and above positions represented 
53% of our senior management workforce.
We provide regulatory benefits and care during pregnancy and nursing period for female employees. 
We have updated our maternity leave policy in accordance with national law, providing female 
employees with a minimum of 98 consecutive days of maternity leave, and extended leave in case 
of special circumstances such as dystocia and multiple births. Male employees are also entitled to 
paternity leave during the pregnancy and nursing period of their spouses. We also set up dedicated 
mother's rooms in our workplace to offer privacy and comfort. To ensure that female employees will 
realize their career potential and aspiration, we offer a series of female leadership training programs in 
order to improve their confidence and competitiveness in the workplace. 
KFC launched the first 'Mom Restaurants for Migratory Children' in Chongqing in March 2017. The 
program had been expanded to over 760 KFC restaurants in five provinces by the end of 2021. The job 
offers comprehensive benefit schemes and, most importantly, flexible working schedules that enable 
the working mothers to strike a balance between work and family obligations. The program won the 
WEPs Community and Industry Participation award in 2020.
In January 2022, Yum China was named in the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index (GEI) for the fourth 
consecutive year and was one of only three companies from mainland China included in the latest GEI, 
with a score of 78.2 which is higher than the average value of the overall GEI. In March 2022, Equileap 
released its 2022 Gender Equality Global Report and Ranking. Yum China was included as one of the Top 
100 global companies and the only one from mainland China.  SDG 2
Zero Hunger
End hunger, achieve food 
security and improved 
nutrition and promote 
sustainable agricultureIn response to the common prosperity agenda of the Chinese government, Yum China is 
committed to proactively promoting sustainable rural development. Through programs 
like the One Yuan Donation program and the Pizza Hut Grow Local Initiative, we continue 
our efforts on improving child nutrition in remote rural areas and strive to help develop 
local industries to contribute to rural revitalization. As of the end of 2021, the One Yuan 
Donation program had covered 14 provinces/autonomous regions. The program had 
raised over RMB 230 million and Yum China's employees had donated over RMB 62 million. 
The program had involved more than 130 million customers. We had provided nearly 53 
million nutritious meals for children, and modern kitchen equipment to more than 1,260 
schools. In 2021, Pizza Hut Grow Local Initiative carried out 22 offline training sessions with 
more than 1,600 participants.
We have launched the Food Bank program since 2020 to support China's national 
campaign against food waste and to contribute to the United Nations' Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDGs) for zero hunger and responsible consumption and 
production. The program involves establishing food pick-up stations at chosen restaurants 
to provide surplus food for free to residents in need. We ensure that unsold food is 
properly collected, packed, kept and frozen. Information such as the date of deposit and 
the consumption guidelines are clearly marked on each bag. By the end of 2021, KFC 
expanded its Food Bank program to cover over 120 KFC restaurants in 27 cities.
SDG 3
Good Health and 
Well-being
Ensure healthy lives and 
promote well-being for all 
at all agesWe are committed to offering delicious and nutritious food choices to our customers 
as well as promoting a balanced and healthy diet. We keep updating our menus to 
provide a great variety of delicious and nutritious food. We continually innovate in recipe 
optimization, abundant ingredients and multiple cooking methods while maintaining 
the quality and taste our customers expect. In terms of child nutrition, we pay particular 
attention to enhancing the nutritional value of our kids meals.
Yum China has launched various programs, set up theme restaurants and supported 
relevant sports events to promote a strong cultural atmosphere and advocate a healthy 
and balanced lifestyle. We continue to promote sports and support athletes as they push 
their limits. More importantly, Yum China has always supported sports, teams and athletes, 
including local events such as the 3x3 Basketball Championship, city marathons, as well 
as large international events like the Winter Olympic Games and the Asia Games. As an 
official sponsor of the 24th Beijing Winter Olympics and Paralympics in 2022, in addition 
to serving championship meals to athletes from all over the world in the Olympic Village, 
Yum China also launched a Winter Olympics-themed campaign in restaurants in cities 
including Beijing, Tianjin and Zhangjiakou. We also organized mass winter sports events 
to raise the profile of the Winter Olympics, inspire the community's love for winter sports, 
and contribute to the promotion of Olympic sports.Contribution to United Nation Sustainable Development Goals
UN SDGs UN SDGs Our Impact Our Impact117 116
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
SDG 9
Industry, Innovation and 
Infrastructure
Build resilient infrastructure, 
promote inclusive and 
sustainable industrialization 
and foster innovationYum China operates a tailor-made, world-class logistics management system to secure food safety and 
provide efficient and reliable logistics services for our restaurants. By the end of 2021, we utilized 32 
logistics centers to distribute supplies to company-owned and franchised stores, as well as to third-party 
customers. Our supply chain strategy of working with multiple suppliers, as well as building a vast logistics 
network, allows for continuous supply of products in the event that supply from an individual supplier or 
logistics center becomes unfeasible.
Each of our logistics centers has a full-time quality assurance specialist responsible for inspecting storage 
facilities and the receipt, distribution, and unloading of goods. We also conduct regular audits and routine 
inspections of our logistics service providers (including warehouse and transportation) to verify that their 
food safety and quality management systems meet our requirements. In 2021, we conducted about 191 
food safety and quality audits and over 2,300 routine inspections for warehouse and transportation service 
providers.
Our vision is to become the world's most innovative pioneer in the restaurant industry. In addition to 
our holistic food safety management system, we have upgraded food safety management through 
innovative technology, and built an industry-leading intelligent and digitalized supply chain management 
system. The cutting-edge technologies, enabled us to combine tradition control measures with real-time 
data collection and analysis, key process visibility and deviation rectification to improve efficiencies and 
timeliness of Yum China's food safety management.
SDG 12
Responsible 
Consumption and 
Production
Ensure sustainable 
consumption and 
production patternsIn recent years, with the enhancement of environmental consciousness of the public, a low-carbon 
lifestyle has been favored by an increasing number of customers. In addition to reducing GHG emissions 
in our own operations and mobilizing suppliers in this regard, customers are also one of the most 
important stakeholders in Yum China's efforts to address climate change challenges. Leveraging our 
strong online and offline connections with customers, we strive to increase environmental awareness 
among the public through a series of green marketing campaigns, encouraging and rewarding more 
eco-friendly choices, in order to turn sustainability challenges into opportunities. In December 2021, 
KFC introduced an interactive section on its Super App to increase public awareness on topics such 
as 'Exploring Carbon Reduction' and 'The Journey to Carbon Neutrality' , aiming to promote carbon 
reduction actions. KFC has introduced a green rewards program with special coupons that encourages 
and incentivizes behaviors such as mobile ordering and in-store pickup, opting out of using disposable 
cutlery, reducing food waste, and waste sorting. The program covered over 7,900 stores nationwide 
and strived to inspire 320 million KFC members to participate in and contribute to the sustainable 
development of society and the environment.
SDG 13
Climate Action
Take urgent action to 
combat climate change and 
its impactsTogether with our employees, customers, supply chain partners, and communities, we strive to take active 
climate action to transit to a low-carbon economy. We are fully committed to driving GHG emissions 
reduction across our value chain, and at the same time proactively review our business resilience against the 
climate risks and opportunities with reference to the TCFD, both in the near and long term.
As Yum China builds long-term climate change resilience capacity and drives transition towards a low-carbon 
economy, we recognize the need to consider the potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities 
in our strategy to ensure business continuity and sustainability. Therefore, we commit to fully adopting 
the TCFD recommendations. We identified and assessed climate-related risks and opportunities that have 
significant impact on our business in different scenarios and outlined the approach to addressing them. 
As the largest restaurant company in China, we see the needs to be part of the global climate action 
to meet the long-term targets of the Paris Agreement, to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C above 
pre-industrial levels, and China's commitment to peak carbon emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon 
neutrality by 2060. We officially announced the signing and submission of the Business Ambition for 1.5 °C 
Commitment Letter to SBTi on June 8, 2021, demonstrating our commitment to science-based targets to 
reduce GHG emissions and the ambition to reach net-zero value chain emissions by 2050.
SDG 15
Life on Land
Protect, restore and promote 
sustainable use of terrestrial 
ecosystems, sustainably 
manage forests, combat 
desertification, and halt and 
reverse land degradation 
and halt biodiversity lossForests help to regulate ecosystems and play an integral role in the carbon and water cycles. To do our 
part in protecting the lungs of our earth, we have set an ambitious goal of achieving a zero-deforestation 
supply chain in collaboration with our suppliers. We comply with national laws, support global forest 
protection initiatives, and explore opportunities to eliminate potential deforestation risks across our supply 
chain.
We are exploring opportunities to enhance upstream traceability, identify major agricultural commodities 
from high-risk regions, and collaborate with supply chain partners to create a sustainable ecosystem. 
By continuously strengthening traceability management in our upstream supply chain, we support 
sustainable sourcing of commodities, including palm oil, soy, cattle, and timber.
UN SDGs Our Impact
SDG 7
Affordable and Clean 
Energy
Ensure access to affordable, 
reliable, sustainable and 
modern energy for allWe have piloted the use of electric vehicle (EV) fleets in Shenzhen, as part of our continued 
exploration into new energy vehicles to support our extensive distribution system.
Yum China believes that the transition to renewable energy will improve our resilience in addressing 
the challenges of climate change, and it also plays a vital role in fulfilling the commitment of 
reaching net-zero value chain GHG emissions by 2050.
Renewable energy investment is a new space for us at Yum China, in fact, can be a kind of industry 
challenge. We have taken an important step to pilot Distributed Photovoltaics (DPV) installation 
in the first batch of KFC Green Pioneer Stores in Beijing and Hangzhou in early 2022. The installed 
rooftop solar panels generate about 10,000 kilowatt-hours of clean electricity a year for the 
restaurant, and we plan to further improve the restaurant's energy efficiency by incorporating 
energy storage technology. Compared with the average carbon emissions per KFC restaurant in 
2020, the Green Pioneer Stores can reduce GHG emissions by around 15%.
In the future, based on the technological advancement and pilot experience, we will continue to 
assess the feasibility of renewable energy utilization in operating sites such as deploying rooftop 
solar panels for restaurants, logistics centers and office buildings, as appropriate. In addition, we 
continue to explore more renewable energy opportunities in the case of specific application for Yum 
China. In collaboration with various stakeholders, we are actively building know-how and seeking 
for every opportunity to leverage the green power trading system that China government stated to 
pilot since September 2021.
In 2018, Yum China launched a small-scale pilot project in Chengdu to convert UCO into biodiesel 
and established a comprehensive data recording and tracking system in accordance with 
International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) criteria. In 2021, we continued to expand 
the pilot project to cover more restaurants. By the end of 2021, 325 restaurants were certified by 
ISCC, including KFC, Pizza Hut, and Taco Bell restaurants, expanding from the Chengdu market 
to the whole Sichuan province. From 2019 to 2021, 2,545 tons of UCO have been converted into 
biodiesel.
SDG 8
Decent Work and 
Economic Growth
Promote sustained, inclusive 
and sustainable economic 
growth, full and productive 
employment and decent 
work for allAdhering to the 'People First' value, we firmly believe that human rights serves as a foundation of 
a sustainable business. Yum China has released the Human Rights Policy reiterating our firm 
commitment to respect and protect human rights in the workplace and also in the community.  
We comply with relevant laws, regulations and standards. We endorse the United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and relevant international human rights conventions, including but 
not limited to the International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work. We strive to create a workplace and a community that respect and protect human 
rights. We proactively identify, prevent and mitigate human rights risks in the Company and 
throughout the value chain. We also take an active role in understanding stakeholders' concerns 
and expectations on human rights issues.
We are committed to creating a diverse, inclusive and non-discriminatory working environment for 
employees. We provide a platform for all employees to realize their full potential through a series of 
programs such as restaurants for working mothers in rural regions, Winter Olympics Restaurant, and 
college education scholarship. We offer over 1.5% of our full-time jobs to people with disabilities. 
As of the end of 2021, we had employed around 2,000 staff with disabilities. To provide gainful 
employment opportunities for youths with disabilities nationwide, Yum China launched the first 
'Angel Restaurant' in Shenzhen in 2012. With modified equipment and operational processes, and 
customized training, our 'angel employees' – those with special needs – can perform the full range 
of job roles. Not only can they learn new skills, they are also able to integrate themselves into 
society and ultimately achieve self-actualization. By the end of 2021, we have opened 23 'Angel 
Restaurants' in 22 cities, providing jobs for around 200 people with special needs. Eight 'Angel 
Employees' were selected to serve in restaurants in the Winter Olympic Villages. 
We released the Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) Management System to ensure our 
employees, customers and partners fully understand and comply with the relevant regulations, 
policies and procedures. From 2018 to 2021, the total number of work-related fatalities for 
employees of Yum China continued to be 0, and the Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) per 
million hours worked in 2021 was 0.99n/million hours worked.  
UN SDGs Our Impact
119 118
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
GRI Index
GRI Standards Disclosure Title Chapter Notes Page GRI Standards Disclosure Title Chapter Notes Page
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization About Us P06
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About Us P06
102-3 Location of headquarters /Headquartered in 
Shanghai, China
102-4 Location of operations About Us P06
102-5 Ownership and legal form About Us P06
102-6 Markets served About Us P06
102-7 Scale of the organization About Us P06
102-8 Information on employees and other workers About Us P06
102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain Social Impact P84
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain / No significant changes
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Corporate Governance P08
102-12 External initiativesContribution to United Nation 
Sustainable Development Goals P114
102-13 Membership of associationsIndustry Communication and 
Public EducationP31
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Remarks by Yum China CEO P02
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Sustainability Strategy P10
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Corporate Governance P08
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Corporate Governance P08
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance P08
102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance P08
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social topicsSustainability Strategy P10
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental 
and social topicsSustainability Strategy P10
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its 
committeesCorporate Governance P08
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance P08
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance P08
102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance P08
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, 
values, and strategySustainability Strategy P10
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Corporate Governance P08
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance Corporate Governance P08
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and 
social impactsSustainability Strategy P10
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Sustainability Strategy P10
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Sustainability Strategy P10
102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting Sustainability Strategy P10
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Sustainability Strategy P10
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Sustainability Strategy P10
102-35 Remuneration policiesCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
102-36 Process for determining remunerationCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability Strategy P10
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Sustainability Strategy P10
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainability Strategy P10
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Sustainability Strategy P10
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements About this Report P110
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Sustainability Strategy P10
102-47 List of material topics Sustainability Strategy P10
102-48 Restatements of information /No material
restatements 
of information 
to reports
102-49 Changes in reporting About this Report P110
102-50 Reporting Period About this Report P110
102-51 Date of most recent report About this Report P110
102-52 Reporting cycle About this Report P110
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this Report P110
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this Report P110
102-55 GRI content index GRI Index P118
102-56 External assurance Assurance Report P122
Management Approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability Strategy P10
103-2 The management approach and its componentsFood
Environment
People 
CommunityP14
P34
P56
P86
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability Strategy P10
GRI 201  Economic Performance
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 
due to climate changeClimate Action P38
GRI 204  Procurement Practices
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supply Chain Social Impact P84
GRI 205  Anti-corruption
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresCorporate Governance P08
GRI 206  Anti-competitive Behavior
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 
monopoly practices/No legal actions 
recorded
GRI 301  Materials
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Circular Economy P48
301-2 Recycled input materials used Circular Economy P48
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Circular Economy P48121 120
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
GRI :302  Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Climate Action P38
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Climate Action P38
302-3 Energy intensity Climate Action P38
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate Action P38
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Climate Action P38
GRI 303  Water
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Climate Action P38
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Climate Action P38
303-5 Water consumption Climate Action P38
GRI 305  Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate Action P38
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Climate Action P38
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate Action P38
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Climate Action P38
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate Action P38
GRI 306  Effluents and Waste
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Circular Economy P48
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Circular Economy P48
306-3 Waste generated Circular Economy P48
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Circular Economy P48
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Circular Economy P48
GRI 307  Environmental Compliance
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations /No major violations
of environmental
laws and regulations
GRI 308  Supplier Environmental Assessment
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and 
action takenClimate Action P38
GRI 401  Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnoverCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employeesCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
401-3 Parental leaveCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
GRI 403  Occupational Health and Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management systemCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigationCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
403-3 Occupational health servicesCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 
occupational health and safetyCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safetyCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
403-6 Promotion of worker healthCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and 
safety impacts directly linked by business relationshipsCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 
management systemCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces 'People First'P59
403-9 Work-related injuriesCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
403-10 Work-related ill healthCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
GRI 404  Training and Education
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employeeCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programsCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 
and career development reviewsCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
GRI 405  Diversity and Equal Opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employeesCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to menCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
GRI 406  Non-discrimination
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions takenCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
GRI 412  Human Rights Assessment
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or proceduresCreate a Sustainable Workplace 
that Reinforces  'People First'P59
GRI 413  Local Communities
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments, and development programsCommunity Care P96
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative 
Impacts on local communities/No evidence  of 
potential  impacts on 
local community
GRI 414  Supplier Social Assessment
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Supply Chain Social Impact P84
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain Social Impact P84
GRI 416  Customer Health and Safety
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 
and service categoriesBuild a Value Chain that 
Protects Food SafetyP17
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 
impacts of products and services/No related incidents 
occur
GRI 417  Marketing and Labeling
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelingCustomer Relationship 
ManagementP81
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 
information and labeling/No related incidents
occur
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 
communications/No related incidents
occur
GRI 418  Customer Privacy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer data/No substantiated 
complaints received
GRI 419  Socioeconomic Compliance
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 
and economic area/No major violations of 
laws and regulations 
in the social and
economic areaGRI Standards Disclosure Title Chapter Notes Page GRI Standards Disclosure Title Chapter Notes Page123 122
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Assurance Report
125 124
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
YUMC
 FOOD
 ENVIRONMENT
 PEOPLE
 COMMUNITY
 APPENDIX
Direct (Scope 1) 
GHG EmissionsDirect (Scope 1) GHG Emissions of Yum China in 2021 were the direct (Scope1) GHG emissions generated 
by Yum China's company-owned KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Little Sheep, Huang Ji Huang, East Dawning, 
COFFii & JOY and Lavazza restaurants, and Yum China own-operated logistics centers in 2021. The majority 
of direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions are derived from installation, operation and disposal of refrigeration and 
air-conditioning equipment, which is calculated by using Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Equipment 
Tool issued by GHG Protocol. The type of refrigerant and original refrigerant charge of refrigeration 
equipment comes from the nameplate. The type of refrigerant of air-conditioning equipment comes from 
the nameplate, and the average restaurant original refrigerant charge of air-conditioning equipment 
is defined by Yum China based on the restaurant area and refrigerant charge. The Global Warming 
Potential (GWP) of refrigerant refers to the 100-year GWP values in the Fifth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and 2017 American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and 
Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHARE) Handbook – Fundamentals. The rest of direct (Scope 1) emissions 
are derived from natural gas consumption from Yum China company-owned Little Sheep and Huang 
Ji Huang restaurants, which is calculated by multiplying each restaurant’s natural gas consumption 
by the emission factors of natural gas. The carbon dioxide emission factor of natural gas refers to the 
emission factor in the GHG Emission Accounting Method and Reporting Guide for Food, Tobacco, 
Alcohol, Beverage and Refined Tea Enterprises (Trial) issued by the National Development and Reform 
Commission. Natural gas consumption refers to the data on natural gas bills from restaurant.
Energy Indirect 
(Scope 2) GHG 
EmissionsEnergy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions of Yum China in 2021 were the energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions generated by Yum China's company-owned KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Little Sheep, Huang Ji 
Huang, East Dawning, COFFii & JOY and Lavazza restaurants, and Yum China offices and own-operated 
logistics centers in 2021. The majority of energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions are derived from 
electricity consumption, which is calculated by multiplying each restaurant's electricity consumption 
by the average carbon dioxide emission factors of regional power grid. The average carbon dioxide 
emission factors of regional power grid refer to the emission factor of 2012 in the 'Average Carbon 
Dioxide Emission Factors of China's Regional Power Grids in 2011 and 2012' issued by the National 
Development and Reform Commission. The rest of indirect (Scope 2) emissions are derived from 
purchased heat, which is calculated by multiplying purchased heat consumption of each restaurant 
from heating areas by the carbon dioxide emission factors of heating power supply.
Total Electricity 
ConsumptionTotal electricity consumption of Yum China in 2021 was the electricity consumed by Yum China's 
company-owned KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Little Sheep, Huang Ji Huang, East Dawning, COFFii & JOY 
and Lavazza restaurants, and Yum China offices and own-operated logistics centers in 2021. Electricity 
consumption refers to the data on electricity bills from restaurants, offices and own-operated logistics 
centers.
Average 
Restaurant 
Electricity
ConsumptionAverage restaurant electricity consumption of Yum China in 2021 was the average electricity consumption of Yum 
China's company-owned KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Little Sheep, Huang Ji Huang, East Dawning, COFFii & JOY and 
Lavazza restaurants in 2021. The total electricity consumption of Yum China’s company-owned KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco 
Bell, Little Sheep, Huang Ji Huang, East Dawning, COFFii & JOY and Lavazza restaurants is used for calculating the 
average restaurant electricity consumption.
Total Water 
ConsumptionTotal water consumption of Yum China in 2021 was the water consumed by Yum China's company-owned 
KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Little Sheep, Huang Ji Huang, East Dawning, COFFii & JOY and Lavazza restaurants 
in 2021. Each restaurant's water consumption is calculated by dividing its water fee by the average water 
unit price of each province defined by Yum China. Water fee refers to the restaurants' water bills. The 
average water unit price of each province is calculated based on the actual water unit price of different 
locations in the province.
Average 
Restaurant Water 
ConsumptionAverage restaurant water consumption of Yum China in 2021 was the average water consumption of 
Yum China's company-owned KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Little Sheep, Huang Ji Huang, East Dawning, 
COFFii & JOY and Lavazza restaurants in 2021.Amount of UCO 
Converted into 
Biodiesel in 
Sichuan Biodiesel 
ProjectAmount of UCO converted into biodiesel in Yum China Sichuan biodiesel project in 2021 was the 
amount of UCO converted into biodiesel in the biodiesel project, which was carried out in Yum China’s 
KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell restaurants in Sichuan in 2021. The amount of UCO converted into biodiesel 
refers to the data on receipts from UCO collectors.
Percentage of 
RSPO-certified 
Palm OilPercentage of RSPO-certified palm oil of Yum China in 2021 was the percentage of RSPO certified palm 
oil in all the purchased palm oil products of Yum China in 2021.
Percentage of CSR 
Audited Critical 
SuppliersPercentage of CSR audited critical suppliers of Yum China in 2021 was the percentage of CSR audited 
critical suppliers in all the critical suppliers of Yum China in 2021. Yum China's critical suppliers 
include Innovative Suppliers and Key Suppliers (excluding service suppliers, overseas suppliers, small 
procurement suppliers with annual procurement less than RMB 2 million yuan, IT service suppliers and 
headquarter suppliers).
Share of Women in 
Total WorkforceShare of women in total workforce of Yum China in 2021 was the percentage of female employees out 
of all employees of Yum China at the end of 2021. The total number of employees refers to the number 
of full-time and part-time employees directly hired by Yum China at the end of 2021, including office 
staff and restaurant staff. The number of female employees refers to the full-time and part-time female 
employees directly hired by Yum China at the end of 2021, including office staff and restaurant staff.
Lost-time Injury 
Frequency Rate for 
EmployeesLost-time injury frequency rate for employees of Yum China in 2021 was the number of lost-time injuries 
per one million hours worked for employees of Yum China in 2021. The working hours are the total 
working hours of full-time and part-time employees directly hired by Yum China in 2021, including office 
staff and restaurant staff. The number of lost-time injuries is the number of injury leaves of full-time and 
part-time employees directly hired by Yum China in 2021, including office staff and restaurant staff. The 
lost-time refers to the loss of productivity for Yum China as a result of a work-related injury. The following 
incidents are not considered to be work-related injury: 1) a worker suffers a heart attack while at work that 
is unconnected with work; 2) a worker driving to or from work is injured in a car accident (where driving 
is not part of the work, and where the transport has not been organized by Yum China); 3) a worker with 
epilepsy has a seizure at work that is unconnected with work. The definition of work-related injury is based 
on the definition from GRI standards-GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018.
Work-related 
Fatalities for 
EmployeesWork-related fatalities for employees of Yum China in 2021 were the number of fatalities as a result of 
work-related injury of full-time and part-time employees directly hired by Yum China in 2021, including 
office staff and restaurant staff. The work-related fatalities refer to the death of an employee arising from 
an occupational disease or injury sustained while performing work that is controlled by Yum China in 
2021. The following incidents are not considered to be work-related injury: 1) a worker suffers a heart 
attack while at work that is unconnected with work; 2) a worker driving to or from work is injured in a 
car accident (where driving is not part of the work, and where the transport has not been organized 
by Yum China); 3) a worker with epilepsy has a seizure at work that is unconnected with work. The 
definition of work-related injury is based on the definition from GRI standards- GRI 403: Occupational 
Health and Safety 2018.  
Total Amount of 
Packaging UsageTotal amount of packaging usage of Yum China in 2021 was the total amount of Plastic and Paper 
packaging usage in 2021. The amount of paper packaging usage is calculated by adding the amount of 
raw paper supplied from suppliers and the amount of molded pulp. The amount of plastic packaging 
usage equals to the weight of each packaging item multiplied by the number of items in either each 
case or bag, as well as the total number of cases and bags in 2021.  No. No. Data Data Basis Basis
13121110987
1
2
3
4
5
6Basis of Assured Data126
Yum China Sustainability Report 2021
