Sustainability Report2020
Creating A
Responsible
EcosystemCreating A
Responsible
Ecosystem
Remarks by Yum China CEO
About this Report
Our Vision02
04
06CONTENTS
Overview
Growth Powered by Innovation
Sustainability Highlights
External Recognition06
07
08
09
Business Ethics 11
Sustainability Strategies
Contribution to the SDGs
Sustainability Governance
Stakeholder Engagement
Materiality Assessment12
14
15
16
17Corporate Governance 10
Sustainability Management 12
FOOD
APPENDIXYUM CHINA
20
10802
ENVIRONMENT 40Building a Value Chain that Protects
Food Safety
Technology Enabled Food Safety 
Management
Multi-dimensional Product Innovation
Actively Promote Industry Development
Key Performance Indicators
GRI Content Index
Assurance Report
Basis of Assured Data24
32
34
38
109
110
116
117
Honoring Environmental Commitments 
and Promoting Climate Action
Practicing Green Operations to Build 
Green Restaurants
Partnering with Suppliers to Build a 
Sustainable Upstream Ecosystem
Promoting Sustainable Packaging with 
Innovative Green Design44
47
54
56PEOPLE 58
Accelerating Employee Growth to Achieve 
Company Vision
"Customer Mania" Services with AI-Enabled 
Solution
Practicing Responsible Sourcing and 
Collaborative Partnership to Promote Social 
Responsibilities62
77
81
COMMUNITY 84
Improving Child Nutrition and Revitalizing 
Rural Industry
Promoting Education Equity
Giving Back to the Community
Caring for Special Groups and Fulfilling Special 
Needs
Promoting Traditional Chinese Culture and 
Healthy Lifestyles
Reducing Food Waste and Building a 
Responsible Society88
92
94
97
101
107Remarks by Yum China CEO
We strive to establish a responsible ecosystem by building sustainable restaurants, 
creating a sustainable supply chain with partners, and building sustainable 
communities with all stakeholders. Easy to say, but making real-world progress 
involves dealing with highly complex interactions.With more than thirty years of operations in China, 
our culture and our values have been built on a solid 
foundation of caring – for our customers and employees, 
and for our society at large. The United Nations 2030 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) inspire us to 
broaden the focus of our commitment still further: to the 
sustainability of our planet for the sake of generations far 
into the future.
2020 was an extraordinary year, in which the world faced 
unprecedented disruption from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
We determined very early to do our best to continue to 
serve: our customers with healthy, nutritious meals and 
our people with employment security. To those ends, we 
pioneered contactless delivery and takeaway services, and 
we provided donations, free meals, and voluntary services 
to medical workers on the front lines. I take great pride in 
how our people responded to help the communities we 
serve get through an incredibly trying time.
As the world recovers, we are excited to turn our 
capabilities to the broader challenges of the future. In 
2020, we engaged internal and external stakeholders – 
shareholders, suppliers, customers, industry associations, 
franchisees, directors, management, and employees – 
for a comprehensive materiality review. Which is to say, 
we started by listening. Processing what we learned, 
we resolved to focus our efforts around three pillars: 
Environment, Food, and People. Within these, we identified 
23 material issues in our value chain to work on as our initial 
sustainability priorities. All these, and more, are covered in 
detail in the report that follows.
We strive to establish a responsible ecosystem by building 
sustainable restaurants, creating a sustainable supply 
chain with partners, and building sustainable communities 
with all stakeholders. Easy to say, but making real-world 
progress involves dealing with highly complex interactions. 
Yet progress we must: our responsibility to future 
generations demands it. So, while the myriad components 
of the sustainability equation may be complicated, the 
bottom line is simple:
We commit to a series of public goals for sustainability 
priorities, including our latest commitment to the 
Science-Based Target initiative that we announced earlier 
to address climate change.
We commit to reaching science-based net-zero emissions 
by 2050.
Meeting these commitments will be anything but 
straightforward. Not only will we have to deploy every 
capability in our arsenal, but we will also have to innovate, 
because much of what needs to be done, we simply do not 
know how to do today, and some high-impact initiatives 
will require very difficult tradeoffs.
We are working on multiple fronts, and we are starting to 
see some results. A few example initiatives:Modern Kitchen. We have been deploying our restaurant 
site development expertise to modernize school kitchens 
in rural areas of China since 2010. The key is converting 
them from wood or coal to electrical power. We work with 
local authorities to upgrade water and power feeds, then 
donate and install modern kitchen equipment (including 
huge woks that can serve 200!). Children get better cooked, 
healthier meals; energy consumption is reduced by 50-75%; 
and there is less air pollution. As of the end of 2020, we 
had donated modern kitchen equipment to close to 1,200 
schools in 13 provinces, serving nearly 400,000 children.
Food Bank.  We work hard to reduce food waste, and 
technology has helped us significantly. But our scale is 
such that even a tiny percentage adds up to quite a lot of 
food. We have begun to freeze food that has been cooked 
and has gotten cold. We place the frozen food in a freezer 
outside the restaurant and invite needy residents to help 
themselves (in cooperation with local authorities to ensure 
that it goes to the truly needy in an orderly way). We piloted 
the program in Shenzhen KFC restaurants in September 
2020 and have already expanded it to 45 restaurants in 13 
cities as of the end of May 2021.
Angel Restaurant. We have long believed that everyone who 
wants to work hard deserves an opportunity – including 
those with special needs. We piloted our first Angel 
Restaurant in 2012, using modified equipment, operational 
processes, and training to assist “angel employees” – those 
with special needs – to perform the full range of jobs. By 
the end of 2020, we had opened 24 Angel Restaurants in 23 
cities, providing jobs for over 200 young people with special 
needs each year. And one of our angels has been promoted 
to restaurant manager!
Conversion of Used Cooking Oil (UCO). This waste recycling 
initiative is an innovative program that delivers great 
environmental and social impact beyond regulatory 
compliance. Firstly, biodiesel converted from UCO can be 
utilized in aviation fuel and other purposes, contributing 
to the circular economy with potential significant GHG 
emissions reduction. Secondly, the ISCC certification process 
helps prevent UCO returning back to dining table through 
online data collection & tracking system developed along 
with the pilot in Chengdu. 
So, it won’t be easy but the stakes are enormous and 
future generations depend on our succeeding. We are fully 
committed.
I sincerely want to thank everyone who has contributed to 
our progress to date, and I encourage all our employees, 
customers, partners, shareholders, and other stakeholders 
to join us on this journey to drive meaningful change and 
create a better future for our planet. Joey Wat 
Chief Executive Officer 
Yum China Holdings, Inc.
Yum China Sustainability Report 2020FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX
02 03
YUMCAbout this Report
Yum China Holdings, Inc. (“Yum China”) publishes an annual Sustainability Report (the “Report”) to communicate with 
stakeholders about our management and practices in sustainable development. This is the fourth report since 2018. 
Reporting Period 
The reporting period covers January 1 to December 31, 2020, though some 
facts and figures may fall outside of the period if necessary. 
Reporting Cycle
The Report is published annually. 
Reporting Scope 
Yum China Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries 
and branches.
Basis of Preparation 
The Report is prepared in accordance 
with the Global Reporting Initiative (G 
R I ) Sustainability Reporting  Standards 
(GRI Standards) issued by the Global 
Sustainability Standard Board (GSSB). 
It also refers to the rating require -
ments of the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Indices (DJSI), rating requirements 
of MSCI, GB/T 36000-2015 Guidance 
on Social Responsibility , the UN 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, 
relevant regulatory requirements 
and other relevant international and 
Chinese standards and guidelines for 
sustainable development.
Preparation Process Data Source
Relevant information, data and cases are collected from Yum China. The Sustainability Committee has 
reviewd and approved the Report.
Reference
“Yum China Holdings, Inc. ” in the Report is also referred to as “Yum China” , “YUMC” , “We” and “the 
Company” . 
"China" in this Report refers to the People’s Republic of China, excluding Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan.
Report Access and Feedback 
The Report is available in Chinese and English, in print and electronic formats. If you have any 
suggestions, please contact us at: 
· E-mail:CSR@yumchina.com
· Address:6F-16F, Yum China Building, 20 Tian Yao Qiao Road, Shanghai 200030, China 
Note
The data on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (page 46), energy consumption (page 47), water 
consumption (page 51), and green building standards (page 53) in the Report includes data from 
all company-owned and unconsolidated affiliate restaurants of the KFC and Pizza Hut brands, 
accounting for about 84% of the total number of Yum China’s restaurants as of December 31,2020. 
Other data and targets in this Report cover all business operations of Yum China. 
Data and figures are shown in RMB unless otherwise stated.
In this report, description of “Yum China is the largest restaurant company in China” is based on the 
2020 system sales.
This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities 
Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended 
(the “Exchange Act”). We intend all forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor 
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should consult our filings with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the information set forth under the captions "Risk 
Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q) for additional detail 
about factors that could affect our financial and other results.1
5
6
72
3
4Opinion solicitation and 
reviewData collectionMateriality identification 
and updateKick-off   
Report releaseData assurance by 3rd partyReport design and 
translation
Yum China Sustainability Report 2020FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX
04 05
YUMC  Yum China Digital EcosystemGrowth Powered by Innovation 
Yum China is the largest restaurant company in China in terms of 2020 system sales. Our growing restaurant network consists 
of flagship KFC and Pizza Hut brands, as well as emerging brands such as Little Sheep, Huang Ji Huang, COFFii & JOY, East 
Dawning, Taco Bell and Lavazza. At the end of December 2020, Yum China had 10,506 restaurants in over 1,500 cities with over 
400,000 employees. 
Over the past three decades, we have built a significant 
lead not just in scale, but also in brand loyalty, development 
capabilities, innovative product offerings, industry-
leading digital and delivery capabilities, a robust supply chain management system, a strong financial profile, a 
highly-talented workforce and a seasoned and passionate 
management team. 10,506*
restaurants including 
1,165 new stores in 20201,500+*
cities400,000+*
employeesOur Vision :
To Be the World’s Most Innovative Pioneer in the Restaurant Industry
OverviewYum China’s vision is to become the world’s most innovative 
pioneer in the restaurant industry. We are dedicated to 
adopting innovations in our business model and restaurant 
operations in the areas of menu innovation, digitalization 
and delivery: 
· introducing new menu items that meet evolving  
consumer preferences and local tastes; 
· seeking to apply tech-enabled enhancements to 
provide guests with a personalized and enriched dining 
experience and to increase our operational efficiency 
across the board; and
· continuing to optimize our delivery services by creating 
synergies between brick-and-mortar restaurant units and delivery services, taking advantage of our extensive 
restaurant network in China to improve efficiency and 
increase margins.
We believe we are a pioneer and first-mover among 
restaurant brands in China in utilizing and investing in 
emerging digital technologies to modernize our business 
operations and accelerate our growth, which is critical 
to empower and maintain our competitive advantage in 
China. In recent years, we have stepped up our investment 
in digitalization, embarking on end-to-end digitalization 
of our business operations. We will continue investment 
in digital, technology and supply chain to fortify our 
competitive advantages.
Yum China became an independent publicly traded company on November 1, 2016 on the NYSE, and was secondary-listed on 
the HKEX on September 10, 2020. Super AppsMobile
Pre-orderMobile
Tableside Order
Online
Queuing
K-RunDelivery
V-gold &
Merchandise
 Book Kingdom
K-Music
E-Gifting
Membership
Program
Privilege 
Program
Operations
 Marketing
YUMC 
Pay
Smile to Pay
Payment
* As of December 31, 2020
Yum China Sustainability Report 2020FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX
06 07
YUMCSustainability Highlights External Recognition
We prioritize and track sustainability goals and commitments in three strategic areas: Environment, Food, and People. Our ESG efforts are highly recognized.
Material Topic Goals and Commitments Progress in 2020
Climate ActionCommit to setting science-based 
emissions reduction targets, in line
with SBTi criteria
Reach net-zero value chain GHGs 
emissions by 2050Achieved the 10% GHG emissions 
reduction goal as compare to 2017 
baseline ahead of schedule
The total amount of GHG emissions 
in 2020 was 2,009,372  tons of 
CO2 equivalent
Water Reduce average restaurant water 
consumption by an additional 10% by 
2025, as compared to the 2017 baselineReduced average restaurant water 
consumption by 2,710  tons, 
representing a 22%  reduction from 
2017
PackagingReduce non-degradable plastic 
consumption by 30% by 2025, as 
compared to the 2019 baseline
All customer-facing and plastic 
packaging is recyclableUsed recyclable plastic materials 
for all newly developed plastic 
packaging items
Saved  1,200  tons of plastic 
packaging by the end of 2020
Green BuildingAll newly-built restaurants fully comply 
with the Yum China Green Building 
Standards100% complete
Supply Chain
Social ImpactYum China CSR audit covers all 
critical suppliers100% complete
Supply Chain 
Environmental 
ImpactPurchase RSPO*-certified palm oil only
100% of FSC**-certified paper packaging 
by 2025
Build a zero-deforestation supply 
chain 100% of palm oil was RSPO-certified
Food Safety and
QualityFood safety and quality audits cover 
100% restaurants and logistics centers
Food safety and quality training and 
assessments cover 100% of employees in 
restaurants and logistics centers100% complete
Diversity and 
Equal OpportunityAt least 50% of our employees are 
female.
At least 50% of all employees who are 
hired, trained, promoted and retained 
are female.
Over 1.5% of full-time jobs is offered to 
people with disabilities.64% of total workforce
59% of employees hired
64% of employees trained
62% of employees promoted
Community CareOur employees volunteer no less than 1.5 
million hours per year100% completeYum China was certified as a
Top Employer China for the third consecutive year by the Top Employers Institute in 2021
Yum China was named to  the 
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI) 
for the third consecutive year and was the only company in mainland China included in 2021 GEI
Yum China was awarded the Harvard Business Review
Ram Charan Management Practice Award and Fighting against COVID-19 Action Award
Yum China was selected as one of the 
Top 10 Innovators on Fast Company’s Annual List for 2020
Yum China won the
Annual Responsible Exemplary Enterprise Award and Special Contribution to Poverty Alleviation Award
In the 2020 Responsible Practice List 
Yum China’s One Yuan Donation program won the
Evergreen Award in China CSR Excellence Award in 2020KFC China’s "Mom Restaurants for Little Migratory Birds" program was recognized at the inaugural 
UN Women China WEP (Women’s Empowerment Principles) Awards in 2020
Pizza Hut Public Reading Program won the
2020 China CSR Excellence Award at the China Corporate Social Responsibility Summit Forum 
Yum China’s IoT cold chain logistics monitoring platform won the
Smart Logistics Technological Innovation Aw ard
at the Smart Logistics Equipment Upgrade Seminar in 2020Yum China was awarded the
Omni-Experience Innovator and Digital Trailblazer in the Retail Industry
and 2020 IDC China Digital Transformation AwardYum China was named the
Industry Leader for the Restaurant & Leisure Facilities Industry in the 2020 Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indices
* Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) 
** Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 
Yum China Sustainability Report 2020FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX08 09
YUMCCorporate Governance
The business and affairs of the Company are managed under the direction of the Board of Directors (the “Board”). The 
Board believes that good corporate governance is a critical factor in achieving business success and in fulfilling the Board’s 
responsibilities to stockholders. The Board believes that its practices align management and stockholder interests.
The Board has adopted Corporate Governance Principles, which are intended to embody the governance principles and 
procedures by which the Board functions. The Board has standing Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Nominating 
and Governance Committee and Food Safety and Sustainability Committee. The committees operate pursuant to their 
respective written charters. Corporate Governance Principles and committee charters are available on the Company’s Investor 
Relations website at ir.yumchina.com.Business Ethics
Director IndependenceIndependent Board Chairman
9 of 10 directors are independent
Director Elections and
AttendanceAnnual election of all directors
Majority voting policy for elections of directors in uncontested 
elections
Proxy access for director nominees by stockholders
97% director attendance at Board and committee meetings in 
2020
Board Refreshment and DiversityDirectors with experience, qualifications and skills across a wide 
range of public and private companies
Directors reflect a diversity of gender, race and ethnicity
Average director age of 55 as of April 15, 2021
Independent and non-management directors may generally not 
stand for re-election after age 75
Other Governance PracticesActive stockholder engagement
No shareholder rights plan (also known as a poison pill)
Director and executive officer stock ownership policies
Policy prohibiting hedging or other speculative trading of 
Company stock
Policy regarding resignation if any director experiences a 
significant change in professional roles and responsibilities
Board access to senior management and independent advisors
  Corporate Governance Policies and Practices of Yum China
* For more information about corporate governance, please refer to the Investor Relations website of Yum China and the  Yum China 
2021 Proxy Statement . Yum China Holdings, Inc. Code of Conduct (“Code of 
Conduct”) was adopted to emphasize the Company’s 
commitment to the highest standards of business conduct. 
The Code of Conduct  also sets forth information and 
procedures for employees to report ethical or accounting 
concerns, misconduct or violations of the Code of Conduct  
in a confidential manner. The Code of Conduct  applies to all 
directors and employees of the Company. All employees of 
the Company are required, on an annual basis, to complete 
the Yum China Code of Conduct Questionnaire  and certify 
in writing that they have read and understand the Code of 
Conduct . Yum China also requires each supplier to sign the 
Supplier Code of Conduct  to ensure that their businesses 
comply with all legal norms and business ethics.We conduct conflict-of-interest checks every 6-12 months 
to identify and avoid misconduct that would conflict with 
the Company’s interests, such as related party transactions. 
Our internal audit function reviews and handles business 
ethics issues at all levels and investigate reports and 
complaints from all parties. We encourage our employees 
and suppliers to participate in building our business 
ethics and compliance culture. We provide employees and 
suppliers with various complaint and reporting channels 
to identify non-compliant behaviors promptly. Material 
business ethics incidents will be reported to the Company’s 
senior management and the Board.
 Yum China Complaint and Reporting Channels for Non-complianceTelephone Hotline
China: 400-8-801-346
US: 1-800-241-5689Web Platform
Employee Complaint and Integrity Compliance 
Reporting System
www.yumchina.com/compliance
Whistleblowing Supplier Reporting Platform
www.yumchina.com/chuishaorenMail
Submit directly to the relevant 
department or person in 
charge
Yum China Sustainability Report 2020FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX
10 11
YUMCSustainable Restaurants
Sustainable Supply Chain
Sustainable CommunitySupply Chain 
Environmental 
ImpactSupply Chain Social 
ImpactRestaurant Food 
Safety & Quality 
Nutrition & Health
Supply Chain Food 
Safety & Quality 
Animal Welfare
Genetically Modified 
OrganismsPackaging 
Water
Food Loss & Waste
Climate Action
Green BuildingOccupational Health & Safety
Human Rights & 
Labor Practice 
Information Security & Data
Privacy  
Employee Training & Development
Diversity & Equal Opportunity
Community Care
Poverty Alleviation 
Public Awareness & 
Education
Care for Special Groups
  Sustainability Strategies of Yum ChinaSustainability Strategies
We strive to establish a responsible ecosystem and advance sustainability issues from 
our three strategic pillars: Environment, Food, and People. We drive relevant strategies, 
goals, and initiatives by building sustainable restaurants, creating a sustainable supply 
chain with partners, and building sustainable communities with all stakeholders. 
In the Environmental pillar, we focus on environmental protection and our responsibil-
ities. We devote ourselves to reducing our environmental impacts through 4R (Reduce, 
Reuse, Recycle, and Replace) Principles.
In the Food pillar, we are committed to providing safe, healthy, and delicious food for 
every customer. 
In the People pillar, we focus on all stakeholders in the value chain, including our em-
ployees, customers, and the communities where our restaurants are located. We share 
our culture of “Fair, Care, Pride” , endeavoring to provide support and care and create a 
positive social impact for partners and communities in the value chain.  Sustainable Platform for GROWTH
Environment Food
We CARE about 
our environment and 
minimizing our footprintWe CARE about 
our customers with 
safe & nutritious foods
Corporate Governance and CulturePeople
We CARE about 
our people with 
“Fair, Care and Pride” Our sustainability strategy is effectively integrated with the company's long-term 
business growth strategy - "Sustainable Platform for Growth" . We focus on innovative 
initiatives that are scalable, sustainable and mutually beneficial for Yum China and 
society at large. In 2020, we revisited the material topics based upon emerging 
industry challenges and linked our strategic action and priorities to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs).
We are well-positioned to address emerging challenges, capture potential 
opportunities, and set long-term goals that are consistent with the domestic and 
international landscape as well as the UN SDGs.
Business
Integration
Ecosystem
Enabler
Proactive
LeadingBusiness Ethics Customer Relationship ManagementSustainability Management
As China’s largert restaurant company, Yum China’s 
business operations have a significant economic, social, 
and environmental impact. The communities in which we 
operate increasingly expect us to integrate sustainability 
into business growth. We are also aware of the profound 
responsibilities and opportunities brought by global 
challenges including climate change and plastic pollution. 
We are committed to providing safe and nutritious food for 
customers and contributing to social and environmental sustainability. We spare no effort to improve the food we 
eat, the water we drink, and the air we breathe. Making 
sustainable development an integral part of our corporate 
strategy helps us identify sustainable development 
opportunities and promote product and business 
innovation. It also helps us to build mutually beneficial 
relationships with stakeholders, thereby enhancing the 
Company’s long-term value.
Yum China Sustainability Report 2020FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX
12 13
YUMCSustainability Governance
Since its listing on the NYSE in 2016, Yum China has estab -
lished sustainability management mechanisms all the way 
from the Board to the frontline restaurant teams. We have 
appointed a sustainability officer and established a profes-
sional sustainability team. 
At the Board level, the Food Safety and Sustainability Com-
mittee assists the Board in its oversight of the Company’s 
practices, policies, procedures, strategies and initiatives 
relating to sustainability, including environmental, supply 
chain and food nutrition and health. The Food Safety and 
Sustainability Committee monitors trends, issues and con-
cerns affecting the Company’s sustainability practices, pol -
icies, procedures, strategies and initiatives. The Food Safety 
and Sustainability Committee obtains reports from man-
agement as the Committee deems necessary or desirable. Yum China also established a Sustainability Committee 
comprised of selected Leadership Team members, the 
sustainability officer, and cross-functional teams. The Sus-
tainability Committee members meet quarterly to track the 
implementation of material topics, evaluate sustainability 
risks, and develop risk management strategies and meas -
ures. Working with other functions and external resources, 
our Sustainability Task Force will assess internal and external 
challenges to understand stakeholders’ concerns, develop 
Yum China’s sustainability action plans and promote the im-
plementation of key projects in line with the SDGs.Contribution to the SDGs
The SDGs are a collection of 17 global goals that balance 
the environmental, social and economic dimensions of 
sustainable development. The SDGs define the UN 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, providing a strategic 
framework for enterprises meeting the requirements of the 
SDGs and integrating sustainable development into their 
operations.In 2020, Yum China analyzed the correlation between our 
material topics and the SDGs from the strategic standpoint 
of our Environment, Food, and People pillars to identify 
how we could contribute to the SDGs on which we have 
the most significant impact. As a responsible company, Yum 
China will continue to work towards developing our targets 
and actions designed to support the UN 2030 Agenda.
  Yum China’s Sustainability Management StructureBoard of Directors
The Food Safety and 
Sustainability Committee
Yum China Management Team
The Sustainability 
Committee
Sustainability Task Force
Sustainability Team and Cross-
functional Teams
Market Operations TeamsOversee practices, policies, procedures, strategies 
and initiatives relating to sustainability  (including 
environmental, supply chain and food nutrition and 
health)
Track the implementation of material issues, evaluate 
sustainability risks, and develop risk management 
strategies and measures
Understand the concerns of stakeholders, develop 
sustainability action plans, and promote the 
implementation of key projects
Carry out sustainability projects/initiatives and improve 
sustainability/ESG performanceEnvironment
Environment
PeopleFood
Food
Community
People
Yum China Sustainability Report 2020FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX
14 15
YUMCMateriality Assessment
We prioritize our impact on the economy, society, and environment amid a wide range of sustainability topics. We engage 
stakeholders throughout the materiality assessment process which helps determine the key topics under our pillars of 
Environment, Food, and People in our value chain to support long-term sustainability.  
  Assessment Process of material topicsMethodology - Materiality Assessment
In 2020, referencing to the SDGs, the  GRI Standard  issued by the Global Sustainability Standard Board, SASB standard  issued 
by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, the three ESG ratings, DJSI, MSCI, ISS, and relevant regulatory requirements, 
we reviewed and analyzed the material topics identified in the previous evaluation in combination with peer best practices. 
We sent on-line questionnaires to stakeholders including Franchisors, shareholders and investors, the Board of Directors, 
management members, employees, customers, supply chain partners, franchisees, associations and NGOs with 4,400 valid 
responses. We concluded the final material topics after analyzing, prioritizing and verifying the results of the questionnaires. 
Review of 2019 
materiality assessment
Peer brands’ 
benchmarking
Stakeholder analysis
Strategy and value chain 
analysisInternal & external 
stakeholders’ engagement 
and interviews
Identify and adjust 
material topicsPrioritize according to 
internal and external 
expectationsVerify material topics 
identification by top-
level management and 
external experts 
Finalize the revised 
material topicsSTEP1 STEP3 STEP2 STEP4
Review  Identification Prioritizing VerificationStakeholder Engagement 
Identifying and engaging stakeholders is fundamental to Yum China’s sustainability development. We incorporate 
stakeholders’ expectations and focal areas into our sustainability development planning for performance improvement. 
Yum China uses a variety of engagement practices for eight key stakeholder groups:
Stakeholder Groups Engagement Approaches Expectations and Concerns
Franchisors, Shareholders, and Investors
Yum! Brands, institutional investors, ESG rating 
agencies, etc.· Annual Shareholder Meetings 
· Annual and Quarterly Reports 
· Press Releases
· Investor Conferences 
· Emails and Telephone 
Communications
· Investor Survey· Returns on Investment 
· Information Disclosure 
· ESG Management and 
Performance
Governments and Regulators
Food safety regulators, central and local
government, etc.· Regular Conferences 
· Seminars 
· Written Replies to Public 
Inquiries· Food Safety and Quality 
· Environmental Compliance 
· Contribution to the 
Development of Healthy China 
· Poverty Alleviation 
· Industrial Development 
· Support Vulnerable Groups
Customers
Organizations and individuals who purchase 
products from Yum China· Direct Communications in 
Restaurants 
· Customer Satisfaction Surveys 
and Feedback 
· Customer Service Centers 
· Social Media 
· Online Service· Safe, Reliable, and Delicious 
Food 
· Good Dining Experience and 
Food Service
Board, Management, and Employees· Board Meetings
· Management Meetings
· Employee Communication and 
Feedback Platforms 
· Employee Engagement Surveys 
· RGM Conventions 
· Founders’ Day· Group overall Sustainability 
Performance 
· Fair Working Environment 
· Capability Improvement and 
Development Opportunities 
· Welfare and Security 
· Flexible Working Time
Supply Chain Partners
Suppliers, logistics service providers, 
construction service providers, etc.· Business Review Meetings 
· Management Team Dialogues 
· Supplier Visits 
· Supply Chain Partners 
Conventions· Business Development 
· Management Capability 
Building 
· Fostering Development of the 
Industry
Franchisees 
Yum China’s brand franchisees· Business Review Meetings 
· Annual Franchise Conventions· Capability Building and 
Development Support 
· Brand Development
Associations and NGOs
Industry associations, institutes,
universities and NGOs· Working Committees, Groups, 
and Meetings 
· Seminars and Lectures 
· Duties in Associations· Fostering Industry 
Development 
Communities
The communities where Yum China operates· Community Visits 
· Regular Dialogues 
· Volunteer Activities· Contribution to Communities 
· Employee Volunteers
  Yum China’s Stakeholder Engagement System 
Yum China Sustainability Report 2020FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX
16 17
YUMCResults - Materiality Assessment
Through preliminary analysis, prioritization and verification, we have confirmed 23 key material topics in the areas of 
Environment, Food, and People, and defined the content and boundary of each material topic. Compared with the last 
materiality assessment results, we adjusted the importance of the following fives issues, namely Supply Chain Environmental 
Impact, Climate Action, Human Rights and Employee Management, Occupational Health and Safety, Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity, and added two new issues, Customer Relationship Management, and Information Security and Data Privacy 
Protection.
Restaurant Food Safety & Quality
Supply Chain Food Safety & Quality
Nutrition & Health
Genetically Modified Organisms 
Animal Welfare1
2
3
4
56
7
8
9
10
1112
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23Packaging
Supply China Environmental Impact
Food Loss & Waste
Water
Climate Action
Green BuildingEnvironment People Food
Business Ethics
Supply Chain Social Impact
Human Rights & Labor Practice 
Employee Training & Development 
Occupational Health & Safety 
Information Security & Data Privacy 
Diversity & Equal Opportunity 
Customer Relationship Management
Poverty Alleviation
Community Care
Public Awareness & Education 
Care for Special Groups 
Internal Expectations
External Expectations1
2
5
436
8
1012
14
15
17 18
192021
22
2316
11713
9Very high Moderate High
Yum China Sustainability Report 2020FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX
18 19
YUMCServing great tasting food is the cornerstone of Yum China’s success in China. As China’s 
largest restaurant company, we have made food safety a top priority since the first KFC 
store opened in China over 30 years ago and are committed to providing our customers 
with safe, nutritious, and healthy food of the highest quality. With food safety weaving 
through the entire value chain, we constantly adapt our management processes and 
01Sustainable 
Development 
Background
Customers 
Restaurant Food 
Safety and Quality
Nutrition and Health
Public Awareness 
and EducationUpstream Suppliers
Supplier Food 
Safety and Quality
Emerging Industry 
ChallengesSuppliers
Supplier Food 
Safety and Quality
Emerging Industry 
ChallengesLogistics
  Distribution 
ManagementRestaurants
Restaurant Food 
Safety and Quality
Nutrition and HealthKey Material Topics Across the Value Chain
Our Goals and Commitments High Relevance Medium RelevanceFood safety attracts wide attention in China and internationally. The Food Safety Law 
intensifies government supervision and companies’ responsibilities in food safety.
The Outline of Healthy China 2030 Plan, National Nutrition Plan 2017-2030, Chinese Dietary 
Guideline (2016) and other policies and guidelines advocate balanced and nutritious diets and 
healthy lifestyles. 
Investors have higher expectations of disclosures and information transparency for food 
quality, safety, and nutrition.
Customers have a growing demand for safe, healthy food, and balanced diet. 
Contribution
to the SDGs
Sustainable Supply Chain Sustainable Restaurants Sustainable Communities
Food safety and quality audit covers 100% of restaurants and logistics centers
Food safety and quality training covers 100% of employees in restaurants and 
logistics centersFood Safety and Qualityuse technologies to manage risks from suppliers and logistics centers 
to restaurants and delivery. We advocate a balanced diet and healthy 
eating habits, and we lead by example to contribute to nutrition 
and health in China through product innovation and other relevant 
measures. We foster healthy industry development by collaborating 
with various stakeholders, promoting mutually beneficial co-
operation, and participating in social governance in food safety, 
nutrition and health. 
20 21
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Our Management ApproachesOur Roadmap
eQA:  Online food safety 
management system from 
farm to fork.Holistic Governance and Oversight: 
We have established a comprehensive 
and holistic governance system that 
extends from the Yum China Food 
Safety and Sustainability Committee 
of the Board to various functions to 
oversee the execution of processes, 
measures, and standards to ensure 
food safety and compliance.Starts with Corporate 
Culture: Food safety is an 
integral part of our corporate 
culture and requires 
the participation of all 
employees, franchisees, and 
suppliers.Management Across the 
Entire Value Chain: We 
embed food safety and 
quality management from 
upstream suppliers, suppliers 
through logistics centers 
to restaurants and delivery, 
paying special attention to 
key trending issues.Preventing and 
Mitigating Risks: We 
have established a risk 
monitoring and advance 
alert mechanism on 
regulation and policy 
changes and industry 
risks; and to mitigate 
risks through preventive 
actions.Building a Value Chain that Protects Food Safety
Technology Enabled Food Safety Management 
iQA: End-to-end quality 
management processes 
digitalization, real-time 
data connectivity, risk 
detection and rectification. iFS: Intelligent food safety risk 
detection and control using 
Knowledge Graph of Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) technology. IoT Cold Chain 
Monitoring: Cold 
chain logistics real time 
monitoring to protect 
last-mile food safety.
Multi-dimensional Product Innovation 
Product Innovation: 
Customer needs drive our 
food innovation effort 
to continuous create 
and to increase choices 
of products, flavors, and 
categories. Build new 
brands and channels.Upgrading Recipe: 
We follow the ‘three 
reductions’ principle 
to optimize products 
formulation critical to 
a healthy diet.Abundant Ingredients: 
We aim for a balanced 
meal option with 
increased use of 
ingredients such as 
cereals, fruits, and 
vegetables.Cooking Methods: We 
use multiple cooking 
methods to ensure 
premium flavor and 
consistent quality, 
and to provide wider 
food choices for our 
customers.Kids Meals: We 
offer nutritionally 
balanced meals 
through the 
combination of 
different ingredients.
Actively Promote Industry Development
Contributing to the Industry: We 
promote industry development 
by taking-up key roles in industry 
associations, participating in 
conference and sharing our 
expertise.Regulatory and Standard 
Recommendations: We provide 
professional opinions on food-related 
laws and regulations, participate in 
the development of relevant industry 
group standards.Partnering with Institutions: We collaborate 
with scientific institutions such as China 
Nutrition Society (CNS), to set-up Dietary Health 
Foundation, support scientific researches, and 
promote dietary health. Material Topics Our Directions Progress in 2020
Restaurant Food 
Safety & QualityImplement standardized 
food safety system at 
every restaurant· Conducted over 16,200 Operations Excellence Compliance (OEC)
  on restaurants throughout China 
· Conducted 3,690 product checks on key menu items in 
restaurants
· Microbiological testing of nearly 71,000 samples in restaurants
Supply Chain Food 
Safety & QualityEnsure suppliers and 
upstream suppliers 
comply with relevant 
laws,  regulations and 
Yum China food safety 
standards· Conducted over 400 food safety and quality audits, and over 200 
unannounced inspections on suppliers
· Conducted food safety sampling tests on over 300 key raw 
materials, involving 144 suppliers
Nutrition and HealthDiversify menus with 
more choices of delicious 
and nutritious food· We purchased over 55,000 tons of fruits and vegetables in 2020, 
up 5.8% from 2019
· KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell introduced plant-based protein 
products
· In 2020, we launched about 500 new or upgraded products
Animal WelfareContinuous 
improvement of animal 
welfare in our supply 
chain and in the industry· Established a series of Yum China Animal Welfare Policies  and 
implemented animal welfare audits for broiler breeding and 
slaughtering 
Genetically Modified 
OrganismEnsure regulatory 
compliance· Closely monitor China GMO-related policies and regulations, and 
require suppliers to comply
Public Awareness and 
EducationPromote food safety 
management, support 
education and research 
in the restaurant 
industry, and build public 
awareness of food safety, 
nutrition, and healthy 
diet · In 2020, Yum China participated in and contributed to 23 food 
safety related regulations and standards 
· The China Nutrition Society (CNS) -Yum China Dietary Health 
Foundation supported 7 projects
22 23
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Building a Value Chain that Protects Food Safety  
As the largest restaurant company in China, Yum China is committed to food safety assurance, covering suppliers, logistics, 
restaurants, and delivery. We have developed a comprehensive food safety management system and work with upstream and 
downstream business partners to build a multi-tier food safety culture in our endeavor to provide consumers with food they 
can trust.
Food Safety Commitments
Holistic Governance and Oversight Food safety is Yum China’s 
top priority. We are dedicated to building an 
advanced food safety system and strive 
to provide consumers with safe food.We take on additional social 
responsibilities; to play a leading 
and exemplary role in the industry.
Board of Directors 
/ Food Safety and 
Sustainability 
Committee
Yum China 
Management Team
Supply Chain 
Management Team
Quality Assurance 
Team
Brand Restaurant 
Operation TeamsThe Board of Directors oversees the Company’s risk management framework
Food Safety and Sustainability Committee under the Board of Directors:
  Established in 2017 and currently comprising four directors assisting 
the Board of Directors in its oversight of the Company’s food safety and 
sustainability related practices, programs, processes, and initiatives
Compliance Oversight Committee:
   The committee comprises leaders from  multiple functions, such as Legal, 
Supply Chain Management, Public Affairs, Information Technology, Finance 
and Human Resources
  The committee meets regularly to assess risks, monitor internal controls and 
determine strategy/approach to promote compliance
· Conduct food safety audits on suppliers, logistics centers and restaurants
· Restaurant duty manager inspections 
· District manager patrol inspections
· Food safety/quality auditYum! Brands / Yum 
China Audit TeamsYum China adopts a management mechanism ranging from the Board of Directors/Food Safety and Sustainability Committee 
to functional management teams. This mechanism supervises the development and effective implementation of food safety 
management processes and standards.
Yum China’s corporate culture places a high emphasis on food safety. Internally, we build and improve employee and 
franchisee food safety awareness through food safety training, assessment, as well as reward and penalty mechanisms. 
Externally, we champion a food safety culture among our suppliers and guide them to integrate food safety philosophy into 
their employees’ conduct, laying a solid foundation for food safety management.Starts with Corporate Culture
We see to it that every employee identifies with the value 
of food safety and takes concrete actions to uphold that 
value. We require new employees to read and sign Yum 
China Code of Conduct Confirmation Letter  (applicable to 
office employees), and Employee Manual Confirmation 
Letter (applicable to restaurant employees), to take online 
courses on food safety, and to understand food safety laws 
and regulations and food safety policies and requirements 
of  Yum China. 
As restaurants operation play a key role in protecting 
food safety and implementing safety requirements, we 
require new restaurant employees to watch the video 
on employee compliance, to take online courses on food 
safety, to undergo stringent on-job training and to follow 
Yum China’s food safety operation standards. Existing 
restaurant employees are required to take online food 
safety assessments every year.Yum China Food Safety Culture
Uncompromising 
IntegrityExperts from 
various fields are 
invited to share 
best practices to 
drive continuous 
improvement 
of Yum China’s 
food safety 
management 
processesYum China Food 
Safety Advisory 
Committee
Food safety & quality 
are our first priority
Be the conscience of the 
industry. Stay true to our 
core values
Insist on doing the right 
thingsYum China’s development is supported by an in-house and 
integrated supply chain management team that includes 
Food Safety, Quality Assurance, Engineering, Procurement 
Management, Logistics and Supply Chain System. As of the end of 2020, the supply chain had more than 1,300 profes-
sionals. 
Food Safety Quality Assurance EngineeringProcurement
ManagemertLogisticsRoles & ResponsibilitiesFood safety and
compliance 
management
Regulations and
standards 
enforcement
Risk monitoring, 
risk alerts and 
assessmentsSupplier food 
safety and quality 
management for food 
ingredients, packaging 
and smallwares
Logistics center food 
safety audit and 
management
Restaurant food 
safety audit and 
managementEquipment 
innovation
Packaging 
innovation
Back of 
house
model
innovatonRaw material 
(food and 
non-food) 
and services 
procurement
Supplier 
recruitment
and 
managementInventory 
ordering and 
management 
Warehousing 
cold chain 
logisticsSupply chain 
financial and 
management 
reporting
Supply and demand 
forecasting
Supply chain 
digitalization 
projectsSupply Chain 
System
Supply Chain Risk Assessment Meeting:
  Comprising members from Quality Assurance, Food Safety, Procurement 
Management, and when necessary, involve other functions
  Assess risk in areas such as suppliers, logistics, restaurants and formulate 
preventive measures· 
· 
· 
· 
24 25
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Management Across the Entire Value Chain 
Yum China focuses on the protection of food safety across the entire value chain. We apply advanced management concepts 
and technologies from suppliers and logistics centers  to restaurants and delivery to build trust in every bite.Supplier Food Safety Culture
Yum China incorporates food safety culture into the Yum 
China Food Safety and Quality Audit  and the Yum China 
Supplier Manual , requiring suppliers to establish food 
safety culture programs and commit to implementing 
and maintaining food safety culture at all levels. In 2020, 
we conducted over 20 quality management seminars 
to drive food safety and quality philosophy, to interpret 
regulations and standards, and to share best practices. The 
seminars also covered trending issues such as intelligent 
quality control, processes innovation, and effective crisis 
management protocol, to improve suppliers’ management 
capabilities and raise productivity.
We require our suppliers to follow relevant national laws, regulations, and standards to ensure product compliance and food 
safety, and to meet product specifications and management requirements as agreed in the contract with Yum China. Working 
together with suppliers, we strive to fulfill our food safety commitment from ‘farm-to-fork’ .Supplier Management20
Yum China conducted over 20 quality 
management seminarsIn 2020In 2020, Yum China established the Quality Assurance Manage -
ment Institute, which is a comprehensive and systematic food 
safety and quality training platform to develop our talent pipe -
line and foster professional quality management skills among 
our supply chain team members. We provide technical and pro -
fessional consultation for suppliers and industry peers upon re -
quest to improve their management expertise and leadership.Franchisees are Yum China’s critical business partners. In light of 
this relationship, we request and guide them to develop food 
safety culture in their organizations. Upon joining Yum China, 
franchisees must sign the Franchise Policy Manual and com-
mit to comply with the Operations Manual , Yum China’s Code 
of Conduct  and safety and health standards. We conduct food 
safety training for each franchisee on food safety laws  and reg-
ulations, Yum China’s food safety policies, raw material stand-
ards, and restaurant food safety management.
Yum China adopts rigorous vetting processes for new suppliers by conducting risk assessments, 
qualifications checks, and factory approval audits. We conduct regular reviews to verify whether 
the suppliers’ food safety and quality management systems meet our requirements. In 2020, 
we conducted about 400 food safety and quality audits and over 200 unannounced supplier 
inspections.
In 2020, we updated Yum China’s Supplier Tracking Assessment and Recognition(STAR)  audit 
standard by drawing on the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) certification standard, extracting 
the essence of the audit requirements of Yum China, and integrating the supplier management 
specifications and special control requirements of each category. The updated quality audit 
standard will be fully implemented in 2021.
Yum China has developed a comprehensive management system to regularly assess suppliers’ 
performance in food safety and quality. Based on the assessment results, we grade suppliers 
as T1, T2, T3, and T4, with T1 being the best tier. We reward T1 suppliers with incentives and 
provide coaching and support to T2 and T3 suppliers to improve their management capabilities. 
We suspend supplies or terminate contract with T4 suppliers, and these suppliers will only be 
allowed entry after vetting processes similar to new suppliers. For suppliers of raw materials 
with lower food safety risks (such as some ambient products and seasonings), we require them 
to obtain GFSI certification and / or assessment for food safety and regulatory compliance. We 
conduct quarterly reviews of supplier performance, formulate measures for suppliers to drive 
continuous improvement.
Yum China is committed to transferring advanced food safety and quality management 
practices and expertise to suppliers. For over 10 years, we have offered STAR and other technical 
training to our suppliers to help improve their technical and management skills in areas such 
as food safety, farming techniques, animal welfare, production quality management, processes 
control, and regulatory compliance.
In addition to suppliers’ self-testing, Yum China develops annual raw material sampling 
plan and conducts random tests to ensure compliance with relevant standards. In 2020, our 
sampling tests covered 106 food categories from over 144 suppliers, including over 300 main 
raw materials such as vegetables, fruits, meat products, aquatic products, and food packaging 
products.
Yum China requires its suppliers to establish effective processes for upstream suppliers’ approval 
and control, to comprehensively identify and effectively control the risks associated with food 
safety of their raw materials. 
Poultry is an important raw material category for Yum China. We invested enormous effort in 
building a holistic control system for the broiler industry, from breeding to slaughtering and 
meat processing. We grade upstream suppliers’ performance through unannounced farm 
inspection and raw material food safety monitoring tests. We have developed an electronic 
farm information system to register and monitor veterinary drugs and Yum China approved 
poultry farm information. 
For fruit and vegetable materials, we are working with our suppliers to build a sustainable 
agricultural eco-system and to drive improvements of farm management system. We require 
farmers and producers to implement systematic control measures, to effectively prevent potential 
food  safety issues starting from the selection of planting locations, safety of soil and water, planting 
techniques, pesticide management, and prudent and responsible use of fertilizer.
In 2018, we took the lead to promote the implementation of Yum China GAP (Good Agricultural 
Practice) in our vegetable bases, and had 100% coverage in our butterhead lettuce bases by the 
end of 2020. We are rolling-out GAP to other vegetable bases.
Supplier 
Assessments
Supplier 
Performance 
Evaluation
Supplier Capability
 Building
Upstream 
Supplier ControlFood Safety 
Sampling and 
InspectionIn 2020, the Quality Assurance function launched live-streaming classes, with over 200 live broadcasts on 12 
major topics throughout the year, covering more than 25,000 employees. The Company also conducts online 
food safety assessments twice a year, with participants exceeding 600,000 restaurant employees count. By 
linking the OEC to the performance of the restaurant management team, we reinforced the implementation of 
food safety responsibilities among restaurant operation team members.Food Safety Live-streaming Classes
Illustration
26 27
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020The Quality Assurance function conducts regular unannounced OEC on all 
restaurants, covering food safety, product quality, and customer service. We also 
conduct regular quality assessments of key menu products and microbiological 
sampling and testing of food utensils, tableware, water, ice, and related products 
to ensure compliance. In 2020, the Quality Assurance function performed over 
16,200 OEC, approximately 3,690 quality assessments on key products, and 
microbiological tests on nearly 71,000 samples. The COVID-19 pandemic dealt a heavy blow to the catering industry in 2020, during which protecting the 
health of both our employees and customers has became our top priority. We drew upon our experience 
to upgrade and implement sanitation and disinfection procedures at our restaurants in accordance to anti-
epidemic guidelines from relevant government and health authorities. Our supply chain management team 
procured personal protection materials such as masks and hands sanitizers globally.
To ensure product quality, we raise suppliers’ awareness of pandemic prevention and improved their incident 
management capability through the use of digital technologies such as cloud video conference, online 
training, and remote management. We also partnered with suppliers to protect food safety, from employee 
health monitoring, adequate stock of mask/sanitizer, equipment and facilities sanitation, to imported cold 
chain material disinfection, nucleic acid testing, regulated warehouse management, and traceability platform 
information disclosure.Logistics Management
With an advanced logistics system, enterprise management team and 
comprehensive distribution network, Yum China has the expertise 
to provide world-class logistics services for restaurants to protect 
food safety. By the end of 2020, we operated 25 logistics centers and 
7 consolidation centers, forming a multi-temperature distribution 
network combining trunk and city distribution with product batch 
traceability from suppliers, logistics centers and restaurants. 
Yum China conducts regular audits and daily inspections of logistics 
service providers (including warehousing and transportation) to 
verify that their food safety and quality management systems meet 
our requirements. In 2020, we conducted about 180 food safety and 
quality audits and over 1,700 daily inspections for warehousing and 
transportation service providers.
Delivery orders are placed through our own platforms and third-party 
aggregators. We use our own dedicated riders to deliver orders exclusively for 
KFC or Pizza Hut stores.  We have a comprehensive delivery management system 
covering product preparation processes, delivery time limits, food protection 
during delivery, and equipment cleaning and maintenance. We also require 
third party service providers to protect food safety by signing the Commitment 
on the Food Safety and Quality Practice of Delivery Food , which provides clear 
requirements for areas including regulatory compliance, personnel management, 
food preparation requirements, and delivery facilities and equipment. Restaurant / Delivery Management
Yum China has established industry-leading processes to ensure that each 
restaurant implements consistent standards for food safety, quality, and 
taste. These processes cover raw material receiving, food and ingredient 
storage, shelf-life management, raw material thawing, cooking, personal 
hygiene, utensil and equipment cleaning and disinfection. During 
business hours, the restaurant duty manager and the area manager check 
the execution of food safety related standard and measures.
Yum China conducts risk assessments at its restaurants every year 
to identify potential food safety and quality risks, and takes effective 
measures to mitigate risks and eliminate hazards. We conduct risk 
assessments for new products, new restaurants layouts, equipment, 
and store operation to ensure compliance with food safety and quality 
requirements.Restaurant Operation 
Management
Restaurant Risk
Control
Delivery Operation 
Management
Audits and Inspections
Taking the Lead to Tackle Public Health Challenges from COVID-19 
Illustration
28 29
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Preventing and Mitigating Risks
As a result of continuous efforts from the government, in-
dustry and society, the overall environment for food safety 
in China has improved considerably in recent years. That 
being said, the large and complex food supply chain means 
that potential risks remain. 
Yum China has developed a unique and advanced food 
safety risk management principle that combines our years 
of management experience with use of technology. We de -
fine control points spanning suppliers, including upstream 
suppliers, logistics centers, restaurants, government inspec -
tion and consumers. We take preventive measures through 
information monitoring, risk identification, risk classification and risk assessment.
By continuously monitoring industry emerging issues, Yum 
China remains vigilant on key challenges, creates supply 
chain management strategies, and identifies opportunities 
for improvement. 
We actively follow national and local food related laws and 
regulations, as well as governing authorities’ actions. After 
due analysis, we develop guidelines for implementation of 
new and updated regulatory requirements within the com-
pany. In 2020, the Food Safety Office followed up regulatory 
moves with over 60 internal notifications, a best practice 
critical to ensure regulatory compliance.Industry Trending Issues
Yum China’s social responsibility includes providing animals with the 
necessary welfare ensuring their healthy growth, promoting sustainable 
development in the agriculture sector, and providing consumers with high-
quality animal protein products.
We have built a collaborative platform comprising industry experts, 
associations, farming and food manufacturers, and subject matter experts 
from upstream and downstream industries to exchange ideas and share 
best practices on animal welfare improvement and management. Based on 
internationally recognized animal welfare principles, the “Five Freedoms” , 
and in compliance with Chinese laws and regulations, we have compiled 
and established a series of Yum China Animal Welfare Policies , incorporating 
national conditions and industry characteristics, and implemented animal 
welfare audits for broiler farming and slaughtering.
Starting in 2016, Yum China studied antimicrobial drug use trend in the domestic broiler 
industry, and took the lead to remove the use of antimicrobial drugs important to human 
medicine as growth-promoting agents in broiler feed. In 2020, in line with the national plan 
to withdraw all forms of growth-promoting drug additives in feed (except traditional Chinese 
medicine) issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, we worked with our domestic 
broiler suppliers to be in full compliance ahead of the required deadline.
Since 2018, Yum China has developed a control program for domestic broiler suppliers to 
gradually reduce the use of other antimicrobial drugs by promoting scientific breeding, 
judicious use of veterinary drugs, and observing optimal intervals between doses. 
Prevention of foodborne illnesses has always been an essential concern for the 
industry. With the release of the Environmental Pathogen Monitoring Standard , 
we guided our suppliers to establish preventive food safety programs, implement 
environmental pathogenic bacteria surveillance plans, verify factories’ hygiene 
operation procedures and effectiveness of preventive controls, and shift the 
focus of hazard analysis from finished product tests to proactive environmental 
monitoring.
The management of food additives used by suppliers is also critical to Yum China. 
Relevant measures include:
·Suppliers must provide documentary evidences that the food additives in their 
products comply with national standards 
·Reminding suppliers of new food laws, regulations, and standards to drive full and 
timely compliance
·Conducting sampling tests on relevant food materials to monitor compliance in 
the use of food additives
Yum China pledges to promote industry development and to constantly explore advanced 
agriculture management techniques with suppliers. We drive the implementation of Yum 
China GAP  (Good Agricultural Practice) in upstream vegetable farms, develop a strict pesticide 
residue monitoring system and conduct regular pesticide residue tests on raw materials to 
ensure compliance with relevant national laws and regulations.
Yum China respects and supports Chinese agricultural development policies and complies with the relevant regulations issued by 
the Chinese government on the safety evaluation, approval, and management of genetically modified agricultural products. We will 
continue to follow new developments in international research on genetically modified organisms and foods, along with relevant 
regulations and standards. We require our suppliers to provide raw materials in compliance with all national regulations.Animal 
Welfare
Veterinary Drug 
Management
Foodborne 
Illnesses
Food Additives
GMOPesticide 
ManagementRisk PreventionRisk Detection
Holistic Value Chain 
Management“Five Freedoms” for Animal Welfare
1. Freedom from hunger, thirst and malnutrition;
2. Freedom from fear and distress;
3. Freedom from physical and thermal discomfort;
4. Freedom from pain, injury and disease; and
5. Freedom to express normal patterns of
     behavior .
30 31
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020We have made significant investment towards building an industry leading intelligent and digitalized supply chain. The use 
of cutting-edge technologies has allowed us to combine traditional control measures such as sampling audit, post audit 
rectification, performance assessments with technology enable real-time data collection and analysis, key processes visibility 
and deviation rectification to improve efficiencies and timeliness of Yum China's food safety management. Technology Enabled Food Safety Management
In 2020, we codified Yum China’s more than 30 years of food safety and quality management experience, and 
integrated internal and external food safety big data to create the iFS. iFS is a scientific and machine learning based 
artificial intelligent tool that can significantly improve our ability to identify and classify potential risks. This system 
uses technologies and algorithms including Knowledge Graph, natural language processing, and named entity 
recognition . The system includes 8 functional modules, with unique capabilities in risk alert and assessments. As an 
illustration, 2 of the key functional modules are:
Risk Alert: This module monitors data including government tests, administrative penalties, media exposure, animal 
pandemics, and changes of laws and regulations on a daily basis. It then classifies relevant data by category, level of 
impact, and cross-reference to our supply chain data to identify potential risk. 
Risk assessments: This module is used in four areas, namely: new suppliers, new products, new / existing suppliers 
with new products, and existing suppliers with existing products. It evaluates risks holistically and generates risk 
assessment reports within seconds with visualizations of risk and related information. 
Real-time product temperature monitor -
ing in the logistics cold chain is crucial 
to guarantee cold chain integrity and 
to reduce energy consumption, which 
has been a persistent challenge for the 
industry.
Yum China logistics has built a complete 
cold chain temperature monitoring 
system, relying on IoT, big data, cloud 
computing, and other cutting-edge 
technologies. From real-time tempera -
ture monitoring in warehouses and 
compressors to real-time temperature IoT cold chain monitoring with complete network coverageeQA
iFSYum China’s eQA enables online management of the entire process from farm to fork, which covers management of 
food safety and quality for upstream suppliers, suppliers, logistics centers, and restaurants on an integrated system. 
eQA is also capable of automatic verification of regulatory compliance for food additives used in raw materials for new 
products. As a data integration platform for food safety and quality management, it significantly improves our ability 
and efficiency to manage suppliers and their products.Online food safety and quality management system
iQA is a key element of Yum China’s vision of building an intelligent end-to-end supply chain that links key production 
data from suppliers' plant to Yum China's system. It divides the production process into seven data modules, defines  
control points within each module, and key data are transmitted to the system in real time during production cycle. 
In doing so, we realize our goal of data interconnectivity and visibility, intelligent real-time data collection, timely 
deviation rectification and efficient traceability of raw material in the value chain.End-to-end digitalized quality management system linking key production dataKG (Knowledge Graph) based food safety risk alert and assessment system
iQA
IoT
monitoring of products in transit and vehicle conditions, our 7x24hr round the clock digitalized cold chain manage -
ment system is actively using technology to safeguard food safety. 
32 33
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Multi-dimensional Product Innovation
Balanced nutrition is becoming an important consideration 
for food consumption. We are committed to offering deli-
cious and nutritious food choices to our customers as well 
as to promote a balanced and healthy diet. In this endeavor, 
we are constantly researching into food innovation, up -
grading our products offerings with recipe changes, using ingredients combination and multiple cooking methods 
and enhancing kids meal nutrition, all while maintaining 
the quality and taste our customers expect.
Product InnovationAbundant Ingredients Upgrading Recipe
Cooking Method Kids Meal
Products for 
Festivals
Product Choices for 
Different Daypart
Disruptive Product 
InnovationExpansion of New 
Product CategoriesNew Flavors for 
Signature Products Great “Value for 
Money” ProductsNew BrandsProducts and Services 
for Delivery
Product Innovation
We have dedicated Food Innovation Team (FIT) to de -
velop new products. Our product innovation processes  
integrate innovation activities from product ideation 
to product launch and market feedback. The innova-
tion processes also consider different elements such as 
ingredients, cooking methods, product specifications, 
and packaging materials.
Based on market feedback, we develop products for different meal categories to enrich our menu choices 
and to constantly update our product offering. From 
breakfast, lunch, and dinner, to afternoon tea and 
take-out, from main dishes, drinks, and desserts, to 
snacks and salads, we cover a variety of dining scenari-
os to meet customers’ needs. We launch limited-time new products throughout the 
year according to seasons and festivals. We improve 
restaurant operation efficiencies with unmanned food 
carts and intelligent pick-up cabinets, combining tech-
nological innovation with daily operation. 
We continue to invest for growth by introducing 
new brands and building new sales channels, and 
to respond to customers’ evolving preferences. We opened the first Lavazza coffee store in China, as well 
as welcoming Huang Ji Huang (a leading simmer-pot 
restaurant brand) into the Yum China family. We also 
launched new categories including K-Coffee retail (e.g. 
concentrated coffee, instant coffee and coffee-tea bev -
erage) and Pizza Hut retail (e.g. frozen ready to cook 
steak). 
34 35
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Upgrading Recipe
While satisfying customers’ desire for great taste and flavor, we proactively explore ways to improve the nutritional value 
of our products. We adhere to “three reductions” principle by reducing the use of salt, sugar, and oil in new products where 
possible. We also conduct repeated sensory tests for salinity, sweetness, and texture to ensure the products’ taste.
For regular products, we conduct sensory tests and adjust the 
ratio of salt, sugar, and oil in our formulas where possible.  
In 2020, Pizza Hut reduced the sugar content of some products. 
For example, removed sugar from Premium Silky Milk Tea. KFC eliminated about 118 tons of salt from 2018 to the end of 2020 
by optimizing ingredient usage in products such as bread. KFC 
also offers non-sweetened milk, sugar-free and fibre-rich Pepsi, 
as well as hot coffee beverages with sugar packs provided upon 
request. Three Reductions
Reduce Salt
 Reduce Sugar
 Reduce Oil
Cooking MethodsIn 2020, Yum China added fruit and vegetable 
ingredients such as strawberry, pineapple, 
enoki mushroom and green soybean, 
with annual fruit and vegetable purchases 
exceeding 55,000 tons, an increase of 5.8% 
from 2019.
We are witnessing an emerging trend on 
plant-based products and are responding 
to customers need in that category. In 2020, 
China KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell launched 
various plant-based products, e.g. plant-
based beef burgers and chicken nuggets for 
KFC, plant-based beef burger for Pizza Hut 
and plant-based beef and pork tacos for Taco 
Bell.
Children’s food nutrition is one of key focuses of the society. 
In 2017, the Chinese Nutrition Society released the Nutrition 
Guidelines for Meals Offered by the Restaurant Industry 
to School-Age Children (the “Guidelines”) . The Guidelines  
specify that children eating out will consume more energy, 
fat, added sugar and sodium but less dietary fiber, vitamins, 
and minerals. To address this issue, the kids meals in KFC 
follow the Guidelines  and use a variety of ingredients such 
as eggs, tomatoes, corn sticks, and milk to offer balanced diet.Abundant Ingredients 
High-quality food can only be made with 
high quality ingredients. We increase the use 
of grains, fruits and vegetables, beans, and 
nuts to create balanced food choices through 
ingredients mix and match.
Kids Meals
We increase choices and nutrition through the application 
of multiple cooking methods, including frying, roasting, 
boiling, sautéing and grilling. By combining modern food technologies with traditional cooking methods, we bring 
premium flavors and most consistent food quality to our 
customers.
36 37
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Actively Promote Industry Development
As a responsible company, Yum China partners with suppliers and relevant stakeholders to promote social governance. Yum 
China follows government's lead to foster social progress by supporting public education of food safety and nutrition. 
Yum China is involved in the sustainable development of 
the food industry through active participation in industry 
associations, bringing our expertise to industry conferences 
and seminars, and sharing our technical and management 
know-how. 
Yum China holds key positions in many influential industry 
organizations such as the Chinese Institute of Food Science 
and Technology, the China Food Information Center, 
China Cuisine Association, China Chain Store & Franchise 
Association, and Shanghai Food Safety Work Federation. We 
collaborate with these associations to promote food safety 
and develop standards. 
In 2020, we shared our experiences and practices in food safety and supply chain risk management adapting to the 
new norm at industry conferences such as the National 
Animal Health and Food Safety Innovation Alliance, China 
International Food Safety and Quality Control Conference, 
and Consumer Goods Forum China Day. 
Yum China also participated in special topic research 
related to food safety, including Food Safety Traceability 
Regulations/Standards Collection and Analysis Report by 
GFSI, and Research Report on the Application of Laws to 
Implement the Main Responsibility of Food Production 
and Business Operators - Research on the Application of 
Article 136 of the <Food Safety Law>  by China Chain Store 
& Franchise Association.Contributing to the Industry
Yum China has joined forces with industry peers to 
provide professional opinions on food-related laws and 
regulations during the public consultation stage. We have 
also participated in the development of relevant industry 
group standards. This includes supporting the China Animal 
Agriculture Association to draft and develop animal welfare 
standards for broilers and egg chickens.In 2020, Yum China participated in providing feedback 
on 15 laws, regulations, and national standards. These 
included food safety-related standards, quality and safety 
supervision-related regulations, and packaging-related 
specifications. We also contributed to eight industry and 
group standards covering areas including green catering, 
delivery and supply chain management.Regulatory and Standard Recommendations
Partnering with Institutions
The China Nutrition Society (CNS)-Yum China Dietary 
Health Foundation is a joint project established by the CNS 
and Yum China. It supports scientific research projects in 
restaurant nutrition and health, focusing mainly on dining 
out and urban resident health. By 2020, the Foundation has 
funded over RMB 19 million for over 80 scientific research 
projects.Based on rigorous assessment and evaluation, the 
Foundation shortlisted seven projects among 50 
applications in 2020, including research projects on menu 
portions and low-sodium processing technologies, to 
promote health and nutrition innovation in the catering 
industry.
38 39
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Environmental issues such as climate change, deforestation, and pollution are growing 
challenges associated with societal development. As the largest restaurant company in 
China, environmental protection is a duty to be resolutely undertaken by Yum China. 
We strive to reduce the environmental impact of our business activities and incorporate 
sustainability into the daily operations of our  restaurants, focusing our effort on climate 
action, water conservation, green building, use of sustainable packaging, waste manage -
ment etc. We collaborate with supply chain partners to pursue a more sustainable business 
model and eventually fulfill our sustainability commitments to the global ecosystem. We 
02
Public 
Awareness & 
EducationSupply Chain 
Environmental 
Impact
Climate ActionSupply Chain 
Environmental 
Impact
Climate ActionClimate 
Action
PackagingClimate Action
Packaging
Food Loss & Waste
Water 
Green BuildingKey Material Topics Across the Value Chain
Our Goals and CommitmentsMedium RelevanceClimate change and extreme weather events have seriously affected socio-economic 
development, human health, migration, food security, and terrestrial and marine ecosystems.
China pledges to have CO2 emissions peak before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 
2060.
According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), over 18 million acres of forests are 
destroyed every year. Sustainable sourcing requires enterprises to mitigate and even eliminate 
environmental impact across the supply chain through better management.
The Opinions on Further Strengthening the Treatment of Plastic Pollution  issued by the 
National Development and Reform Commission and other departments prohibits and limits 
the use of disposable plastic products in various sectors while proposing requirements for 
promoting alternatives, fostering and improving new business models, and enhancing the 
supply of green products.
Climate Action Water
Supply Chain Environmental ImpactReduce average restaurant water 
consumption by an additional 
10% by 2025 as compared to the 
2017 baselineCommit to setting science-based 
emissions reduction targets, in line 
with SBTi criteria  
Reach net-zero value chain GHGs 
emissions by 2050
Only purchase RSPO-certified palm oil
100% of FSC-certified paper packaging by 2025
Drive towards zero-deforestation supply chain High RelevanceSustainability
Background
Contribution
to the SDGs
Customers Upstream Suppliers Suppliers Logistics RestaurantsSustainable Supply Chain Sustainable Restaurants Sustainable Communities
Packaging
30% reduction on non-degradable 
plastic packaging weight by 2025 as 
compared to the 2019 baseline
All customer-facing plastic packaging is 
recyclableGreen Building
All newly built restaurants comply 
with the Yum China Green Building 
Standardstake sustainable actions to address the challenges of climate change 
and make every effort to reduce our supply chain environmental 
impact. We are embarking on an ambitious journey to reach net-
zero value chain GHGs emissions by 2050 and to drive towards zero-
deforestation supply chain to contribute to environmental protection 
and make Yum China more sustainable.
40 41
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Packaging Management: 
Formulate Yum China Packaging 
Strategies  and adhere to our 4R 
principles during packaging design, 
use, and disposal.Promoting Sustainable Packaging with Innovative Green Design
Plastic Reduction: Respond to the national 
plastic ban by reducing the use of non-
degradable plastic products, and replacing 
environmentally unfriendly plastic 
products with degradable ones.Sustainable Agricultural Commodities: Drive towards  zero-deforestation 
supply chain and continue to drive sustainable sourcing of commodities 
including palm oil, soy, cattle and timber.Partnering with Suppliers to Build a Sustainable Upstream EcosystemOur Management ApproachesOur Roadmap
Environmental Management Principles: Developed 
the Yum China Environmental Management 
System  and determined the 4R Principles –
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, and Replace.Honoring Environmental Commitments and Promoting Climate Action
Climate Action: Climate action tops the Sustainability 
Committee’s agenda for active identification, analysis, and 
control of climate-related risks. We are committed to setting 
science-based emissions reduction targets in accordance with 
the Paris Agreement*.
Energy Efficiency 
Management: Set 
energy-saving goals and 
performance KPIs. Use 
energy-saving technology 
and lean management 
processes to improve energy 
efficiency in restaurants, 
logistics, and warehouses.Water Management: 
Analyze the water risks 
across our operational 
locations with World 
Resources Institute (WRI)
tools. Promote the use of 
updated and upgraded 
water-saving equipment in 
our restaurants.Waste Management: 
Explore innovative 
waste reduction 
methods at the point 
of use. Ensure proper 
waste disposal and 
identify recycling 
opportunities.Green Building: Develop
the Yum China Green 
Building Standards, 
integrate green concepts 
into restaurant design 
and minimize the 
environmental impact of 
restaurant construction.Practicing Green Operations to Build Green RestaurantsMaterial Topics Our Directions Progress in 2020
Climate  ActionSet science-based emissions 
reduction targets, analyze and assess 
climate change risks, develop clear 
energy efficiency management 
systems, establish specific 
performance indicators, and track 
carbon footprints.· Preparing for setting science-based GHG emissions 
reduction targets.
· Fulfilled our goal of reducing average restaurant GHG 
emissions by an additional 10% by 2025 as compared to the 
2017 baseline ahead of time.
· Saved approximately 20,400 MWh electricity through the 
use of innovative equipment and energy management 
system.
Water Analyze regional water resource risks, 
promote the application of water-
saving technologies and equipment, 
and strengthen water management.· Use WRI tools to analyze water risks. 
· Installed over 700 dishwashers across the country, saving 0.9 
ton of water  per restaurant per day.
Food Loss & WasteReduce food waste and used cooking 
oil and other waste at the point of 
use, classify waste generated during 
restaurant operations and seek waste 
recycling opportunities.· Installed assorted waste bins in restaurants in 46 key pilot 
cities.
· Piloted Food Bank project in 5 cities.
· Promoted used cooking oil recycling.  Converted 701 tons 
of used cooking oil into biodiesel in Chengdu restaurants.
Green Building Continuously update and promote 
the Yum China Green Building 
Standards.  · All newly built restaurants were in full compliance with the    
Yum China Green Building Standards.
Supply Chain 
Environmental 
Impact Practice the principle of sustainable 
raw material procurement, set a zero-
deforestation target, analyze and 
identify potential environmental 
risks such as deforestation in the 
supply chain, and strengthen the 
management of traceability in the 
upstream supply chain.· 100% of palm oil purchased certified by RSPO.
· Improve soy raw material traceability.
· Set a goal of 100% of FSC-certified paper packaging by 
2025.
PackagingDrive for reduction of disposable 
packaging, and promote the use of 
reusable and eco-friendly packaging 
materials.· Reduced the weight of 50 disposable packaging items, 
saving over 8,000 tons of paper and 1,200 tons of plastic.
· Stopped using non-degradable plastic straws in all Yum 
China restaurants in mainland China.
· Used paper bags or biodegradable plastic bags in 
restaurants in 36 cities.
· 100% of new plastic packaging items used recyclable 
materials.
*The Paris Agreement  is committed to limiting global warming to well below 2, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, compared to pre-
industrial levels.
42 43
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Honoring Environmental Commitments and Promoting Climate Action
Environmental responsibility is deeply integrated into Yum China’s value chain. We drive for a balance between economic 
and ecological benefits and take every effort to minimize environmental impact. In compliance with the Environmental 
Protection Law of the People’s Republic of China , the Opinions on Further Strengthening the Management of Plastic 
Pollution,  and other relevant national laws and regulations, we continuously develop relevant internal policies such as 
the Yum China Environmental Management System . We proactively incorporate 4R Principles and green philosophy into 
our value chain to address global environmental challenges such as climate change.
Sustainability 4R Principles
We are committed to using less energy and natural resources to minimize our environmental footprint. As part of our 
sustainability strategy, we develop and implement the 4R Principles (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, and Replace) to guide initiatives 
across our value chain including raw material sourcing, logistics and warehousing, restaurant operations, and delivery services.
4R Principles and
ActionsReduce energy 
consumption
Reduce water 
consumption
Design 
reusable 
packaging
Reuse 
packaging 
materials in 
warehouses 
and logistics
Apply 
reusable 
decoration 
materials
Use recyclable plastic 
packaging materials
Convert used cooking 
oil into biodieselUse energy-saving 
equipment
Replace plastic 
packaging with 
degradable 
materials 
Purchase 
sustainable palm 
oil
Refuse to purchase 
paper products 
from suppliers that 
knowingly cause 
deforestationReduce materials 
used in packaging
Reduce food loss
Reduce waste 
generationPromoting Climate Action
As the largest restaurant company in China, we promote en-
ergy saving and GHG emissions reduction in our operations, 
and respond to China’s commitment to peaking carbon 
dioxide emissions and achieving carbon neutrality. We are 
committed to supporting the Paris Agreement by setting 
science-based emissions reduction targets and driving for a 
net-zero value chain GHGs emissions target by 2050. 
Climate action is a material topic for Yum China. It is regular -
ly reviewed by the Sustainability Committee and reported to 
the Food Safety and Sustainability Committee of the Board. 
We also include climate-related KPIs in performance evalua-
tions of leadership team members.
In line with the Sustainability Strategy and the 4R Principles, 
we identify potential climate risks and opportunities cover -
ing both low-carbon transition risks and physical risks, with 
reference to the climate risk framework provided by the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
We established a management system with specific perfor -
mance indicators to achieve energy-saving and emissions 
reduction targets and we track progress regularly. We also 
conduct extensive communication, sharing, and coopera-
tion with supply chain partners to promote climate action. 
We include suppliers’ energy saving and emissions reduction performance in our supplier Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) audit assessment criteria. We also encourage suppliers 
to build energy efficiency management systems to track and 
record their energy and resource consumption, and to apply 
energy-saving and emissions reduction technologies and 
facilities. 
On June 8, 2021, we officially announced that we have 
signed and submitted the Business Ambition for 1.5°C Com -
mitment Letter  to the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi). 
We are committed to setting science-based emissions re -
duction targets, demonstrating our commitment to climate 
action and support of the Paris Agreement goal to limit 
global temperature rise to well below 2°C, preferably to 1.5°C , 
compared to pre-industrial levels.
We are in the process of tracking and surveying GHG emis -
sions for our entire value chain covering our own operations, 
upstream, and downstream, to establish a GHG emissions 
inventory in preparation for setting emissions reduction 
targets in line with SBTi criteria. We are striving to achieve 
the 2050 net-zero value chain GHGs emissions commitment 
through technology innovation and management reinforce -
ment. 
Policy and Legal
Technology
Market
Reputation
Acute
ChronicResource Efficiency
Energy Source
Products/Services
Markets
Resilience
Risk Categories DiagramStrategic Planning
Risk ManagementRisks Opportunities
Transition Risks
Physical RisksReplace
RecycleReduce 
Reuse
44 45
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Note: We calculated direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions based on the usage of refrigerant in restaurants according to ASHRAE 2017 
Fundamentals Handbook and IPCC AR5 (2013) . We calculated energy indirect  (Scope 2) emissions based on electricity consumption 
according to Baseline Emission Factors for Regional Power Grids in China 2017 .
We are proud to share that we completed our goal of 
“additional 10% reduction in average restaurant GHG 
emissions by 2025 as compared to the 2017 baseline” ahead 
of time. In the near future, we will follow SBTi criteria to set 
more aggressive science-based emissions reduction targets. 
While driving for energy saving and emissions reduction in our own restaurants, we will start with data tracking and 
management of the GHG emissions in our supply chain to 
establish a complete management system for the entire 
value chain. We are in the process of developing a roadmap 
for GHG emissions reduction to achieve the science-based 
targets.Practicing Green Operations to Build Green Restaurants
Sustainable development is deeply ingrained in our business operations. We explore energy-saving and environmental pro -
tection solutions in all aspects of restaurant design, construction, operations, logistics, and delivery services. Guided by our 4R 
Principles, we drive to reduce our environmental impact and natural resource consumption. 
Energy Efficiency Management
Our strong equipment innovation capability and effective 
management practices help us to reduce energy consump -
tion and GHG emissions in daily operation. This is a compa-ny wide endeavor to achieve our energy-saving targets. We 
assess management team members and Restaurant General 
Managers on their performance against relevant KPIs. 2020
2019
2018
135,615
114,720
106,793
Table: Energy Consumption of Yum China (2018-2020)Table: GHG Emissions of Yum China (2018-2020)
Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions
Unit: tCO2e Unit: tCO2eEnergy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions
1,873,757
1,956,072
1,925,391
2020
2019
2018
2,760,611
2,870,997
2,814,731
Total Electricity Consumption
Unit: MWhAverage Restaurant Electricity Consumption  
Unit: MWh 304
342
358
207
233
245
Average Restaurant Energy Indirect (Scope 2)
GHG Emissions
Unit: tCO2e2020 2019 2018
46 47
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Energy Efficiency - Restaurant Operations
Energy Efficiency - Logistics and WarehousingWe continuously upgrade equipment and facilities in our 
restaurants with advanced technologies for energy saving 
and emissions reduction. In addition to conventional en-
ergy-efficient equipment including kitchen cooking fume 
exhaust control systems, heat pump water heaters, high-ef-
ficiency DC air conditioning systems, and LED lighting, we 
also innovate in digital, automatic, and intelligent restau-
rants for further energy efficiency improvement. 
In 2019, Yum China introduced the VTA* system in newly 
built and remodeled restaurants. The system can monitor 
real-time CO2 intensity and automatically control fresh air volume to reduce air conditioning energy consumption 
while ensuring a comfortable environment. In 2020, the 
system was installed in over 700 restaurants with electricity 
savings of 6,000 MWh.
We also used advanced technologies including IoT, big data, 
and AI to drive additional kitchen efficiency improvement. 
We piloted 20 IoT-based intelligent restaurants in Ha’erbin, 
Shenyang, Wuhan, Hangzhou, and Shenzhen starting in 
February 2020, saving 5% of electricity consumption in each 
restaurant. Plans are in place to roll out this initiative. 
*Value-added Technology ApplicationWe explored opportunities to reduce energy consumption 
and GHG emissions in logistics and warehousing. We devel-
oped the Transport Management System (TMS) to optimize 
the distribution network and route planning throughout 
the country, optimize vehicle loading rates, and shorten de -
livery mileage. We have also explored opportunities to use New Energy Vehicles (NEVs) for refrigerated transportation 
and power our fleets with renewable energy. We have oper -
ated small NEV fleets on a trial basis in Shenzhen and pilot -
ed the use of biodiesel vehicles in Shanghai. In the future, 
we will seek more roll-out opportunities. IoT-based Intelligent Restaurants
Energy efficiency technologies:
Timing on/off for 
lightings by zones Auto intermittent 
operation for fresh air 
systems
Auto air curtain 
intermittent 
operation activated 
by human 
detection sensors
Kitchen equipment auto 
on/off
Air conditioning 
systems with auto 
on/off, auto model 
selection (cooling/
heating/ventilation), 
auto temperature 
setting, and auto air 
velocity setting
Fume exhaust & fresh air 
supply interlocked with 
cooking equipment
Table: Energy Saving Technology
Kitchen cooking fume exhaust
control system
High-efficiency DC air
conditioning systemHeat pump water heater
LED lighting
VTA systemInstallations Electricity Saved(MWh)
~1,700 systems
~5,000
~850 systems
~9,300
~1,000 restaurants
~2,200
~1,300 restaurants
~2,100
~760 restaurants
~6,300
Illustration
48 49
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Waste Management
Restaurant operations inevitably produce different sorts of waste, generating environmental impact. In line with the 4R Prin-
ciples, we are committed to reducing waste at the point of use through technology and management. We respond to the na-
tional call for waste classification and engage our customers and other stakeholders to address waste challenges.
Innovation Projects & InitiativesWater Management
We prioritize our efforts on technology innovation, equipment upgrade, and operation optimization to enhance our water 
management and reduce water usage. In 2020, we applied the water risk mapping tools offered by the World Resources Insti-
tute (WRI) to assess and update water resource risk levels in the areas where our restaurants are located. Based on the assess-
ment results, we prioritized the application of water-saving equipment in water-stressed or water-scarce areas.
Our detailed analysis shows that thawing and daily cleaning account for over 50% of total water consumption. In 2020, we de -
veloped a locally made thawing cabinet to replace traditional running-water thawing. We developed a tailor-made dishwasher 
in our KFC stores to replace manual cleaning. Both projects are proven to improve water efficiency. 
To reduce water consumption for thawing, we developed 
a new thawing cabinet using air circulation instead of 
running water, which delivers safer and faster thawing.
We replaced manual washing with dishwashers in KFC 
restaurants to reduce water consumption. Tests showed 
that the dishwasher saves about 0.9 ton of water daily 
per restaurant. By the end of 2020, we installed over 700 
dishwashers across the country and will roll out in 2021. Thawing Cabinet
Tailor-made Dishwasher
0.9 tonTable: Water Consumption of Yum China (2018-2020)
Total Water Consumption
Unit: tonsAverage Restaurant Water Consumption
Unit: tons
Food Loss
ReduceFood Loss
ReduceFood Loss
ReduceFood Waste
RecycleFood Transportation Food Processing Catering Disposal
Cold Chain
LogisticsInnovative
EquipmentFood Bank Conversion2020
2019
2018
24,579,253
2,710
3,284
3,36227,602,012
26,395,764
Daily water 
savedIllustration
Illustration
50 51
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020We proactively explore opportunities for waste reduc -
tion. We increase the proportion of cold chain trans -
portation to reduce food loss in our logistics. We apply 
AI/big data technology for planning and forecasting. 
We apply smaller fryers to avoid excessive cooking per 
batch and use oil-saving fryers to reduce our cooking 
oil consumption.
We ensure that our waste disposal and management pro -
cesses comply with national and local laws and regulations. 
We enlist qualified third parties to properly dispose res-
taurant waste. We also respond to the government call for 
waste sorting, following the waste sorting policies in 46 pi-lot cities. Our stores are equipped with assorted waste bins 
and we provide sorting guidance for customers. 
We continue to expand our pilot project on used cooking 
oil recycling to cover more restaurants. This project uses 
advanced technology to convert used cooking oil into bio -
diesel. Relevant restaurants are certified by the International 
Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC). 
We also initiated a pilot food bank project in five cities be -
ginning in September 2020, which provides unsold prod-
ucts to neighboring residents in need to reduce food loss. 
Please refer to page 107 for more details.Green Building
We incorporate sustainable development in our restaurant 
design and construction to provide a safe, healthy, and 
comfortable space to our employees and customers.
For restaurant design, we created the Yum China Green 
Building Standards by referring to the Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design (LEED) criteria. We strive to 
build high-standard green buildings using environmentally 
friendly materials, energy-saving facilities, indoor air quality, and thermal comfort control systems. 
We implement various management programs in restaurant 
construction including noise and dust control to minimize 
environmental impact.
In 2020, all of our 1,165 newly built restaurants were 
compliant with the Yum China Green Building Standards.
Yum China 
Green 
Building 
Standards 
Yum China 
Environmental 
Management 
of Construction 
ProcessKitchen equipment noise levels 
meet the national standard
Ergonomics design consideration 
to ensure the comfort of 
employees and customers
LED lamps selected are top-
branded quality products and 
photo-biosafety certifiedAdopt fresh air volume standards 
that meet national requirements 
to ensure indoor air quality 
All material suppliers are the leading 
providers in the industry and the 
selection standards for some materials 
are far superior to national standards
Choose top-branded DC variable 
frequency air conditioners with a 
high degree of comfort
Pilot Project for Converting Used Cooking Oil into Biodiesel 
Our efforts to recycle used cooking oil started 
in 2018. Yum China established a comprehensive 
data recording and tracking system in accordance 
with the ISCC criteria and launched a small-scale 
pilot project in Chengdu to convert used cooking 
oil into biodiesel. In 2020, the project expanded to 
Pizza Hut restaurants in Chengdu. Over 100 KFC and 
50 Pizza Hut restaurants were certified by ISCC. At 
Yum China’s request, three waste oil collection and 
transportation services providers in Chengdu were 
certified by ISCC in August 2020. 
In 2020, the amount of used cooking oil (UCO) 
converted into biodiesel in Chengdu biodiesel 
project was 701 tons.The recycle used cooking oil project not only com -
plies with relevant laws and regulations, but also 
strongly supports the national circular economy 
development strategy. We will continue to promote 
this project nationwide.
701 tons
of used cooking oil  
were converted into 
biodieselLimit the use of noisy equipment 
such as cutting machines and 
compressed air electric pickaxes
Promote the use of pre-
assembled components to reduce 
noise pollution
Limit the work with inevitable 
noise to an enclosed environment 
to prevent noise pollutionInstall insulation prior to 
construction for noise and dust 
control
Carry waste down instead of 
dropping from height
Regulate and publish construction 
time and period to minimize noise 
disturbance to the surroundingsIllustration
52 53
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Partnering with Suppliers to Build a Sustainable Upstream Ecosystem
Forests play an irreplaceable role in slowing global warm-
ing and protecting biodiversity. Yum China complies 
with national laws, supports global forest protection 
initiatives, and identifies and explores opportunities to 
eliminate potential deforestation risks across our supply 
chain. We source our materials responsibly to minimize deforest -
ation risk. We encourage all suppliers to engage in and 
contribute to the sustainable development of agriculture 
and animal husbandry. The Yum China supplier CSR audit 
encourages suppliers to operate sustainably, especially 
with regards to waste and pollutant disposal, to avoid 
negative impact to the environment.
We follow China’s laws and regulations of imported meat prod-
ucts including the List of Registered Meat Products Enterprises 
Exporting to China .
In collaboration with our suppliers, we are in the process of 
analyzing the potential risk in our cattle supply chain.We care about the environmental impact of paper pack -
aging in the sourcing process. We prefer to purchase for -
est-friendly products and refuse to purchase paper products 
from any suppliers that knowingly cause deforestation.
We are aggressively pursuing our goal of using 100% 
FSC-certified paper packaging by 2025.Soy is mainly used as chicken feed and in soy-based food in 
Yum China’s supply chain. We strive to improve traceability 
in the complex soy supply chain to identify risks and in-
crease the transparency of disclosure. 
We are in process of developing soy traceability systems in 
collaboration with our upstream suppliers and leveraging 
best practices from external stakeholders.
All of the soy used to make soy milk powder in our res -
taurants comes from Northeast China. The planting and 
purchase of soy, managed by local farms, is traceable and 
environmentally friendly. We prioritize our efforts to audit   
poultry suppliers on their compliance with the Amazon Soy 
Moratorium  and other international conventions and initia-
tives for tropical forest protection.
100 %
RSPO-certified palm oil100 %
Local soy for soy milk powder100 %
Refuse to purchase paper products 
from suppliers that knowingly cause 
deforestationAs the largest restaurant company in China, we have set 
an ambitious goal to achieve a zero-deforestation supply 
chain. We are exploring opportunities to enhance up -
stream traceability, identifying major agricultural com-
modities from high-risk region, and collaborating with 
supply chain partners to create a sustainable ecosystem. We support sustainable agricultural development and 
take concrete actions to protect the environment, focus-
ing on managing the procurement of agricultural com-
modities including palm oil, soy, cattle and timber.
Palm oil is one of Yum China’s key raw materials for cook -
ing. We commit to only purchasing palm oil that meets the 
eight principles and criteria of the RSPO. This helps us to 
protect natural resources and biodiversity while supporting 
sustainable palm oil production in collaboration with peer 
companies, suppliers, NGOs, and other stakeholders.
We have been a member of the RSPO since 2017. 100% of 
our purchased palm oil was RSPO certified in 2020.Palm Oil Soy Cattle Timber
54 55
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Promoting Sustainable Packaging with Innovative Green Design
Disposable packaging is a common challenge to the 
restaurant industry. Yum China complies with the national 
and local regulations on the use of packaging. Guided by 4R 
Principles and Yum China Packaging Strategy , we continue 
to explore sustainable packaging solutions to minimize the 
environmental impact caused by disposable packaging 
usage. In addition, we collaborate with our suppliers to 
develope eco-friendly packaging materials, striving for a 
sustainable packaging supply chain.
We apply new packaging solutions, new materials, and 
new technology to reduce the use of disposable pack -
aging. By the end of 2020, annual saving of over 8,000 
tons of paper and 1,200 tons of plastics were delivered 
through over 50 packaging weight reduction projects.
We began our Reusable Serving Basket program in KFC 
restaurants in 2019, replacing over 10 disposable packag -
ing materials. In 2020, the project expand further with 5 
new products covered. Green Design100 % 
Of customer-facing plastic 
based packaging is recyclable
100 %
Of paper packaging will be 
FSC-certified by 2025 
30 %
Reduction on non-degradable 
plastic packaging weight by 
2025 compared to the 2019 
baseline
We adopt a cradle-to-cradle philosophy, following national 
waste sorting policies to properly dispose of our packaging 
waste. We are also partnering with our packaging material 
suppliers to develop pilot projects for waste packaging ma-
terial recycling, contributing to the circular economy.Yum China is deeply concerned about the environmental 
impacts of non-degradable plastics and attempts to reduce 
plastic usage from various perspectives.
Yum China has launched a series of plastic reduction and 
environmentally friendly packaging initiatives across 
its brands in line with the latest regulations in China, 
including to the Opinions on Further Strengthening the Management of Plastic Pollution . This includes replacing 
existing plastic packaging with paper straws, paper bags, 
and biodegradable plastic bags for all brands in Yum 
China in 2020. As a result of these initiatives, Yum China 
expects a reduction of approximately 8,000 tons of non-
biodegradable plastics annually starting from 2021, as 
compared to the 2019 baseline .
Green Waste DisposalAddressing Plastic Pollution
Multiple approaches are in place to reduce disposable pack -
aging in our operations. Since 2017, we have offered cus-
tomers the option to omit the use of disposable cutlery for 
their orders in the KFC Super App. In 2019, nearly 400 KFC 
restaurants in Shenzhen, Zhuhai, and Hainan took the lead 
to pilot the on-request-only provision of disposable cup lids 
and straws to reduce plastic use. Yum China logistics centers 
also introduced reusable straps to reduce the use of plastic 
stretch films and avoid plastic waste.Sustainable Use
These new plastic reduction initiatives will strengthen our sustainability strategies and deliver positive change to 
society through packaging innovation and reduction. Yum China will continue to work together with stakeholders 
across the value chain to promote social, environmental, and economic development and drive a more sustainable 
future.
——Joey Wat, CEO of Yum ChinaKFC Launched A ‘Be Natural, Be Y ou’ Sustainability Campaign
In December 2020, KFC China launched a ‘Be Natural, Be You’ sustainability campaign to enhance consumers' 
awareness of environmental protection and encourage more sustainable lifestyles, including reducing the use of 
disposable plastic packaging and better waste sorting.
KFC responded to the national plastic ban by launching a range of plastic packaging reduction initiatives nationwide 
since 2020. By the end of 2020, all KFC restaurants in China had stopped using plastic straws and over 90% of KFC 
restaurants had replaced disposable plastic cutlery with wooden cutlery for dine-in and takeaway. Over 50% of 
KFC restaurants had replaced non-biodegradable plastic bags used for delivery and takeaway with paper bags or 
biodegradable plastic bags. By the end of 2025, all KFC restaurants will phase out non-biodegradable plastic bags and 
cutlery in China.
Illustration
56 57
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020"People First" has always been Yum China’s philosophy since entering the Chinese 
market over 30 years ago. Fulfilling the needs of our key stakeholders, including our 
employees, customers, suppliers and the general public, have always been at the top 
of our management agenda. We aim to provide our employees with a high-quality and 
fair platform for them to grow. We also hope to provide our customers with delightful 
services with a “Customer Mania” mindset. 
We work with suppliers to build a responsible supply chain 
together and to promote development of the industry.
03Sustainability 
Background
Information Security 
and Data Privacy
Customer Relationship 
ManagementSupply Chain 
Social ImpactSupply Chain 
Social Impact
Occupational 
Health and 
SafetyOccupational 
Health and Safety
Human Rights and 
Labor Practice
Employee Training 
and DevelopmentDiversity and Equal 
Opportunity
Employee Training 
and Development
Occupational Health 
and Safety
Human Rights and 
Labor PracticeKey Material Topics Across the Value Chain
Our Goals and CommitmentsHigh Relevance· Investors are interested in talent engagement,  development and retention strategy of the 
company they invest in, which is a critical success factor for the company’s long-term sustain-
able success. 
· The pandemic has necessitated traditional business to adopt a digitalized operating model 
which will enhance a company’s capability in managing systemic risks and build organiza-
tional resilience.
· The 2020 White Paper on Chinese Restaurant Brand Power  highlighted irreversible trend that 
successful restaurant companies will shift to customer experience orientation from product 
and service orientation. They must leverage science and technology as an enabler to deliver 
best in class customer experience. 
Contribution
to the SDGs
Diversity and Equal Opportunity Supply Chain Social Impact
At least 50% of our employees are female.
At least 50% of all employees who are hired, trained, 
promoted and retained are female.
Over 1.5% of full-time jobs is offered to people with 
disabilities.All critical suppliers are subject to CSR 
review.Medium Relevance
Sustainable Supply Chain Sustainable Restaurants Sustainable Communities
Customers Upstream Suppliers Suppliers Logistics Restaurants
58 59
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Material Topics Our Directions Progress in 2020
Diversity and Equal 
OpportunityStrive to eliminate inequality and 
enable every employee to realize 
their value within our company, 
regardless of race, religion, color, 
age, gender or gender identity, 
disability, military or veteran status, 
sexual orientation, citizenship, or 
nationality.· We signed the United Nations WEPs.
· We were selected for the Bloomberg Gender-Equality 
Index (GEI) for the third consecutive year.
· 64% of our workforce is female and 54% of top 
management is female
· We operate 24 Angel Restaurants in 23 cities.
· We provided jobs for over 2,100 employees with 
disabilities.
Employee Training 
and DevelopmentMaximize employees’ potential 
and cultivate talent by creating 
a structured, transparent and 
accelerated career path.· We were certified as a Top Employer China for the third 
consecutive year by the Top Employers Institute.
· The average Monthly Active User (MAU) rate of the in-
house mobile learning platform reached 84%.
· We delivered more than 8.6 million hours of training. 
· Nearly 100% of operations positions are promoted from 
within. 
· We promoted 36% of our restaurant management teams.
Occupational Health 
and SafetyYum China adheres to the "Safety 
Mania" concept, and abides by 
laws and regulations on safety and 
health such as the Labor Law and 
Law on Prevention and Control of 
Occupational Diseases to provide 
employees with a safe and healthy 
working environment.· Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) per million hours 
worked was 1.34 in 2020.
· No major risks of occupational diseases.
· 100% of employees had a health certificate.
· We provided 100% coverage of medical examination for 
management and office staff.
· We adopted contactless workflow with upgraded 
epidemic prevention and control measures.
Human Rights &
 Labor PracticeProtect employees’ rights and 
interests based on compliance with 
international conventions as well 
as national laws and regulations. 
Strictly prohibit the use of child 
labor or forced labor and establish 
channels for employees' complaints.· We strictly prohibited the use of child labor and protected 
minors’ rights. 
· We signed labor contracts with all full-time employees 
with five social insurance and one housing fund paid, 
ensuring equal pay for equal work.
· 100% of employees attended the compulsory training on 
the Yum China Code of Conduct.
Information Security 
and Data PrivacyProtect the legitimate rights and 
interests of Yum China and personal 
information in accordance with 
relevant laws and regulations, and 
reduce the risks to data security.· Our information security management system has 
achieved ISO/IBC 27001:2013 certification since 2018. 
· The KFC App and official website system complies with all
  the Ministry of Public Security’s classified protection of 
information system.
· We upgraded the Information Security Management 
Platform (Zeus Platform) to version 2.0.
Customer 
Relationship 
ManagementAlways pursue 100% customer 
satisfaction and constantly improve 
service quality for customers.· On a five point rating scale on overall dining experience, 
86.9% and 88.2% of KFC and Pizza Hut customers 
respectively gave a top score of 5.  
· Launched the contactless delivery service and contactless 
order and takeaway service during the pandemic 
Supply Chain Social 
ImpactDrive responsible sourcing and 
collaborate with business partners 
to build a responsible supply chain.· 100% of suppliers signed the Yum China Supplier Code of 
Conduct. 
· About 400 suppliers completed CSR audits, including 
100% of critical suppliers. 
· 100% of suppliers submitted correction and prevention 
action plans after the CSR audits.Upholding Fairness and Impartiality to Protect 
Employees’ Rights and Interests: 
We abide by the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights and other international conventions 
signed by the Chinese government to protect 
the legitimate rights and interests of employees. 
Guided by the idea of fairness and justice, we 
provide protection for employees' rights and 
interests, prohibit forced labor and other human 
rights violations. 
Diversity, Inclusion and Equal opportunities: 
A diversified workforce is fundamental to achieve 
corporate vision and value. We are committed 
to fostering a working environment that is 
professional, inclusive, and non-discriminatory, 
and providing fair opportunity for employees to 
realize their potential.
Empathetic listening and timely 
response: We collect customer 
opinions via the Guest Experience 
Survey (GES) system and have 
built the Customer Service 
Platform (CSP) for customers to 
file complaints, ensuring a timely 
response .
Implementing Responsible 
Sourcing: We continuously 
improve our supplier management. 
Suppliers are required to sign the 
Supplier Code of Conduct . We also 
implement effective measures for 
managing and reviewing their CSR.Performance incentives for shared 
success: We provide employees 
with equitable and competitive 
remuneration and benefits, help 
them lighten financial burdens, and 
offer them a chance to share our 
success with stock incentive plans.Efficient and transparent two-
way communications: We believe 
that the more you know, the more 
you care. We constantly expand 
two-way communication channels 
with employees to understand their 
expectations and concerns. 
Ensuring information security 
and privacy protection:  By 
improving our management of 
data security, we protect the 
personal information and privacy 
of customers.
Local Sourcing: Yum China sticks 
to local sourcing through open and 
honest communication and win-win 
cooperation.Caring for employees’ health and 
safety: We abide by relevant laws and 
regulations while providing employees 
with a healthy and safe workplace. For 
example, we offer enhanced insurance 
coverage and counseling program 
for employees during the COVID-19 
pandemic to protect their physical and 
mental wellbeing.
Experience improvement with digital 
empowerment: We have built a digital 
ecosystem to provide customers with 
digital experiences in intelligent marketing, 
supply chains, restaurants, and customer 
services.
Supplier CSR Audits: We have upgraded 
the CSR audit framework by adding 
evaluation criteria. We require suppliers to 
submit detailed correction and prevention 
action plans, which we review along with a 
third party auditor. Inspiring potential for 
accelerated growth: We drive 
innovation through our employee 
training system to develop the 
best talent in the industry and 
create structured, transparent and 
accelerated career path.The Power of An Innovative Pioneer in the Industry
Implementing Responsible Sourcing"Customer Mania" ServicesOur Management ApproachesOur Roadmap
60 61
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Indicators 2020
Total number of employees 400,000+
Number of employees by type of 
employmentFull-time 34 %
Part-time 66 %
Number of employees by genderMale 36 %
Female 64 %
Number of employees by age groupUnder 30 60 %
31-40 23 %
41-50 15 %
Over 50 2 %
Employee turnover rateRestaurant General 
Managers (RGMs)9.2 %Our unique culture and structured talent development form our core competitive capabilities, enabling us to lead the future 
of the industry. Our culture of Founder’s Mentality sets a strong foundation for achieving our collective vision of becoming “The 
World’s Most Innovative Pioneer in the Restaurant Industry” . 
The unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic presented huge challenge to any company and it became a real time test to its 
organization agility. During the onset of the pandemic, Yum China swiftly determined that the health and safety of our 
employees and customers is the number one priority. This guiding principle generated organization momentum in all action 
planning in not only combatting the crisis, but also identifying opportunities to serve the customers and the community 
safely. 
Yum China fully embraces the “People First” philosophy. We strive to provide our 400,000+ employees with a safe and inclusive 
working environment that supports our "Fair, Care and Pride" principle. For our employees, we offer systematic training and 
development, competitive remuneration and benefits, and a platform for them to fully realize their potential, enabling their 
personal growth together with the company. 
In 2021, Yum China was certified as a Top Employer China for the third consecutive year by the Top Employer Institute. This 
underscores our firm commitment to care for the health and livelihood of employees during the pandemic.Accelerating Employee Growth to Achieve Company Vision
Ensuring Fair Protection of Employees' Legitimate Rights and Interests
At Yum China, we comply with the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights  and other international conventions 
concerning the protection of the legitimate rights and 
interests of employees signed by the Chinese government, 
and abide by the national labor law. We also created the 
Yum China Code of Conduct , which serves as a guide on 
how we should run the business and how our employees 
should act. The annual compulsory compliance training 
keeps all employees refreshed with the latest version of the 
Code.
Guided by our principle of “Fair, Care and Pride” , we ensure 
employees’  legal rights are well protected, including proper 
labor contracts, all legally required social insurance and 
housing funds, and equal pay for equal work.We adopt strict policies and prohibit any harassment based 
on gender, race, nationality, religion and other factors, 
including any slander, prejudicial jokes, intimidation, or 
any other verbal or physical attacks on others based on 
race, religion, or country of origin. We also prohibit sexual 
harassment including unwelcome sexual provocation 
or other sexual verbal or physical acts. Employees can 
anonymously report such issues if they choose to. We 
prevent retaliation against honest reporting to make sure 
that whistleblowers are well protected.
We firmly prohibit any kind of child labor or forced labor. 
Employee working hours are set in accordance with 
national regulations and any overtime work shall be agreed 
to by the employees themselves and approved by the head 
of department in advance.Workforce diversity is a critical foundation for a company to realize its vision and values. We strive to foster a professional, 
inclusive, and non-discriminatory working environment for our 400,000+ employees. We understand, appreciate and 
encourage diversity and provide equal opportunities for all. Every employee, regardless of their race, religion, color, age, 
gender or gender identity, disability, military or veteran status, sexual orientation, citizenship, or nationality, can realize 
personal value on our diversified platform.
Promoting Gender Equality
Gender equality is a key part of diversity and inclusiveness. 
We are committed to gender equality by providing fair 
recruitment, training and promotion opportunities for all 
employees. We provide equal development opportunities 
for female employees and offer a series of programs to 
enhance their capabilities. We also provide legal benefits 
and care during pregnancy and breastfeeding for female 
employees to create a supportive work environment. These 
benefits include breastfeeding rooms, maternity leave 
of at least 98 days, postpartum breastfeeding leave, and 
paternity leave of at least 7 days.By the end of 2020, we employed over 260,000 women, 
representing 64% of our total workforce. The Company 
continues to make progress in nurturing talented leaders 
across all management levels. By the end of 2020, women 
holding director and above positions represented 54% 
of the senior management workforce. In 2019, we signed 
the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles 
(WEPs). In 2020, our Mom Restaurants for Little Migratory 
Birds program won us the WEPs Community and Industry 
Participation award and we were included in the Bloomberg 
Gender-Equality Index for the third consecutive year.Diversity and Equal Opportunity for Employees' Self-Actualization
Share of female 
employees
Total workforce
All management positions
Junior management positions
Top management positions
Management positions in revenue 
generating functions
STEM-related positions
New hire
Promotion
Turnover
Mean gender pay gap between men 
and women employeesMedian gender pay gap between 
men and women employees
2020
64%
60%
61%
54%
61%
15%
59%
62%
56%
<3 % <3 %
62 63
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Creating an Inclusive Workplace for People with Disabilities
Yum China strives to create a barrier-free and inclusive workplace for people with disabilities with the necessary employment 
support. We offer over 1.5% of our committed full-time jobs to people with disabilities. In 2020, we employed over 2,100 
members of this community.Yum China included in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI) for Three 
Consecutive Y ears
On January 28, 2021, Yum China announced that it 
had been included in the Bloomberg Gender-Equal-
ity Index (GEI) for a third consecutive year, the only 
one from mainland China. The index honors enter -
prises that are working to improve transparency in 
gender reporting and promote equality for women. 
In 2021, 380 companies in 11 industries from 44 countries and regions were subject to selection. 
Thanks to our excellent performance in female 
leadership and talent cultivation, equal pay, gender 
balance, and policies against sexual harassment, our 
GEI scores are much higher than the average.
Setting up “Mom Restaurants for Little Migratory Birds” to Provide Employment 
Opportunities for Working Mothers
As China enters the age of mobility, caring for children that are left behind in 
rural areas by their parents who moved to work in the cities has become a social 
issue. The children are referred to “little migratory birds” as they must constantly 
travel between rural and urban areas. KFC launched the first “ Mom Restaurants 
for Little Migratory Birds” in Chongqing in March 2017 to enable their mothers 
to return to their hometown to work and spend more time with their kids.
The program was expanded to over 480 KFC restaurants in Hubei, Henan and 
Hunan provinces and Chongqing Municipality. It provided employment op -
portunities for mothers who had been away from their children and aspired 
to come back. The complete welfare and flexible working schedules that we 
provided enabled them to strike a good balance between work and family. The 
program won the WEPs Community and Industry Participation award in 2020.
Promoting the Angel Restaurant and Building a Diverse Workplace
Through the Angel Restaurant model piloted 
in Shenzhen in 2012, KFC provides constant 
employment opportunities for youths with 
disabilities nationwide with suitably equipped 
restaurant facilities and improved management 
models. By offering them the inclusive opportunity 
to work alongside those without disabilities and 
serving all customers, we provide them with the 
chance to integrate themselves into society.
23 24 200+ 2,100+
Employees with disabilities of an Angel Restaurant in Houbin Delivering Free Meals for Medical Professionals in 
Zhongshan Hospital of Xiamen University During the Pandemic Support for people with disabilities
Number 
of Angel 
RestaurantsNumber of cities 
with Angel 
RestaurantsNumber of people with 
disabilities employed in 
Angel RestaurantsNumber of people 
with disabilities 
gained employment 
support
2020As of 2020, we had opened 24 Angel Restaurants in 
23 cities in Guangdong, Fujian, Hunan, Hubei, Jiangsu, 
Shaanxi, Liaoning and other provinces, providing jobs 
for over 200 young people with disabilities each year. 
This model has earned Yum China recognition across 
the country.Illustration
IllustrationIllustration
64 65
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Yum China invests in every step of our employees' growth and improving their capabilities is a priority for us. We constantly 
stretch their potential for accelerated growth and cultivate them into top talent in the industry through our innovative and 
systematic training system, which is a key cornerstone for the company's continuous growth.Unlocking Talent Potential through Innovative Training Systems
8,600,000
hours
Total training and development hours42
hours
Average hours per Full-time Equivalent (FTE) on 
training and development2020
Promotion rate
36 %
Promotion rate 
for restaurant 
management team8%
Promotion rate for 
office employees Amount spent  on training and development
Training and development hours
Number of employees trained by type of employment266,000,000
RMB 
Total expense on training and 
development1,308
RMB 
Average expense per Full-time Equivalent 
(FTE) on training and development
Employees participating in training by 
gender
36 %
Male64 %
Female Accelerating Training and Development Programs to Build Talent Pipeline
We have a best-in-class talent training system designed to build an accelerated, structured, fair and transparent career 
promotion path for every employee. We develop clear training and development plans for each of them on their first day at 
work. For example, KFC Business School and Pizza Hut Management Institute can help a new employee grow from a restaurant 
management trainee to a Restaurant General Manager (RGM) in as short as 18 months. These development plans serve as 
solid foundations for their future success in the food service industry.
KFC Business School
KFC follows a mission of building an outstanding and high-caliber operations team to implement the Brand's strategies. KFC 
Business School supports this mission with three core training systems:
KFC Preparatory 
CoursesProgram for Training 
Professionals in the 
Restaurant IndustryProgram for 
Training Leaders 
for Retail BusinessThe courses are designed for 
university students, allowing 
them to gain individualized 
training in their spare time. 
This enables them to obtain 
a higher salary starting point 
and a faster promotion path.The program helps restau-
rant management trainees to 
grow into competent RGMs 
by providing them with di-
versified and digital training 
modules.The program is designed 
to  train high-caliber talent, 
enabling them to become 
all-rounded business leaders 
with rich know-how across 
functions and industries.
KFC Business School leverages technology to establish an intelligent and effective training cycle for crew members.
Intelligent Service Team Training Cycle
First-day introduction
Real-time activation
Tracking training resultsWorkstation learning Verification of training
VR+ Video + Quiz
Start the training schedule
Scheduling workScenario training
 - watching and PracticingWork independently
(unified standards, with training hours reduced)
(at the first moment)
CMS136,000 Person
Full-time 270,000 Person
Part-time New
employee
66 67
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Live training on new products Short-video training on services Training on promoting new business
Participants
5,000+Participants  
230,000 +Participants  
16,900 +
Pizza Hut Management Institute
In 2020, we upgraded Pizza Hut Management Institute’s courses and modules and established a new training system in 
Yum China.
Online courses during the pandemic
1,151
  Yum China Training System  Executives
Middle 
Management
Frontline 
Supervisors 
Individual 
Contributors
Brand 
Operation 
Training
Restaurant 
Management 
TeamThe executive training program enhances executives' ability to understand the macro economy 
and organizational leadership. This enables them to create strategies that drive the sustainable 
development of the company.
The Mini-MBA program strengthens and fosters mid-level management’s innovativeness and 
leadership, making them better managers.
The mentoring program provides personal productivity and leadership training for high-
performing employees and frontline managers to ensure successful transition to management 
positions.
The District Manager Designation (DMD) development program provides job skills training for 
mid-level operations leaders to help grow their core capabilities.
Through the KFC Business School and Pizza Hut Management Institute, a new restaurant 
management trainee can become a restaurant manager in as short as 18 months.
  Development Path for Supply Chain Management Trainees Digitally-powered Training Platform to Enable Agile Learning
Career Journey for Fresh GraduatesCOVID-19 disrupted the face-to-face training of employees. In response to this, Yum China launched the upgraded mobile 
learning platform in 2020. The platform, enabling modular learning on both computer and mobile phone, equips employees 
with the knowledge and skills needed in the digital era for their sustainable career development. 
The platform, aimed to be built into a learning ecosystem within the company, has seen its Monthly Active User (MAU) rate 
hitting 84% to date. The high receptiveness is attributed to not only the rich choices of external and internal courses, but also 
its multiple functions such as online examination, learning maps, gamified contest and interactive communication.
Yum China’s Management Trainee Program provides marketing and supply chain management trainees with a rapid and 
tailored growth path that lasts for two to three years. It offers them learning opportunities through job rotations and targeted 
training, through which they can quickly understand the business and become industry-leading professionals.
  Development Path for Marketing Management Trainees 
1st Month
Entering the 
Workplace
Understanding Yum 
China
Experiencing corporate 
culture
Executive mentoringUnderstanding the 
department
Diving deep in various 
positions in the 
departmentHaving an overall 
understanding of the 
supply chain
Deep understanding 
Yum China’s different 
brandsCompleting challenging 
assignment
Deeply involved in 
projects1st Y ear 3rd Y ear
Building  Employability and Innovation Capability in Three Y ears2nd Y ear
Building Employability and Game Changing Value in Two Y ears1st MonthEmployability
Enhancement
New Recruit ->
Junior EmployeeEntering the Workforce
Understanding Yum China 
and experiencing corporate 
culture
Executive mentoring and 
experts sharing industrial 
insights1st Y ear 2nd Y ear
During the pandemic, two-thirds of the courses were held online Rotating within the 
DepartmentCross-department 
RotationsFurther Learning in 
Professional Areas
Professional 
EnhancementLeadership
Skills
Junior Employee -> 
Professional MarketerProfessional Marketer-
>Junior ManagerCross-brand/function 
RotationsFurther Learning in Professional 
Areas
Experiencing the strategies 
and processes of core and 
new brands.
Experience in traditional and 
cutting-edge marketing posts 
in products and digitalDeeply involved in product/
digital projects
Completing challenging 
assignment
Improving leadershipemployees participated in online 
management courses
68 69
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Customized on-the-job 
college courses
100% online teaching and 
online examinationA nationally recognized 
post-secondary 
or bachelor’s degreeTuition subsidies, 
scholarships and interest-
free loans for employees 
in needContinuous Education for Sustainable Career Development
We encourage employees to further their education and upgrade their professional skills. In cooperation with the Open 
University of China, Yum China launched the YUMC College program, which introduces a new corporate -university 
cooperation model combining academic education with vocational training. 
The YUMC College program offers employees continuous education opportunities to obtain a nationally recognized post-
secondary or bachelor’s degree, which ultimately improves their employability. By the end of 2020, the program had been 
rolled out in cities including Zhengzhou, Fuzhou, Beijing, Suzhou, Nanjing, Wuxi, Xi’an, Tianjin, Guangzhou, Changsha, Harbin, 
Qingdao, Wuhan, Shenzhen, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Chengdu, and Shenyang with thousands of employees participating.
Continous Education Program 
Launch Continuous Education Program in Henan Province to Support
Employee All-Round Advancement
In September 2020, Yum China launched the Con-
tinous Education Program in Henan Province in 
cooperation with Henan Provincial Radio and Televi-
sion University of the Open University of China.
The program combined restaurant job training with 
academic education and vocational training to im-
prove all-around vocational skills while developing 
employees’ learning and innovation capabilities. 
Participants can graduate after completing all re -
quired credits, and they will also receive a bachelor’s 
degree recognized by the Ministry of Education of 
PRC. The customized courses were well received 
by the employees in Henan. In 2020, 148 qualified 
employees were admitted for training under this 
corporate-university  cooperation model.
  Career Development Path for Restaurant Management Team 
Establish Yum China’s People Planning Process to Facilitate the Growth of 
Employees 
We value the growth of our employees. Our People Planning Process (PPP) enables employees to improve 
their competencies in addition to completing the key objectives of the company/department/team. We 
prepare employees not just for fulfilling current job requirements, but also for more challenging expanded job 
responsibilities in the future.
We review our people planning from different perspectives to identify critical talent and review their 
development progress. We formulate specific follow-up plans and provide a mechanism for sustainable talent 
development.
Help employees set individual goals and targets according to the business goals of the Company and functions.Target setting
360o feedback
Formulate a specific development goal, based 
on feedback from all channels to create practical 
development plans.
Provide an objective and fair evaluation of employees' 
performance, facilitate timely performance feedback, 
and coaching. Provide employees with practical and 
continuous learning and growth opportunities. Individual development plan
Performance apprasialOffer employees the opportunity to gain comprehensive, and 
constructive feedback.
Management Trainee
Employee 
Employability Employee -
Own your development
People manager -
Coach to succeedOrganizations -
Providing 
resources and 
opportunitiesTarget settingPerformance review
Personal development planningEmbarking on the Fast Track for Boundaryless Career
Yum China’s rapid growth has created extensive career 
development possibilities for employees. We assist 
employees at various levels in planning their career 
development paths. We offer every employee the 
opportunities to develop and advance in their own 
professional area and become an industry expert. They can 
also choose rotation within or outside of their function to 
broaden their career development.We strive to empower employees to realize their full 
potential by providing development tools that clarify their 
personal development needs. The tools include People 
Planning Review, mentoring, job rotations, bench designate 
programs and mini-MBA.
We adopt policies to ensure that almost all employees in 
operating positions can be promoted. Last year, about 36% 
of the restaurant management team was promoted.
People Planning Review
Personal Development PlanningAssistant Manager Senior Deputy Manager Restaurant General Manager
IllustrationIllustration
70 71
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Yum China is committed to reducing employees’ burden 
in taking care of their family especially in crises such 
as COVID-19. We launched the “Family Care Fund for 
Restaurant Management Team (RMT)” to provide RMT 
members with additional protection for their family 
including critical illness insurance coverage for their 
parents and accident insurance coverage for their spouse 
and children on top of the existing commercial insurance. 
Yum China has enhanced the coverage above the industry 
standard terms. The age limit for coverage for parents 
and children was extended to 75 and 22 respectively. 
In December 2020, we expanded this project to cover 
restaurant crew team leaders, providing them with 
critical illness insurance. By the end of 2020, the fund had 
benefited more than 20,000 employees in the restaurant  
team and 40,000 family members.We provided employees with higher medical insurance coverage during the pandemic in 2020. Our 
employees voluntarily established the Employee Assistance Fund. Members of the board of directors and 
senior executives also voluntarily donated 10% of their base salary to support frontline employees and their 
families affected by the pandemic and to help fund emergency assistance for them in the future.
Upgrading Family Care for Restaurant Management TeamThree-Y ear Care Program for RGMs
We provide our RGMs with the Three-Year Care Program, 
a highly competitive program in the industry. RGMs who 
have completed one year in the role will receive one-time 
YUMC restricted stock unit (RSU) valued at US$2,000. In the 
second year, they can enroll in the Family Care Program, which provides additional critical illness coverage for their 
parents and additional accident coverage for their children 
and spouse. Those with a three-year tenure in the role can 
apply for Supplementary Housing Subsidies, which provides 
interest-free loans for repaying mortgages.
Protecting employee health and safety is a top priority at Yum China. We abide by relevant labor laws and regulations by 
providing full-time employees with pension insurance, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, work injury insurance, 
and maternity insurance. We also provide part-time employees with employer’s liability insurance.
Sharing Company Success through Competitive Rewards
Yum China follows the principle of pay-for-performance 
and equal pay for equal work. We provide every employee 
with fair and competitive remuneration and benefits, 
recognizing and rewarding their hard work and outstanding 
performance. We also regularly increase our investment 
in protecting employees’ health and their families against 
unfortunate events. 
We promote Founder's Mentality and share the Company’s 
success with employees through equity incentive plans 
such as the CEO Grant Award and Restaurant General 
Manager (RGM) Restricted Stock Unit. 
After becoming an independent listed company in 2016, 
Yum China announced that it would award RSUs valued at US$2,000 to every qualified RGM. The first batch of RSUs 
were granted in February 2017, allowing the recipients to 
participate in the growth of the company as our stock price 
increased from the grant date to the end of 2020. By the 
end of 2020, the scheme covered 9,700 RGMs. Following 
our secondary listing in Hong Kong, we began to award 
additional RSUs to all eligible RGMs. The first batch of 3,500 
RGMS received an additional RSUs valued at US$3,000 on 
top of the original $2,000 RSUs. This also exemplifies our 
RGM No.1 culture. Our belief is RGM is the most important 
leadership role within Yum China and competent and 
engaged RGMs are key contributors to the Company’s long-
term success.
By the end of 2020, the fund
20,000+
40,000+Y ear 1
Becoming a 
shareholder of the 
Company with granted 
restricted stock unitsY ear 2
RGM Family Care 
Program extending 
care to RGMs’ family 
membersY ear 3
Supplementary 
Housing Subsidies 
Scheme
Flexible Benefits for Office Employees
We rolled out flexible benefit scheme for office employees as part of our reward strategy, allowing them to vary their benefits 
package in order to satisfy their personal requirements. With the scheme, employees have the choice to vary the levels of 
benefits within their allowance, including family medical insurance, medical examination and recreational activities. Office 
employees are also provided with housing subsidy scheme.
“The Family Care Fund is designed to provide the management team with the help they need. In Yum China, 
over 90% of the members of our management team were born in the 80s and 90s. They are the breadwinner of 
their family, backbones of our company, and the core group of the society. We hope that every employee can 
become a pioneer in the industry with an utmost sense of pride, and work with the company to grow as well as 
share our success. ”
——Aiken Yuen, Chief People Officer of Yum China
had benefited employees
had benefited employees' family membersIn December 2020, our Family Care Fund Program was selected from 78 entries as 2021 Best Total Rewards 
Innovation Plan.
72 73
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Having creating the “Safety Mania” concept, Yum China 
abides by laws and regulations on employee health and 
safety to provide them with a healthy and safe working 
environment. We design, build, maintain and operate 
facilities that protect employees and physical assets. To 
heighten employees’ awareness in safety, we not only 
implement stringent management and inspection, but also 
strengthen risk and compliance management as well as 
building a safety culture. 
We provide employees with protective equipment and 
measures. Through regular inspection and workplace safety 
audit to ensure our employee follow the safety standards, 
we not only upgrade their protective equipment, but also conduct regular employee training on correct equipment 
operating procedures and related safety precautions. Our 
certification and subsequent analysis did not reveal major 
risk of occupational disease at Yum China.
We also developed contactless workflows, such as online 
meetings, live streaming of employee meetings, and 
mobile learning on digital platforms. Furthermore, flexible 
work arrangements and emergency drills are arranged to 
ensure business continuity and employee health and safety. 
Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is also launched to 
alleviate employee anxiety during the pandemic through 
professional sharing and consultation sessions. A Healthy and Safe Workplace through Physical and Mental 
Wellbeing Programs
Indicators             Unit   All employees
Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) per 
million hours worked n/million hours worked 1.34
For over 30 years, Yum China has always followed people-first philosophy. It is a remarkable achievement for us 
to be certified as a Top Employer for three consecutive years. The pandemic has deepened our belief that health 
and wellbeing of our employees is very important. In 2020, one of our top priorities is to protect the health and 
livelihoods of our 400,000 employees.
——Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
Annual physical examination coverage of restaurant 
management team and office employees Health certificate coverage of restaurant 
employees100% 100%
100%2019 2019
2020 2020
100%
We value employees’ feedback and hence we constantly 
expand communication channels so that we can hear their 
comments and questions promptly.
We believe that the more you know, the more you care. We 
have established multiple communication channels with 
our employees, including RGM Convention, Founders’ Day, 
and digital platforms such as YUMC Corporate WeChat, the 
Magic Box App and the internal portal. These ensure the 
effective communication of business strategies and other 
information concerning the company. We regularly con-
duct employee engagement surveys to understand their 
expectations and concerns. We believe that the best protection of employees can 
be achieved through open communication. During the 
pandemic, we sent nearly 100 emails to our employees to 
communicate our preventive measures, operations plans, 
employees’ health status and our direction and strategies 
in the post-pandemic era. These communication boosted 
employee morale and encouraged employees to work to -
gether with the Company through the difficult period.  
We also provide employees in over 1,500 cities with wel-
fare activities organized in our Family System. This serves 
as a networking platform for them to meet friends with 
common interests by participating in activities such as 
national badminton competitions, marathon races, and 
C.H.A.M.P .S. challenges.Engaging Employees through Transparent Communication
Providing all restaurant employees with masks. 
Conducting comprehensive training on safety protection measures. 
Initiating more frequent cleaning and disinfection of offices and restaurants.
Providing antibacterial hand sanitizer for customers to use.During the pandemic, we swiftly strengthened pandemic prevention measures in our restaurants to create a safe and healthy 
working environment. These included: 
Requiring all employees to wash and disinfect their hands before starting work and at 
regular intervals. Measuring employees’ temperatures before starting work. Employees will be required to seek 
medical consultation if abnormity is found. 
74 75
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Labor Union and Employee 
Representative Council
Upholding our philosophy of promoting growth of the 
company while safeguarding the interests and rights of 
employees, an independent labor union was established 
with the support of the All-China Federation of Trade Unions 
in 2010. Over 90% of the employees join. In 2020, the labor 
union supported the company in fighting the pandemic. "Customer Mania" Services with AI-Enabled Solution
Customer mania is one of the key elements of Yum China’s culture. We try to gain customer insight to meet their needs. 
We serve every customer with a “YES” attitude to create delightful moments. With a seamless integration of delicious food, 
technology and culture, we constantly strive to improve customer experience. We are convinced that unremitting pursuit for 
innovation can elevate the customer experience by providing them with greater pleasure and convenience.Other Channels to Communicate with Employees
Engagement
surveysFiling 
complaints
HotlineWe collect feedback 
from employees through 
structured questionnaires, 
as frequent as needed.Employees can file complaints 
to their direct supervisors, 
departmental heads, and our 
HR department. Follow-up 
will be handled by authorized 
personnel. 
Employee who are aware 
of any illegal or unethical 
behavior at work can report 
to their supervisor or head of 
the HR, or they can call the 
compliance hotline.Employee
meetingsOur functional departments 
organize various forms of 
employee forums to inform 
employees of the latest 
policies, procedures, and 
personnel information. 
They also enable us to solve 
emerging problems quickly.
Pizza Hut Employee Opinion Survey Program
As we saw an increasing number of new generation em -
ployees with fresh perspective joining Yum China, we will 
need to update our personnel management and commu -
nication approaches. Employees expect channels to give 
feedback and express their feelings. On the other hand, 
management hopes to encourage frontline employees to 
voice their issues and quickly resolve them. We supported 
this with the launch of our 2020 Pizza Hut Employee Opin-
ion Survey Program.
We encourage front-line employees to give feedback 
through regular and ad-hoc employee surveys, with an av -
erage response rate of 62% and an average score of 4.55 out 
of 5.2020
an average score of
4.55 out of 5with an average response 
rate of 
62 %Achieving 100% customer satisfaction is our customer 
service standard. We seek every opportunity to enhance 
customer experience.
We actively seek customer feedback on their dining 
experience via the Guest Experience Survey (GES) system, 
with detailed feedback forwarding to relevant restaurants for further improvement. Our Customer Service Platform 
(CSP) will automatically follow up with customers who give 
low ratings. Customers can also file complaints on the CSP 
either by scanning the QR code provided in restaurants 
or logging onto our App. Service representatives will be 
deployed to resolve customers’ issue quickly. 
We developed the C.H.A.M.P .S. Standards Library to standardize and further improve our services. We provided restaurant 
employees with training programs including customer complaint management to ensure timely and proper complaints 
handling.Upon
feedbackWithin
6 hoursReceiving
customer
complaintsResponding
speedily to
complaintsCustomer Relationship Management
We allow front-line employees to give full feedback 
through regular and ad-hoc employee surveys
In 2020 the labor union engaged in our pandemic 
prevention and control campaign
Its participation included establishing the Yum 
China Employee Assistance Fund, assisting us in 
implementing the Family Care Fund for Restaurant 
Management Team, implementing a company-wide  
Employee Assistance Program (EAP), coordinating 
employee labor relation issues; and enhancing 
employees' professional competitiveness by 
working with the mobile learning platform.KFC five-star review rate (%)2020
Pizza Hut five-star review rate (%)86.9 88.2Within
24 hoursWithin
3 daysHandling
complaints by
the responible
personEnsuring
customer
satisfaction
with resolution
76 77
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020As a digital transformative pioneer in the restaurant indus-
try, Yum China started the digital transformation journey 
in 2015 and has been investing tremendous resources in 
building a robust digital ecosystem to provide an all-round 
digital dining experience. We have already deployed digital 
and artificial intelligence technology in marketing, supply 
chains, restaurant operations and customer service, ena-
bling our restaurants to focus on providing efficient service 
to the customers.
In 2020 during challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandem-
ic, Yum China, in the spirit of fulfilling our corporate respon-
sibility towards our employees, customers, and society as 
a whole, made the decision to keep our restaurants open 
when possible and maintain delivery services to customers. 
The decision enabled us to continue serving customers’  
needs for everyday meals. It also enabled support for those 
fighting the pandemic in the frontline. To safeguard the health and safety of both our customers 
and the riders responsible for the food delivery, KFC and 
Pizza Hut restaurants nationwide launched a contactless 
delivery process. For instance, by using the KFC Safe Deliv -
ery service, customers could select the Contactless Order 
& Delivery option on the brand’s App or Wechat Mini Pro -
gram. Customers could also choose the contactless option 
for takeaway if available from the restaurants. 
To mitigate the risk of food exposure in the air, KFC and Piz-
za Hut restaurants with the contactless order and takeaway 
service would package food for both dine-in and takeaway 
orders in sealed paper bags or boxes. Restaurant self-or -
dering kiosks were regularly disinfected several times a day 
to avoid the spread of the virus. Together, these measures 
enabled our employees and customers to maintain a safe 
social distance from each other while allowing customers 
to continue enjoying our delicious food.
“KFC and Pizza Hut have provided contactless delivery, order and takeaway services nationwide. Through these 
innovations, we want to safeguard the health and safety of our employees and consumers and contribute to 
the fight against the pandemic. ”
——Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
Digital Enabled Customer Services
Cloud computing and the Internet of Things have led us 
to the information age. Many customers are using our 
App, website, and self-ordering systems every day. Hence, 
protecting information security and managing data privacy 
are top priorities for us.Our information security management system passed the 
ISO/IBC 27001:2013 certification in 2018. The KFC App and 
website passed the Multi-level Protection of Information 
Security (MLPS) of the Ministry of Public Security.
In order to protect data security of Yum China and our 
customers, we have formulated the Yum China Security 
Compliance Guidelines  and the Data Security Code of 
Conduct  in accordance with the Cybersecurity Law of 
the PRC  and the China Personal Information Security 
Specification , as well as other laws and administrative 
regulations. The two rules are designed to regulate the 
implementation and approval processes of acquiring and 
transferring data to govern Yum China's data security 
management and reduce data security risks involving its 
third-party suppliers.We established a Data Compliance Committee, serving 
as the Yum China’s governance body responsible for 
establishing our data compliance management program. 
The Committee comprises key representative from data 
control, information security, and data security compliance 
in the legal function. We conduct data compliance reviews 
based on the use of data, and training on data security 
management practices for our employees and third-party 
suppliers.Data SecurityInformation Security Management
Information Security Management Platform-Zeus
We started to build an information security 
management platform (Platform Zeus) in 2019 and 
have continuously strengthened the collection of 
network equipment, network security reinforcement 
testing, and risk management. We completed version 
2.0 of Zeus by the end of 2020. 
Zeus adopts the 1+N concept. 1 being one big 
data platform and N represents multiple functional modules, including threat intelligence, host security 
protection, application security protection, data 
security, vulnerability management, risk management, 
security incident handling, and security monitoring. 
Zeus integrates multiple security reinforcement and 
protection capabilities, from its bottom layers to the 
application layer, and it serves as our core platform for 
information security protection and management of 
our company.
Zeus embodies 
the“1+N” concept
Threat intelligence
Host security protection
Data securityVulnerability management
Risk management
Security incident handling
Security monitoring“1” means one big data platform 
“N” represents multiple functional modules, including 
Application security protectionIllustration
78 79
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Management of Personal Information and Privacy
By employing various security technology and support 
management system, we strive to minimize the risk of 
customer information being leaked, destroyed, misused, 
and unauthorized to be accessed, disclosed or modified. 
For example, we use the network Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) 
to encrypt the transmission and storage of information 
and to control data center access. When transmitting and 
storing sensitive personal information (including personal 
biometric information), we adopt security measures 
including encryption, access control, and de-identification.
We have developed a contingency plan for information 
security incidents, and regularly organized relevant personnel to conduct emergency response training and 
drills, enabling them to understand their job responsibilities 
in emergency response procedures. In the event of an 
serious incident affecting security of the customer’s 
personal information, we will abide by laws and regulations 
and the requirements of government supervision to 
promptly inform customers about the incident and the 
potential damage, the measures we have taken or will take, 
suggestions for customers to prevent and reduce risks on 
their own, and remedial measures for customers.Practicing Responsible Sourcing and Collaborative Partnership to 
Promote Social Responsibilities
As the largest restaurant company in China, we understand the huge impact of our sourcing decisions on the industry. We are 
committed to responsible sourcing and building a responsible supply chain in collaboration with our supplier partners. 
We have a large and geographically diverse network of suppliers, who provide us with food, packaging, equipment, and other 
products and services. In 2017, we began conducting supplier CSR audits to constantly promote social responsibility and 
address risks across the supply chain. 
We require all our suppliers to sign the Yum China Supplier 
Code of Conduct (CoC) before they work with us to ensure 
that they are legally compliant with all applicable laws and 
regulations.
We engage professional third-party auditing firms to 
conduct CSR audits, evaluating their performances in areas such as child / minor labor, forced labor, health and safety, 
discrimination, disciplinary measures, working hours, wages 
and benefits, environmental management and safety. We 
include CSR and Business Continuity Management (BCM) 
along with innovation, quality, safety, and cost optimization 
as performance evaluation criteria in the Yum China 
business review for supply chain management.Building a Responsible Supply Chain Together
Supplier CSR Audits
In 2020, CSR audits covered nearly 400 suppliers, including 
all critical suppliers*. We have upgraded the CSR audit 
framework by adding evaluation criteria on business ethics, 
CSR management systems, and environmental actions. 
We require suppliers to submit detailed correction and 
prevention action plans, which we review along with a third-
party auditor. In 2020, all suppliers submitted correction 
and prevention action plans after the CSR audits.
We are keenly aware that honoring social responsibilities, promoting sustainability and building a green and 
sustainable supply chain ecosystem cannot be achieved overnight. It calls for long-term and arduous efforts. But 
we have confidence and resolution that we will to reach our destination if we work together with solidarity. We are committed to protecting customers’ personal information and privacy from illegal collection, use, and sharing. We 
ensure that customers have the right to know and control their information and privacy in accordance with laws. We develop 
policies on personal information and privacy protection, which are disclosed on our website.Individual Privacy
 In 2020
Suppliers submitted correction and prevention action 
plans after the CSR audits  
100 %
*Yum China sorts all suppliers into four categories - innovative suppliers, key suppliers, regular suppliers, and other suppliers - based 
on their innovative capabilities, key raw materials, and procurement volume. Among them, innovative suppliers and key suppliers are 
our critical suppliers, providing us with critical raw materials and services. ——Danny Tan , Chief Supply Chain Officer of Yum China
80 81
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Yum China is committed to local sourcing to achieve win-win cooperation. Local sourcing allows for better tracing and control, 
which to the great extent makes our supply chain more stable, efficient, and sustainable, reducing risks relating to food safety 
and the environment. Our success would be impossible without community support. We are therefore willing to fulfill our 
social responsibilities through local sourcing, contributing to local economic development and giving back to society.
We encourage our overseas suppliers to expand operations in China. At the same time, we seek local suppliers for synergies, 
cost competitiveness, and rapid market response. As of the end of 2020, our local suppliers were located in 21 provinces, 4 
municipalities, and 4 autonomous regions across China. About 99.1% of these suppliers were in China, playing a positive role 
in boosting local economic development, employment, and taxation.
3%
84 %
13 %CSR Ratings: A-grading
Score ≥ 90/100 AND without 
any critical issue
CSR Ratings: B-grading
80/100 ≤ Score < 90/100 AND 
without any critical issue
CSR Ratings: C-grading
Score < 80/100 OR with any 
critical issueValid for 24 months
Valid for 12 months
Requires immediate remediation and a re-audit. 
If the supplier is still graded C in the follow-up 
audit, it is considered high risk, and Yum China 
carefully reviews the partnership.
2020 CSR Audit Result
About 400 active suppliers in our 
sourcing systems
400
(Excluding special suppliers such as 
2020 grade A suppliers, suppliers 
providing services only, suppliers 
involved small quantity purchase, 
construction suppliers)
The supplier participation rate of 
online training reaching 
97 %business ethics, social responsibility 
management system, and environ-
mental management system  
Corrective and preventive 
management: 
CAPAP (corrective action and pre -
ventive action plan) submission 
rate after the audit 
100 %New chapters and content for 
audit:Labor Rights 
and Interests
Child Labor/Minor 
Employee
Forced Labor
Discrimination
Punishment 
Harassment and 
Abuse
Legal Employment
Communication and 
Exchanges
Working Hours
Wages and BenefitsSafetyBusiness 
EthicsEnvironmentEvaluation Criteria of Yum China CSR Audits 
Business Ethics
Bribery
Conflicts of InterestEnvironmental 
Assessment and 
Acceptance
Environmental 
ManagementHealth and Safety
Fire Safety
Equipment Safety
Electricity Safety
Occupational Health 
Management
Chemical 
Management
Occupational Injuries
Dormitories and 
Dining HallsLocal Sourcing
82 83
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 202004
Yum China recognizes the value of community and cares about its development. We 
aim to promote mutually beneficial development with the community. We will use 
our scale and strength to enhance productivity in rural areas and help improve the 
nutrition of children living there. We boost local economic growth while working with 
the community through initiatives including facilitating access to quality education, 
enhancing community relations, caring for the vulnerable, promoting traditional culture 
and healthy lifestyles, and helping reduce food waste to build a sustainable future.
Sustainability 
Background
High Relevance Medium Relevance· In November 2020, China announced it completed the goal of eliminating   extreme poverty. 
However, relative poverty remains a major challenge that requires a long-term commitment 
to poverty alleviation and development.
· In July 2019, the State Council issued the Opinions on Implementing Healthy China Initiative, 
established the Healthy China Promotion Committee, and issued the Healthy China Initiative 
Organization, Implementation and Assessment Plan and the Healthy China Action Plan (2019-
2030),  which includes residents’ health literacy and physical exercise as important indicators. 
· In 2017, the report to the 19th CPC National Congress proposed a social governance model 
based on collaboration, participation, and common interests. It advocated for a stronger 
community governance system, combining complementary governmental governance and 
self-regulation within society. Enterprises are important players in community governance. 
Their participation in urban community governance can contribute to community 
development and improve their social influence.
· After the establishment of World Reading Day in 1995, China followed the international call to 
advocate for reading. The Chinese Academy of Press and Publication’s latest national reading 
survey shows that China’s national reading rate continues to edge up, reflecting the people’s 
growing demand to read. 
Contribution
to the SDGs
Customers 
·  Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity
·  Care for Special 
Groups
·  Public Awareness and 
Education
·  Food Loss and WasteUpstream Suppliers
· Poverty
  Alleviation· Poverty
  AlleviationSuppliers Logistics Restaurants
·  Support 
Education and 
Culture
·  Community CareCommunity
CareKey Material Topics Across the Value Chain
Our Goal and Commitment
Our employees volunteer no less thanCommunity Care:
1.5  million hours per yearSustainable Supply Chain Sustainable Restaurants Sustainable Communities
84 85
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Material Topics Our Directions Progress in 2020
Poverty
AlleviationImprove child 
nutrition and 
contribute to 
revitalizing rural 
industries· As of the end of 2020, the One Yuan Donation program had raised more 
than 220 million yuan from over 130 million consumers, including more 
than 55 million yuan from Yum China and its employees. It donated 49.88 
million nutritious meals to children and kitchen equipment to 1,156 schools, 
benefiting more than 760,000 students. The project covered 13 provinces and 
autonomous regions including Sichuan, Yunnan, Guizhou, Hubei, Guangxi, 
Hunan, Fujian, Hebei, Xinjiang, Heilongjiang, Gansu, Ningxia, and Shaanxi.
· As of the end of 2020, the Pizza Hut Grow Local Initiative had benefited more 
than 1,200 farmers and university students.
Diversity and
Equal OpportunityPromote equal 
education and 
traditional Chinese 
culture·  As of the end of 2020, the project had invested more than 120 million yuan in 
sponsoring over 19,000 college students, covering 68 universities in 30 cities. 
Students benefited from the project and gave back to society with more than 
500,000 hours of social services.
Community CareBecome a good 
neighbor in the 
community· As of the end of 2020, the School After 4:30 pm program had organized more 
than 1,000 activities in 30 cities.
· Pizza Hut expanded its Public Reading program to around 70 restaurants in 17 
cities.
Care for Special 
GroupsAddress the cultural 
and educational 
needs of special 
groups, and care 
for workers on the 
front line during the 
covid-19 pandemic· As of the end of 2020, the Little Migratory Birds Fund had donated over 
24 million yuan, benefiting three million left-behind and migrant children. 
It had donated 1,900 reading corners to communities and schools in 29 
provinces with over 30,000 book-reading activities and had donated over 
540,000 popular children's books. It had held over 600 Little Migratory Birds 
story-telling and related activities in KFC restaurant in over 100 cities; KFC 
Storytellers and volunteers had provided over 40,000 hours of volunteer 
service.
· Yum China delivered over 170,000 meals from KFC, Pizza Hut, and Little 
Sheep to over 1,450 hospitals and medical centers throughout the covid-19 
pandemic.
Public Awareness 
and EducationRaise public health 
awareness and 
promote traditional 
Chinese culture· As of the end of 2020, Yum China had conducted more than 470 educational 
activities on food safety and nutrition for children.
· In 2020, the YUMC Cup for Food Safety and Nutritional Health Knowledge 
Competition covered more than 40 universities in 10 cities.
· During the 2020 National Nutrition Week, over 6,000 KFC restaurants 
continued to use tray liners specially designed for the National Nutrition Week 
to help promote nutrition and health awareness. It has reached over 120 
million consumers since 2016.
· The fire rescue themed restaurant project covered 10 cities including 
Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Hangzhou, with 29 themed restaurants established 
and more than 450 popularization activities held.
Food Loss
and WastePromote food waste 
reduction and 
explore ways to give 
out excess unsold 
meals· The Food Bank project expanded to 20 restaurants in five cities including 
Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Foshan, Fuzhou, and Nanjing.One Yuan Donation: Mobilizing public donations 
to improve child nutrition: We cooperate with the 
China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) to 
encourage donations from the public to improve 
child nutrition in poor areas.Grow Local: Revitalizing rural economies and 
boosting local development: We help to identify 
business opportunities in rural areas to drive local 
economic development.Improving Child Nutrition and Revitalizing Rural Industry
Food Bank,bringing food to those in need: We distribute excess food that is left 
unsold to needy residents through the KFC Food Bank ((in cooperation with local 
authorities to ensure that it goes to the truly needy in an orderly way), in order 
to reduce food waste and advocating the public to conserve food.Reducing Food Waste and Building a Responsible SocietyEnhancing educational equity: We provided 
computer equipment and free instructor-led virtual 
coding courses to children in rural areas, helping 
them to acquire essential digital skills that is much-
needed to thrive in a digital world. By increasing 
digital learning opportunities, the Digital Classroom 
initiative contributes to the revitalization of rural 
education and talent development.Supporting students from underprivileged families: 
Yum China established a three-in-one funding model 
with the China Youth Development Foundation (CYDF),  
providing underprivileged college students with 
good academic performance with financial supports, 
practical part-time work opportunities as well as 
platforms for social services to encourage the fund 
recipients to give back to the society.Promoting Education Equity
School After 4:30 pm:
Yum China provides 
children from different 
backgrounds with spaces 
for public activities.Promoting public reading: 
We conduct online and offline 
activities to promote public 
reading.Giving Back to the Community
Caring for left-behind and migrant 
children: Yum China continuously 
promotes the Little Migratory Birds 
Fund program to enrich the life 
of seasonal dual-earner families’ 
children through reading, sports 
and art activities. Proving free meals to contribute to the fight against 
COVID-19: After the outbreak of the pandemic, Yum 
China donated money to frontline health professionals. 
We provided free meals to frontline workers to show 
our deep gratitude and Pizza Hut made limited-time 
offers featuring traditional delicacies to uplift the local 
produce market in the impacted areas.Caring for Special Groups and Fulfilling Special Needs
Promoting traditional culture: 
Yum China integrated charming 
Chinese culture elements 
into its restaurants to inspire 
community’s appreciation for 
local cultural heritage .Promoting information 
on food safety: 
We educate children 
on food safety through 
various activities.Promoting positivity: 
Yum China signed an agreement with the 
China Internet Development Foundation 
to donate money. We also promoted 
charity activities that promote positivity 
both online and offline.Promoting Traditional Chinese Culture and Healthy LifestylesOur Management ApproachOur Roadmap
86 87
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020In 2020, Yum China continued to promote rural revitalization. Yum China invested in improving child nutrition and revitalizing  
the economy in rural areas via programs such as the One Yuan Donation program and the Pizza Hut Grow Local Initiative.Improving Child Nutrition and Revitalizing Rural Industry
Small Donations, Deep Care
“Inheriting while innovating has always been the theme of 
One Yuan Donation. We keep easy access to the program 
by continuing to conduct donation activities in restaurants 
while adding online donation activities. In 2020, innovative 
and interesting forms of donation activities such as Cloud 
Visit and Live Sales for Charities were also adopted, and 
showing care was as easy as a finger tab on the screen”
——Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
In response to the government’s National Nutrition Plan 
(2017-2030) , we have prioritized nutritional improvement 
in poverty-stricken areas as a CSR activity. Since launching 
One Yuan Donation with the CFPA in 2008, Yum China has 
encouraged online and offline donations for child nutrition 
in impoverished regions.
One Yuan Donation has made continuous breakthroughs 
and innovations in its 13-year history. We continued to 
innovate with imaginative public activities even during the 
pandemic. Online, we organized the Cloud Visit and Live 
Sales for Charities activities and launched two campaigns 
(#DuckFacesTogether and #PickYourNutritiousDiet) on 
TikTok to encourage people to donate without going out. 
Yum China also conducted One Yuan Donation activities 
offline.
All donations funded child nutrition in underprivileged 
areas. Every three yuan purchased a nutritious meal for 
children in remote areas, and every 50,000-60,000 yuan 
provides a rural school with a fully equipped modern 
kitchen. At the end of 2020, 1,156 kitchens had been 
donated to remote areas in 13 provinces/autonomous 
regions, producing meals for nearly 400,000 children. As of the end of 2020
220 million
130 million
1,15649.88 million
760,000
The project covered 13  provinces/autonomous 
regions, including Sichuan, Yunnan, Guizhou, 
Hubei, Guangxi, Hunan, Fujian, Hebei, Xinjiang, 
Heilongjiang, Gansu, Ningxia, and Shaanxi.One Yuan Donation: Mobilizing Public Donations to Improve Child Nutrition In 2020, we conducted One Yuan Donation activities both online and offline to promote the idea that anyone can 
make an impact on society nationwide and provide the public with easy ways to donate. We encouraged donations via 
CSR activities including taking photos virtually with the CEO of Yum China, Yum China’s management participating in 
charity sales, and a charity bazaar.
Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China, Forming a Love-shaped 
Gesture online with a Child from a Rural Area 
Yum China’s One Yuan Donation Charity BazaarAlice Wang (left), Chief Public Affairs Officer of Yum 
China, Streaming a Charity Activity Live with a HostOne Yuan Donation online and offline activities
Over 220 million yuan had been 
raised
Over 130 million 
customers participated 
in donation
Modern kitchen 
equipment to 1,156 
schoolsBenefited over 760,000  
childrenThe program had provided 
49.88 million nutritious 
meals for childrenFeature Story
88 89
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Pandemic Emergency Response
Pizza Hut Grow Local Initiative: Promoting the Employment of 
University Graduates by Cultivating New Agricultural Talent
Yum China’s CEO and Executives Taking a Group Photo with 
Children after Distributing Clothes
Cooking in a Modern Kitchen
Yum China’s CEO Distributing KFC Meals to Children
Yum China considers local industry development as a good 
starting point to promote lagging economies in remote are -
as. We launched the Grow Local program in 2018, using our 
capabilities in menu innovation and our nationwide reach 
to help targeted remote areas identify and tap agricultural 
development opportunities. Grow Local promoted local 
products.Yum China also established cooperation with local gov -
ernments to introduce more advanced technology and 
efficient ideas for promoting industries to support the im-
plementation of Grow Local. Besides fruits produced on the 
Yunnan-Guizhou Plateau, we also introduced pomegranates 
from Yunnan, Zigui Oranges from Hubei, and lemons from 
Sichuan for sale on Pizza Hut’s e-commerce platform. Our 
supply chain advantages  supported industrial develop -
ments in these areas. 
Dragon Fruit from Guizhou and Fruit JuiceGrow Local: Energizing Rural Economy and Boosting Local Development
During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, Yum China acted swiftly to donate Modern Kitchens and school 
supplies to children in Wuhan schools. We provided 70 schools in eight less developed counties in Hubei 
province with Modern Kitchen equipment, enabling over 24,000 students to have nutritious and safe-to-eat 
meals.
Dragon fruit production has risen consistently since the program began in Guizhou in 
2019, fueling demand for relevant talent. Yum China intensified its support for Grow 
Local in 2020 via a training program for agricultural standardization via the Guizhou 
Education and Training Base for Farmers  as an agricultural education site. We also 
funded college students to participate in the program. As of December 2020, it had 
benefited over 1,200 farmers and college students.
Grow Local Farmers Training Session in 
ZhenfengParticipants Taking the Field Management of 
Fruit Seedings Course 
 As of December 2020
1,200It had benefited over 1,200 
farmers and college studentsChildren Taking Meals in the Modern Kitchen
Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China (7th from left) and Xiang Keqiang, Deputy Director of the Poverty Alleviation Office of Hubei 
Province (5th from right) at the opening ceremony of the Modern Kitchen Donation program, with representatives from 
Yum China management, the CFPA, and Xiaochang County Government of Hubei ProvinceFeature Story
Feature Story
90 91
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Yum China is keenly aware that educational demands in rural and remote areas are changing as society advances. We address the 
needs of students in these areas by increasing digital learning opportunities.
In China, many rural primary schools in remote areas not only lack teachers with programming teaching experience, but also face 
a severe shortage of modern computers and equipment, making it difficult to provide computer programing education. Yum China promotes education equity and creates more opportunities for quality education for young people by continuously 
exploring diversified pathways. We also build funds with external partners and organize external volunteer activities to 
provide a fair and quality educational platform for children and students in different regions.Promoting Education Equity
Promoting Education EquitySupporting Students from Underprivileged Families
In 2019, in partnership with CFPA and Leap Learner, Yum 
China started to explore creating digital learning opportu-
nities for children in rural areas. Starting in Gansu province, 
the Company donated computers and established digital 
classrooms as part of its One Yuan Donation program, the 
Company’s signature nationwide community campaign. 
In 2020, Yum China expanded the pilot project to provide 
remote instructor-led coding training to teachers from over 
100 schools in Ningxia and Hunan provinces. The training is 
designed to help the teachers to learn coding and build fun-
damental knowledge needed to teach students and support 
the next generation workforce. We established the KFC First Light Fund in 2002 to provide 
financial support to students from underprivileged families 
with good academic performance.
2020
5 million RMB
Provide new computer equipment and free in-
structor-led virtual coding courses  and train-
ing  to children and teachers in rural areas
In the past two years under the pilot program, teachers and 
students have benefited greatly from the virtual training and 
coding classes and have noted considerable improvements 
in their digital capabilities. Building on a successful pilot in-
troduced in 2019, Yum China has donated RMB 5 million to 
fund the Digital Classroom Initiative, providing children in 
rural areas with access to digital learning opportunities. As of the end of 2020
As of the end of 2020120 million
500,000 hours 30 cities 
19,00068 universitiesWe had invested over 120 million yuan in the fund
Students had provided over 500,000 hours of 
social services in total Across nationwide 
Supported over 19,000 college studentsThe fund promotes independence and personal growth 
while providing scholarships to students. We also 
created the First Light Commune, a social platform, via 
which students can identify and help others with similar 
backgrounds as theirs, thus giving back to society. As of 
the end of 2020, we invested over 120 million yuan in the 
fund and supported over 19,000 college students in 68 
universities across 30 cities nationwide. While benefiting 
from the fund, students had provided over 500,000 hours of 
social services in total by the end of 2020.
Yum China donated
92 93
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Yum China values giving back to the community and society. Through our widely distributed restaurants, we aim to enhance 
mutual care among citizens and help build a harmonious community. Yum China opens restaurants and offers a wide range 
of services in many communities of various types. Through the KFC School After 4:30 pm program, we provide children from 
different backgrounds with spaces for public activities. We also encourage reading and socialization through Pizza Hut’s Public 
Reading Program.
KFC launched its first School After 4:30 pm themed 
restaurant in 2016. In 2020, the program expanded to cover 
primary school students with two working parents, those 
from poor families, and those whose parents are migrant 
workers. As no one could care for them after school, we 
provided them with spaces for public activity after school 
in restaurants and community service centers, which could 
promote child physical and mental development. As of the 
end of 2020, School After 4:30 pm had covered 30 cities and 
provided over 1,000 activities.Giving Back to the Community
As of the end of 2020
As of the end of 202030
76 million
690,000 1,000School After 4:30 pmYum China encourages daily reading in the community by organizing online and offline reading activities through its many 
restaurants and online platforms.
As one of the beloved restaurants for kids, KFC launched the “Book Kingdom” program in 2016 to distribute selected children’s 
books along with Kids’ Meals to motivate kids to read more good books and expand their horizons while enjoying the 
delicious food. 
In the past few years, the “Book Kingdom” 
initiated book list workshops, quality chil-
dren’s reading lists, in-restaurant and online 
storytelling sessions, as well as a wide range 
of activities to spark children’s interest and 
boost children’s reading skill. In 2020, KFC 
launched an online picture book writing 
contest with a theme called “I Am A Little 
Picture Book Writer” , inviting children to 
draw the most beautiful scenes in their 
mind describing the harmonious co-ex -
istence between ocean and human under 
the theme of“Guarding Mother Ocean” . The 
first picture book session included 2,800 
outstanding children’s works. This picture 
book creating experience served as family 
engagement that helps families to build a 
bond while leaves good childhood memo -
ries for the children. 
By the end of 2020, over 76 million books 
had been distributed during the initiative, 
with over 690,000 storytelling sessions held. “I Am A Little Picture Book Writer” poster
Offline “Book Kingdom” ActivityPromoting Reading in Communities
covered  30 cities  
Over 76 million books had been 
distributed during the initiative
With over 690,000 storytelling 
sessions heldSchool After 4:30 pm had provided 
over 1,000 activities
School After 4:30 pm Activities
In 2020, Yum China invited local cultural charity partners and volunteers from Fuzhou, Jinan, Qingdao, Shenzhen, 
and Wuxi to conduct cultural, etiquette, and science classes with different local characteristics. This enabled 
children to exchange cultural and scientific knowledge after school while enhancing neighborhood interaction. 
The KFC Magic Food Truck in Jixi National Wetland Park School after 4:30 pm Themed Activity with Fuzhou - 
Chaoshan Culture
KFC “ Book Kingdom”
Feature Story
94 95
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Caring for Special Groups and Fulfilling Special Needs
Yum China is devoted to providing safe and effective support for those in need. By using our restaurants as a platform, we 
provided left-behind children with warm spaces for public activity. When the COVID-19 pandemic broke out in early 2020, 
we acted swiftly to provide frontline workers with free meals. As the situation improved, we continued to leverage our 
food innovation expertise to develop new local favor products in order to help  boost the morale of the public and drive 
consumption recovery in pandemic-hit areas. 
In China, the education of left-behind and migrant children has always been a focus of social attention. Yum China helped 
this effort by setting up the KFC Little Migratory Birds Fund in 2016, which uses methods including donating book corners 
and organizing story-telling sessions and themed activities to promote the happy and healthy growth of migrant children. 
In 2019 and 2020, KFC collaborated with the China Children and Teenagers Foundation to hold the art-themed Little 
Migratory Birds in Summer activity, supporting migrant children who are passionate about art.
Migrant Children from Inner Mongolia, Chongqing, Shandong 
and Shanghai Performing OnlineAs of the end of 2020
3million
1,900
540,000 40,000  hours30,000
60024 millionThe Little Migratory Birds 
Fund had donated over 24 
million yuan
Donated 1,900 book corners 
for schools in 29 provinces
Donated over 540,000 high-
quality children’s books
Held over 600 story-telling sessions and related activities for 
migrant children in KFC restaurants in over 100 citiesContributed over 40,000 hours of 
volunteering time by KFC"Story 
Tellers" and other volunteersOrganized over 30,000 book-
reading sessionsCaring for Left-behind and Migrant children
Benefited three million left-
behind and migrant children
A Family Enjoying Their Meals While Reading Books in a Pizza Hut RestaurantPizza Hut’s Public Reading 
Program
Since its inception in 2018, the 
program has expanded to around 70 
Pizza Hut restaurants in 17 cities. We 
provide public reading platforms in 
collaboration with local governments 
and third-party resources, enabling 
customers to socialize and read while 
enjoying their meals.
Audio Books with Cheese
On 2020’s World Reading Day, we launched a new type of cheese product. To encourage public reading, we 
collaborated with audiobook provider Sanlianzhongdu to equip Pizza Hut restaurants in Beijing with audiobook 
resources. This was a creative way to connect food with audiobook listening, which was a novel and inspiring 
combination for many customers.
Feature Story
96 97
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020In 2020, we provided free meals to frontline workers during 
the pandemic. We also send free meals to frontline workers 
during holidays and in fierce summer and winter weather. 
From the outbreak of the pandemic to the recovery, Yum 
China never stopped caring for frontline workers and 
impacted areas.
Not long after the outbreak of the pandemic, Yum China 
immediately donated three million yuan directly to Tongji 
Hospital, a hospital affiliated to Tongji Medical College 
of Huazhong University of Science & Technology. This 
provided each of the first groups of medical professionals 
caring for COVID-19 patients with aid worth 3,000 yuan. 
Aware that medical professionals were facing challenges 
in food supplies, Yum China recruited volunteering 
employees in Wuhan and reopened five KFC and three Pizza 
Hut restaurants, providing medical professionals in some 
key hospitals in Wuhan with over 1,000 free meals every 
day. The meals were taken by designated personnel from hospitals at the same time from the same restaurants every 
day. The recipes of all meals were designed and renewed 
regularly, focusing not only on nutrition but also on taste.
Even at the peak of the outbreak, we kept a majority of 
restaurants open, so that millions of people could have 
access to safe and hearty meals.
3 millionYum China donated 3 million 
yuan directly to Tongji Hospital 
upon the pandemic outburst
Free Meals for Medical ProfessionalsContributing to the Fight against COVID-19 by Providing Free Meals to 
Frontline Workers
In this difficult time when the whole nation is combating the 
pandemic, every one of us is obligated to play our part. As 
a restaurant company, we will do everything we can to use 
our restaurants as platforms to support frontline medical 
professionals and show our deep gratitude and care via free 
and ready-to-eat meals.
——Joey Wat, CEO of Yum ChinaYum China also supported our communities by providing donations, free meals, and volunteer services to medical workers on 
the frontline.
 In 2020
1,450free meals of KFC, Pizza Hut and 
Little SheepYum China provided over With over
hospitals and medical centers
Showing Our Deep Gratitude to Frontline Workers with Thousands of 
Free Meals
The sudden pandemic concerned everyone. Since its outbreak, 340 medical teams with practically 40,000 
medical professionals from across the country worked day and night on the frontline, fighting against the 
pandemic. On International Women’s Day, Yum China’s KFC and Pizza Hut collaborated with the Health 
Commission of Hubei Province and the Wuhan Municipal Administration for Market Regulation in closing 
our 17 contactless delivery restaurants for a whole day, working with volunteers to provide over 10,000 
free meals to 88 medical teams sent to Hubei province.
KFC and Pizza Hut Restaurants in Wuhan Sending Meals 
to Thank Medical Teams17Yum China dedicated 17 contactless delivery 
restaurants
Working with volunteers to provide over 10,000 
free meals to 88 medical teams sent to Hubei 
province
88170,000
Feature Story
98 99
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Promoting Traditional Chinese Culture and Healthy Lifestyles
Yum China believes that public promotion and education play a crucial role in promoting cultural activities in the community. 
In 2020, we continued to work with communities to promote traditional Chinese culture, raise customer awareness of food 
safety, and improve public awareness of nutrition and health.
Yum China has always been committed to promoting traditional Chinese culture during our history of over 30 years in China. 
We use the close relationship between our customers and our restaurants to bring traditional culture to more people.
Promoting Chinese Classics
Beginning in 2018, KFC partnered with the National 
Museum of China to launch the National Treasure Shining 
China and China on Fingertips activities. KFC also used its 
restaurants to embody themes including history, culture, 
and traditional arts across the country to engage customers. 
Working with the National Palace Museum, KFC launched 
buckets themed with a “Six Amazing Auspicious Beasts 
of the Forbidden City” design in 2020 and decorated its 
restaurants with the “Auspicious Signs with China” theme to 
celebrate Chinese New Year. Promoting Traditional Chinese Culture
Pizza Hut Offering Wuhan Hot-dry Noodles to support the recovery of 
Hubei’s cultural tourism
In mid-2020,  Pizza Hut collaborated with Wuhan Hot-dry Noodles brand Cai Linji and Sanlian Life Weekly 
magazine to offer customers  “Grilled Crayfish Hot-dry Noodles” for a limited time in Wuhan, a tribute to the 
traditional food culture of Hubei, in order to support the recovery of Hubei’s cultural tourism, as the city recovers 
from the pandemic.
Grilled Crayfish Hot-dry Noodles Provided for a Limited Time by Pizza Hut in 2020KFC Buckets Themed with the Six Amazing Auspicious Beasts 
of the Forbidden City
During the Mid-autumn Festival in 2020, Yum China’s Pizza 
Hut collaborated with the Dunhuang Museum to decorate  
selected restaurants in nine cities (Shanghai, Hangzhou, 
Nanjing, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Chengdu, Shenyang, Xi’an, 
and Lanzhou) with Dunhuang Art, promoting the museum’s 
traditional arts in the community.
Pizza Hut Dunhuang-themed Decoration9
Yum China’s Pizza Hut collaborated with 
the Dunhuang Museum to decorate 
restaurants in 9 cities with Dunhuang Art
12 ,000500,000  We provided over worth 500,000 yuan to families of 
medical professionals
free self-heating hotpotsOn February 7, 2020, Little Sheep participated in the Supporting the Families of Aiding-Hubei 
Medical Professionals & Collectively Combating COVID-19 initiative jointly launched by the 
Shanghai Women's Federation (SWF), the Shanghai Municipal Health Commission, and the Shanghai 
Children Foundation (SCF). We provided over 12,000 free self-heating hotpots worth 500,000 yuan 
to families of medical professionals sent to aid Hubei province, showing our deep gratitude for the 
frontline workers.Feature Story
Feature Story
100 101
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Integrating into Local Culture
Shanghai School Culture Theme RestaurantsYum China has worked with local museums and different tourism areas to launch Chinese culture-themed restaurants that 
engage the community and promote traditional Chinese culture. KFC and Pizza Hut also blended modern culture and local 
features when developing theme restaurants, enhancing the cultural identity of the community and helping people enjoy the 
charm of traditional arts in daily life.
Yum China promotes crossover collaboration to integrate traditional culture into the modern food industry. In the Xujiahui 
street of the Shanghai  School block, a Pizza Hut restaurant and a KFC restaurant were decorated to be Shanghai School 
culture theme restaurants. Guarding the Children and Y outh, 
We Are in Action
In 2020, Yum China conducted activities entitled 
“Guarding the Children and Youth, We Are in Action”  
to educate youth about food safety. We conducted 
the activities during the pandemic in 2020 via video 
links, and we transformed selected KFC restaurants in 
seven cities including Changsha, Foshan, Xining, and 
Shanghai into food safety education and experience 
spaces later that year. We also organized offline science-
based activities on campus and in communities. This 
combination of annual activities, virtual classes, and 
experience spaces continued engaging young people to 
raise their awareness of food safety and nutrition.
FoshanWuhanShanghai XiningAs of and the end of 2020
47 0
22Strengthening Education on Food Safety
Yum China had conducted over 470 educational activities
We had adapted 22 selected KFC restaurants to offer 
experience spaces for educating young people about 
food safety
102 103
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020The 2020 YUMC Cup for Food Safety and Nutritional Health Knowledge CompetitionYUMC Cup
Raising Public Awareness of Nutrition and HealthPromoting Information via Online Platforms
Yum China launched the official Wechat account - Best 
Foods & Best Sports  in 2017 to promote health and 
nutrition awareness. We promote healthy diet and healthy 
lifestyles using everyday stories that resonate with people. 
We expanded its influence by creating themed  short videos 
in TikTok in May 2020.Yum China launched the YUMC Cup knowledge contest in 2017. Under the guidance of market supervisory authorities, we 
regularly hold the YUMC Cup for Food Safety and Nutritional Health Knowledge Competition among universities. We pass on 
scientific information about nutrition and health to college students and the public through various activities including knowledge 
competitions, and online answering on Alipay.
YUMC Cup 2020 was a collaboration between Yum China, the China Market Regulation News, and Alipay’s Answering Planet (a mini-
program launched by Alipay). We launched it in October and 
held the national finals in Beijing in December. We expanded 
the scale of the event in 2020 to cover over 40 universities in 10 
cities, attracting over 2.3 million knowledge quiz participants 
through the competition platform just for the practice 
section. Teams from universities in different cities participated 
in debates and interactive games besides the knowledge 
competitions. Information technology and the internet have 
made the event more influential. It promoted food safety and 
nutrition awareness, helping us to further improve public 
health.The 2020 YUMC Cup
2.3 million
10Attracted over 2.3 million knowledge quiz 
participants through the competition platform
Attracted participants from over 40 
universities in 10 cities nationwide.
National Nutrition Week
National Nutrition Week, which falls in the third week of 
every May, is a national nutrition promotion program 
initiated by the Chinese Nutrition Society and the Institute 
for Nutrition and Health of the Chinese Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention. It is part of the National Nutrition 
Plan (2017-2030)  and has become an important part of 
building a healthy China in the new era. The 2020 program 
was officially launched nationwide on May 17, 2020. Over 
6,600 KFC restaurants continued to use tray liners specially 
designed for National Nutrition Week to help promote 
nutrition and health awareness. This is the fifth consecutive 
year that Yum China has supported the program, and it has 
reached over 120 million customers.
We help to promote its "Balanced Diet, Foundation of 
Immunity" theme by including related information on our 
tray liners. The liners inform the public of the fundamental role a balanced diet can play in enhancing immunity, 
promoting high-quality protein sources such as milk and 
soy. We also promoted single-serve meals while calling 
on the public to not engage wild-life consumption for a 
healthier lifestyle.
During National Nutrition Week, Yum China distributed 
questionnaires about healthy lifestyles to physicians across 
the country in collaboration with the Community Nutrition 
and Health Management Branch of the Chinese Nutrition 
Society, the Chinese Medical Doctor Association, and the 
Beijing Dietitian Association. Based on the analysis results, 
we released the Survey Report on the Healthy Lifestyle 
of Chinese Physicians  on Physician Day to help increase 
the society’s understanding of and care for the physician 
community.
KFC Tray Liner Specially Designed for National Nutrition Week
National Nutrition Week of 2020
From 2016 to 20206,600
Over 6,600 KFC restaurants continued to use 
special designed tray liners
120 million
The program has reached over total 120 million 
customersYum China Promoting Information on Nutrition and Health via 
WeChat and TikTok
104 105
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Walls of KFC Restaurants in Shanghai Decorated with Pictures of 
Fire Rescue-themed Pictures and CartoonsChildren Receiving Fire-fighting Knowledge EducationWe promote positivity online in innovative ways to inspire consumers to participate in charity activities. We signed a donation 
agreement with the China Internet Development Foundation and donated 10 million yuan to the China Network Development 
Fund's Internet Public Welfare fund. These donations will help to promote charitable content related to emergency response, fire 
prevention and safety education, poverty alleviation, healthy lifestyles, and charitable public activities.
In 2020, Yum China supported the “Safeguarding the Safety of People’s Life and Work” interviews that were organized by 
Cyberspace Administration of China and the online promotion activities with themes of “Preserving Lucid Waters and Lush 
Mountains” and “Understanding Fire Fighting” and decorated 29 restaurants in 10 cities nationwide into fire rescue-themed 
restaurants where over 450 emergency response education activities were held. During the activities, kids and their parents in 
the community were educated to know more about disaster relief and improve their emergency response capabilities to further 
enhance general fire safety.
In 2020, we expanded to 
5cities  
20 restaurants
In 2020
10
Fire rescue-themed restaurants
in 10 cities nationwide 29
29 fire rescue-themed 
restaurants450
Over 450 emergency response 
education activities were heldPromoting PositivityReducing Food Waste and Building a Responsible Society
In response to the government’s Stop Food Waste initiative, Yum China works hard to reduce food waste. We launched our 
pilot Food Bank program in Shenzhen KFC restaurants in September 2020 to provide excess food for free to needy residents.
KFC has been working on reducing food waste by employing technology to 
improve management procurement, production, and sales. However, due 
to volatile factors such as restaurant traffic and weather, some restaurants 
have a small amount of food left unsold. We have begun to freeze and 
distribute the surplus food for free to nearby residents in need. 
KFC Employees Bringing Food to a Food Bank  Residents Taking Food 
KFC Launched Their First Food Bank in Shenzhen
Food Bank program has garnered high praise. This pro -
gram was publicly voted as one of the Top Ten Charity 
Events in Guangzhou in 2020. The Guangzhou Charity 
Federation and the Guangzhou Charity Association se -
lected Guangdong KFC Food Bank as the First Batch of 
Charity Spaces in Guangzhou. The Standing Committee 
of the National People’s Congress included the Food 
Bank in its report on the implementation of the Charity 
Law of the People's Republic of China as an excellent 
example of Innovative charity program.Food Bank: Bringing Food to Those in NeedDuring the National Science Popularization Week period 
from September 19 to 25, 2020, Yum China’s KFC collaborat -
ed with the Chinese Institute of Food Science and Technolo -
gy, initiated to use 20.5 million tray liners with food-related 
knowledge in over 6,700 KFC restaurants in more than 1,400 
cities nationwide. This initiative has encouraged the public 
to choose healthier ways of living by passing down posi-
tive messages and educating customers to understand the 
process behind the food supplies chain and the scientific 
knowledge in daily meals. 
Food Safety & Nutritional Science Tray Liner 6,700
Initiated to use 20.5 million tray liners with food-related 
knowledge to over 6,700 KFC restaurants in more than 1,400 
cities nationwide
106 107
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 202005
Indicators Unit 2019 2020
FOOD
ENVIRONMENT
PEOPLERestaurant Food Safety and Quality Audits
(i.e. Operational Excellence Check)times  17,000+ 16,200+
Product Checks on Key Menu Items in 
Restaurantstimes 3,400+ 3,690+
Microbiological Testing in Restaurants pieces 83,000+ 71,000+
Food Safety and Quality Audits on Suppliers times 590+ 600+
Key Raw Materials Sampling Tests in 
Restaurantspieces 680+ 300+
Total Electricity Consumption MWh 2,870,997 2,760,611
Average Restaurant Electricity Consumption MWh 342 304
Direct (Scope 1) GHG Emissions tCO2e 114,720 135,615
Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions tCO2e 1,956,072 1,873,757
Average Restaurant Energy Indirect (Scope 2) 
GHG EmissionstCO2e 233 207
Total Water Consumption tons 27,602,012 24,579,253
Average Restaurant Water Consumption tons 3,284 2,710
Amount of Paper and Plastic Packaging 
Reductiontons 9,000+ 9,200+
Percentage of RSPO-Certified Palm Oil % 100 100
Total Number of Employees person / 400,000+
Number of Full-time Employees % / 34
Number of Part-time Employees % / 66
Number of Male Employees % / 36
Number of Female Employees % / 64
Number of Employees under 30 % / 60
Number of Employees 31~40 % / 23
Number of Employees 41~50 % / 15
Number of Employees over 50 % / 2
Employee Turnover Rate of Restaurant General 
Managers (RGMs)% / 9.2
Share of Women in Total Workforce % / 64
Share of Women in All Management Positions % / 60Key Performance Indicators
108 109
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Share of Women in Junior Management 
Positions% / 61
Share of Women in Top Management Positions % / 54
Share of Women in Management Positions in 
Revenue-Generating Functions% / 61
Share of Women in STEM-related Positions % / 15
Share of Female Employees between New 
Hire Employees% / 59
Share of Female Employees between 
Promotion Employees% / 62
Share of Female Employees between Turnover 
Employees% / 56
Mean Gender Pay Gap between Men and 
Women Employees% / <3
Media Gender Pay Gap between Men and 
Women Employees% / <3
Number of Cities with Angel Restaurants / / 23
Number of Angel Restaurants / / 24
Number of People with Disabilities Employed 
in Angel Restaurantsperson / 200+
Number of People with Disabilities Gained 
Employment Supportperson / 2,100+
Total Amount Spent on Training and 
DevelopmentRMB / 266,000,000
Average Amount Spent per FTE on Training 
and DevelopmentRMB / 1,308
Training and Development Hours in Total hours / 8,600,000
Average Hours per FTE of Training and 
Developmenthours / 42
Number of Full-time Employees Trained person / 36
Number of Part-time Employees Trained person / 8
Promotion Rate Across the Management Team % / 136,000
Promotion Rate among Office Employees % / 270,000
Share of Male Employees in Training Programs % / 36
Share of Female Employees in Training 
Programs% / 64
Annual Physical Examination Coverage of 
Restaurant Management Team and Office 
Employees% / 100
Health Certificate Coverage of Restaurant 
Employees% / 100
Lost-time Injury Frequency Rate for Employees n/million hours worked 1.08 1.34
Percentage of CSR Audited Critical Suppliers % 100 100
Percentage of Suppliers in China % 98.7 99.1PEOPLEIndicators Unit 2019 2020Key Performance Indicators GRI CONTENT INDEX
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
General 
DisclosuresIntroduction Chapter Page Note
GRI102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016        
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE    
102-1 Name of the Organization Overview P06
102-2Activities, Brands, Products, and 
ServicesOverview P06
102-3 Location of Headquarters Overview P06
102-4 Location of Operations Overview P06
102-5 Ownership and Legal Form Overview P06
102-6 Markets Served Overview P06
102-7 Scale of the Organization Overview P06
102-8Information on Employees, and 
Other WorkersOverview P06
102-9 Supply ChainBuild a Value Chain that Protects 
Food Safety
Practicing Responsible Sourcing 
and Collaborative Partnership to 
Promote Social ResponsibilitiesP24
P81
102-10Significant Changes to the 
Organization and Its Supply ChainOverview P06
102-11Precautionary Principle or 
ApproachCorporate Governance P10
102-12 External Initiatives Sustainability Management P12
102-13 Membership of AssociationsFOOD 
Actively Promote Industry 
DevelopmentP38
STRATEGY    
102-14Statement from Senior Decision-
MakerRemarks by YUM China CEO P02
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY    
102-16Values, Principles, Standards, and 
Norms of BehaviorCorporate Governance P10
GOVERNANCE    
102-18 Governance Structure Corporate Governance P10
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT    
102-40 List of Stakeholder Groups Stakeholder Engagement P16
102-41 Collective Bargaining AgreementsAccelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP62
102-42Identifying and Selecting 
StakeholdersStakeholder Engagement P16
102-43Approach to Stakeholder 
EngagementStakeholder Engagement P16
102-44 Key Topics and Concerns Raised Stakeholder Engagement P18
REPORTING PRACTICE    
102-45Entities Included in the 
Consolidated Financial StatementAbout this Report P04
102-46Defining Report Content and Topic 
BoundariesMateriality Assessment P18COMMUNITY
Employee Volunteer Time hours 1,500,000+ 1,500,000+
110 111
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020302-3 Energy IntensityENVIRONMENT 
Practicing Green Operations to Build 
Green RestaurantsP47
302-4 Reduction of Energy ConsumptionENVIRONMENT 
Practicing Green Operations to Build 
Green RestaurantsP47
302-5Reduction in Energy Requirements of 
Products and ServicesENVIRONMENT 
Practicing Green Operations to Build 
Green RestaurantsP48
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016    
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryENVIRONMENT P41
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsENVIRONMENT P42
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachSustainability Management P12
303-1Interactions with Water as a Shared 
ResourceENVIRONMENT 
Practicing Green Operations to Build 
Green RestaurantsP51
GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016    
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryENVIRONMENT P41
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsENVIRONMENT P42
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachSustainability Management P12
305-2 Indirect (Scope2) GHG EmissionsENVIRONMENT 
Honoring Environmental 
Commitments and Promoting 
Climate ActionP46
305-4 GHG Emissions IntensityENVIRONMENT 
Honoring Environmental 
Commitments and Promoting 
Climate ActionP46
GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016   
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryENVIRONMENT P41
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsENVIRONMENT P42
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachSustainability Management P12
306-2 Waste by Type and Disposal MethodENVIRONMENT 
Practicing Green Operations to Build 
Green RestaurantsP51
GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryENVIRONMENT P41
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsENVIRONMENT P42
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachSustainability Management P12
307-1Non-Compliance with Environmental 
Laws and Regulations-No major violations 
of environmental 
laws and 
regulations
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 / GRI103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryENVIRONMENT P54This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
102-47 List of Material Topics Materiality Assessment P18
102-48 Restatements of Information -No material 
restatements 
of information 
provided in 
previous reports
102-49 Changes in Reporting About this Report P04
102-50 Reporting Period About this Report P04
102-51 Date of Most Recent Report About this Report P04
102-52 Reporting Cycle  About this Report P04
102-53Contact Point for Questions Regarding 
the ReportAbout this Report P04
102-54Claims of Reporting in accordance 
with the GRI StandardsAbout this Report
GRI Content IndexP04
P110
102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index P110
102-56 External Assurance Assurance Report P116
ECONOMIC 
GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016   
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryPeople P60
Practicing Responsible Sourcing 
and Collaborative Partnership to 
Promote Social ResponsibilitiesP81
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsPeople P60
Practicing Responsible Sourcing 
and Collaborative Partnership to 
Promote Social ResponsibilitiesP81
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachSustainability Management P12
204-1Proportion of Spending on Local 
SuppliersPracticing Responsible Sourcing 
and Collaborative Partnership to 
Promote Social ResponsibilitiesP83
GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016    
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryBusiness Ethics P11
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsBusiness Ethics P11
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachBusiness Ethics P11
205-2Communication and Training 
About Anti-Corruption Policies and 
ProceduresBusiness Ethics P11
ENVIRONMENTAL    
GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and Its BoundaryENVIRONMENT P41
103-2The Management Approach and Its ComponentsENVIRONMENT P42
103-3Evaluation of the Management ApproachSustainability Management P12
301-1 Materials Used by Weight or VolumeENVIRONMENT Promoting Sustainable Packaging with Innovative Green DesignP56
GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016    
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryENVIRONMENT P41
302-1Energy Consumption within the 
OrganizationENVIRONMENT 
Practicing Green Operations to Build 
Green RestaurantsP47This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX
General 
DisclosuresIntroduction Chapter Page NoteGeneral 
DisclosuresIntroduction Chapter Page Note
112 113
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and Its BoundaryPeople P60
Accelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP62
103-2The Management Approach and Its ComponentsPeople P60
Accelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP62
103-3Evaluation of the Management ApproachSustainability Management P12
405-1Diversity of Governance Bodies and EmployeesAccelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP63
GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016    
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and Its BoundaryCommunity P85
103-2The Management Approach and Its ComponentsCommunity P87
103-3Evaluation of the Management ApproachSustainability Management P12
413-2Operations with Significant Actual and Potential Negative Impacts on Local CommunitiesCommunity  - No evidence of potential impacts on local community
GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and Its BoundaryPeople P60
Practicing Responsible Sourcing and Collaborative Partnership to Promote Social ResponsibilitiesP81
103-2The Management Approach and Its ComponentsPeople P60
Practicing Responsible Sourcing and Collaborative Partnership to Promote Social ResponsibilitiesP81
103-3Evaluation of the Management ApproachSustainability Management P12
414-1New Suppliers That Were Screened Using Social CriteriaPracticing Responsible Sourcing and Collaborative Partnership to Promote Social ResponsibilitiesP81
GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEAL TH AND SAFETY 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and Its BoundaryFOOD Build a Value Chain that Protect Food SafetyP22
103-2The Management Approach and Its ComponentsFOOD Build a Value Chain that Protect Food SafetyP22
103-3Evaluation of the Management ApproachSustainability Management P12
416-1Assessment of The Health and Safety Impacts of Product and Service CategoriesFOOD P26
GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016   
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and Its BoundaryBusiness Ethics P11
103-2The Management Approach and Its ComponentsCorporate Governance P10
103-3Evaluation of the Management ApproachCorporate Governance P10
419-1Non-Compliance with Laws and Regulations in the Social and Economic Area-No Major Violations of Laws and Regulations in the Social and Economy Area103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsENVIRONMENT P42
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachSustainability Management P12
308-1New Suppliers that Were Screened 
Using Environmental Criteria"ENVIRONMENT 
Partnering with Suppliers to Build a 
Sustainable Upstream Ecosystem"P54
GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryPeople P60
Accelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP62
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsPeople P60
Accelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP62
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachSustainability Management P12
401-1New Employee Hires and Employee 
TurnoverAccelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP62
401-2Benefits Provided to Full-Time 
Employees that Are Not Provided to 
Temporary or Part-Time EmployeesAccelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP72
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEAL TH AND SAFETY 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryPeople P60
Accelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP74
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsPeople P60
Accelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP74
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachSustainability Management P12
403-2Types of Injury and Rates of Injury, 
Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, and 
Absenteeism, and Number of Work-
Related FatalitiesAccelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP75
GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016   
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryPeople P60
Accelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP66
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsPeople P60
Accelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP67
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachSustainability Management P12
404-1Average Hours of Training Per Year Per 
EmployeeAccelerating Employee Growth to 
Achieve Company VisionP66
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016  This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX
General 
DisclosuresIntroduction Chapter Page NoteGeneral 
DisclosuresIntroduction Chapter Page Note
114 115
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020BASIS OF ASSURED DATA
1Direct (Scope 1) 
GHG EmissionsDirect (Scope 1) GHG Emissions of Yum China in 2020 were the direct (Scope1) GHG emissions generated by 
Yum China’s KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-owned and unconsolidated affiliates) in 2020. All 
the direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions are derived from installation, operation and disposal of refrigeration and 
air-conditioning equipment, which is calculated by using Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Equipment Tool 
issued by GHG Protocol. The type of refrigerant and original refrigerant charge of refrigeration equipment 
comes from the nameplate. The type of refrigerant of air-conditioning equipment comes from the 
nameplate, and the average restaurant original refrigerant charge of air-conditioning equipment is defined 
by Yum China based on the restaurant area and refrigerant charge. The Global Warming Potential (GWP) of 
refrigerant refers to the 100-year GWP values in the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change and 2017 American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers 
(ASHARE) Handbook – Fundamentals.
2Energy Indirect 
(Scope 2) GHG 
EmissionsEnergy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions of Yum China in 2020 were the energy indirect (Scope2) 
GHG emissions generated by Yum China’s KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-owned and 
unconsolidated affiliates) in 2020. All the energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions are derived from 
electricity consumption, which is calculated by multiplying each restaurant’s electricity consumption by 
the average carbon dioxide emission factors of regional power grid. The average carbon dioxide emission 
factors of regional power grid refer to the emission factor of 2012 in the “Average Carbon Dioxide Emission 
Factors of China's Regional Power Grids in 2011 and 2012” issued by the National Development and Reform 
Commission.
3Total Electricity 
ConsumptionTotal electricity consumption of Yum China in 2020 was the electricity consumed by Yum China’s KFC and 
Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-owned and unconsolidated affiliates) in 2020. Electricity consumption 
refers to the data on the restaurants’ electricity bills.
4Average 
Restaurant 
Electricity 
ConsumptionAverage restaurant electricity consumption of Yum China in 2020 was the average electricity consumption of 
Yum China’s KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-owned and unconsolidated affiliates) in 2020.
5Total Water 
ConsumptionTotal water consumption of Yum China in 2020 was the water consumed by Yum China’s KFC and Pizza 
Hut restaurants (both company-owned and unconsolidated affiliates) in 2020. Each restaurant's water 
consumption is calculated by dividing its water fee by the average water unit price of each province defined 
by Yum China. Water fee refers to the restaurants’ water bills. The average water unit price of each province is 
calculated based on the actual water unit price of different locations in the province.
6Average 
Restaurant
Water 
ConsumptionAverage restaurant water consumption of Yum China in 2020 was the average water consumption of Yum 
China’s KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-owned and unconsolidated affiliates) in 2020.
7Amount of 
Used Cooking 
Oil (UCO) 
Converted 
into Biodiesel 
in Chengdu 
Biodiesel 
ProjectAmount of UCO converted into biodiesel in Yum China Chengdu biodiesel project in 2020 was the amount 
of UCO converted into biodiesel in the biodiesel project, which was carried out in Yum China’s KFC and 
Pizza Hut restaurants in Chengdu in 2020. The amount of UCO converted into biodiesel refers to the data on 
receipts from UCO collectors.
8Percentage of 
RSPO-certified 
Palm OilPercentage of RSPO-certified palm oil of Yum China in 2020 was the percentage of RSPO-certified palm oil in 
all the purchased palm oil products of Yum China in 2020.
9Percentage of 
CSR Audited 
Critical 
SuppliersPercentage of CSR audited critical suppliers of Yum China in 2020 was the percentage of CSR audited critical 
suppliers in all the critical suppliers of Yum China in 2020. Yum China’s critical suppliers include Innovative 
Suppliers and Key Suppliers (excluding service suppliers, overseas suppliers, small procurement suppliers 
with annual procurement less than RMB 2 million yuan and headquarter suppliers).
10Share of 
Women in Total 
WorkforceShare of women in total workforce of Yum China in 2020 was the percentage of female employees out of all 
employees of Yum China at the end of 2020. The total number of employees refers to the number of full-time 
and part-time employees directly hired by Yum China at the end of 2020, including office staff and restaurant 
staff. The number of female employees refers to the fulltime and part-time female employees directly hired 
by Yum China at the end of 2020, including office staff and restaurant staff.
11Lost-time Injury 
Frequency Rate 
for EmployeesLost-time injury frequency rate for employees of Yum China in 2020 was the number of lost-time injuries 
per one million hours worked for employees of Yum China in 2020. The working hours are the total working 
hours of full-time and part-time employees directly hired by Yum China in 2020, including office staff and 
restaurant staff. The number of lost-time injuries is the number of injury leaves of full-time and part-time 
employees directly hired by Yum China in 2020, including office staff and restaurant staff.No.    Data Basis
116 117
FOOD ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE COMMUNITY APPENDIX YUMCYum China Sustainability Report 2020Ϥ഻ᇏݓ॥ܢႵཋ܄ඳ
www .yumchina.c om