Creating A Responsible EcosystemSustainability Report 2019
CONTENTS
PEOPLE
DEVELOPING FUTURE-READY CULTURE AND 
WORKFORCE FOR DIGITAL ERA
"DIGITAL " CULTURE POWERING EFFICIENCY
"DIGITAL " TALENT BUILDING EMPLOYABILITY
DIVERSIFIED PLATFORM ENABLING  
SELF-REALIZATION 
HEALTHCARE AND WELFARE  
ENHANCING ENGAGEMENT 61
64
66
71
73
COMMUNITY
CREATING FAR-REACHING AND  
POSITIVE SOCIAL IMPACT
SUPPORTING TARGETED POVERTY ALLEVIATION 
IN INNOVATIVE WAYS
LEVERAGING EDUCATION AND CULTURE TO 
STRENGTHEN SOCIAL COHESION
BEING A GOOD NEIGHBOR IN THE COMMUNITY 
BY ADDRESSING ITS NEEDS
ADVOCATING HEALTHY LIFESTYLES AND 
SPORTSMANSHIP77
80
83
88
91
APPENDIX
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
GRI CONTENT INDEX
ASSURANCE REPORT
BASIS OF ASSURED DATA94
95
101
10245
48
49
53
58ENVIRONMENT
PROMOTING GREEN TRANSITION TO ADDRESS 
ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES
SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT
ACTING ON CLIMATE CHANGE
PACKAGING AND WASTE STEWARDSHIP
A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAINREMARKS BY YUM CHINA CEO
ABOUT THIS REPORT
ABOUT US
OVERVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS
EXTERNAL RECOGNITION
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT
STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT4
6
7
9
12
13
14
15
16
19
20YUM CHINA
FOOD
THE JOURNEY TOWARDS A RELIABLE FOOD 
SAFETY ECOSYSTEM
A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO DELIVER  
SAFE AND HIGH QUALITY FOOD
BALANCED AND NUTRITIOUS MEALS
BUILDING AN INTELLIGENT SUPPLY CHAIN
ADDRESSING EMERGING INDUSTRY 
CHALLENGES
JOINING STAKEHOLDERS TO BUILD 
A HEALTHY CHINA23
26
32
36
38
40
3REMARKS BY YUM CHINA CEO
We live in an age of unprecedented opportunity 
underpinned by transformative innovations and 
increased global connectivity. However, this is not 
without pressing global challenges such as climate 
change and economic inequality. It is against this 
backdrop that I recently visited Davos where global 
leaders convened to discuss the role of stakeholders 
in a more cohesive and sustainable world. This 
sustainable development is aligned with our strategy 
to create a responsible ecosystem with stakeholders 
across the value chain. I am delighted to present our 
third annual sustainability report since we went public 
in 2016. In the following pages you will learn more 
about our sustainability strategy and developments. 
As China’s largest* restaurant company, we are 
committed to succeeding with our partners, 
consistently providing safe and nutritious food for 
customers, while promoting economic, social, and 
environmental sustainability. We believe that the 
commitment to sustainability is critical for our planet 
and our posterity and inextricably linked to the fate of 
the company and our contemporaries. The restaurant 
industry still sees greater potential in addressing the 
challenge, which calls for the joint effort of multiple 
stakeholder groups across the globe. Yum China, as 
the leader in the industry, is committed to this cause.
We firmly support the United Nations 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and this 
is reflected in our sustainability priorities. With over 
450,000 employees in 9,200 restaurants, and together 
with our customers and suppliers, we are meeting 
these challenges head on. Together, we work to 
promote sustainable development. 
Our vision is to become "The World's Most Innovative 
Pioneer In The Restaurant Industry" . The relentless 
pursuit of innovation is a strong impetus steering our 
business development and driving the implementation 
of sustainability. In 2019, our digital innovation has created sustainable value in three strategic focus areas - 
Food, Environment and Community.
Food safety and product variety remain the key area 
of our business development. In 2019, we continued 
to utilize artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things 
(IoT) and other digital technologies to build a more 
intelligent and efficient supply chain and strengthen 
food safety management. Relying on our strong 
menu innovation capabilities, our brands launched 
approximately 400 new and upgraded products 
last year, providing customers more delicious and 
nutritious choices. 
To address the global issues of climate change and 
plastic pollution, we adopt the Sustainability 4R 
Principles (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and Replace) 
and employ digital and intelligent technologies 
to continuously improve energy efficiency and 
reduce the carbon footprint of our restaurants. 
We have also been exploring more eco-friendly 
materials and designs to reduce the use of single-use 
packaging. Additionally, we have launched digital 
platforms to engage customers in public welfare and 
environmental protection activities. Notably, on top 
of the KFC Reusable Serving Basket program, our 
grassland revitalization initiative has engaged tens of 
thousands of customers. 
As a “Top Employer China” certified by the Top 
Employers Institute, we provide a working 
environment of “Fair, Care, Pride” and we are 
committed to cultivating innovative talents in the 
digital era. Through digital technologies, we empower 
employees in their pursuit of sustainable career 
development in a fast-changing world. In 2019, we 
made further progress in advancing gender equality, 
including endorsing the Women’s Empowerment 
Principles (WEPs), demonstrating our commitment to 
promoting gender equality in the workplace, industry 
and communities.
* In terms of system salesCOMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
4We have been actively exploring new ways of 
using digital technologies to fight poverty and 
have extended our poverty alleviation efforts from 
nutrition to education. In 2019, as part of our One 
Yuan Donation program, we offered online coding 
courses to school children in remote and less 
developed areas, improving their digital literacy and 
skills through distance learning. We have collaborated 
with the China Internet Development Foundation 
(CIDF), to advocate and inspire positive use of the 
internet and promote public interest. 
Entering 2020, the COVID-19 outbreak was declared 
a public health emergency of international concern. 
Yum China responded swiftly to protect the health 
of our employees, customers, and communities. 
Leveraging our digital capabilities, we pioneered 
contactless delivery and takeaway services as safe 
and desirable alternatives for customers to enjoy our 
meals. We have also provided free meals and financial 
support to the frontline workers combating this 
outbreak and have been working side by side with 
local communities to get through this challenging 
time. 
On our journey towards sustainable development, we 
will continue to work with our employees, customers, 
partners, industry associations and other stakeholders 
to bring about positive changes to society. 
We are committed to 
succeeding with our 
partners, consistently 
providing safe and nutritious 
food for customers, while 
promoting economic, 
social, and environmental 
sustainability. 
Joey Wat 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Yum China Holdings, Inc.
5Reporting Period
The reporting period covers January 1 to 
December 31, 2019, though some facts and 
figures may fall outside of the period if necessary.
Reporting Cycle
The Report is published annually. The most 
recent report was released in May 2019.
Reporting Scope
Yum China Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries and 
branches.
Basis of Preparation
The Report is prepared in accordance with the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability 
Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) issued by 
the Global Sustainability Standard Board (GSSB) 
and also refers to the rating requirements of the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), GB/T 
36000-2015 Guidance on Social Responsibility, 
The UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
and other relevant international and Chinese 
standards and guidelines for sustainable 
development.
Preparation Process 
1 Kick-off 
2 Materiality identification and data collection
3 Opinion solicitation and review
4 Report design and translation 
5 Data assurance by 3rd party
6 ReleaseData Source
Relevant information, data and cases are 
collected from Yum China. All members of the 
Yum China Leadership Team have reviewed and 
approved the Report.
Reference
“Yum China Holdings, Inc. ” in the Report is also 
referred to as, "Yum China" , "YUMC" , “We” and “the 
Company” .
Report Access and Feedback
The Report is available in Chinese and English, 
in print and electronic formats. If you have any 
suggestions, please contact us as follows:
 E-mail: CSR@yumchina.com
 Address: 6F-16F, YumChina Building,  
20 Tian Yao Qiao Road, Shanghai 200030, 
China 
Note
l	The data on energy consumption (page 49), 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (page 49), 
water consumption (page 51), and green 
building standards (page 52) in the Report 
includes data from all company-owned and 
unconsolidated affiliate restaurants of the KFC 
and Pizza Hut brands accounting for about 90% 
of the total number of Yum China’s restaurants. 
Other data and targets in this Report cover all 
business operations of Yum China.
l	Data and figures are reported in RMB with the 
exception of the Yum China stock price which is 
shown in USD.Yum China Holdings, Inc. (Yum China) publishes an annual Sustainability Report (“The Report”) 
to communicate with stakeholders about our management and practices in sustainable 
development. This is the third report released since 2018.ABOUT THIS REPORTCOMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
6ABOUT US
TO BE THE WORLD’S MOST INNOVATIVE 
PIONEER IN THE RESTAURANT INDUSTRY
A company based in China and well integrated into local communities,  
Yum China has witnessed tremendous economic success and rapid changes that 
have transformed the fabrics of Chinese society over the years. The Company aims 
to become “The World’s Most Innovative Pioneer In The Restaurant Industry” .  
To this end, we continue to develop products for Chinese customers, and explore 
innovative business models to help us maximize customer satisfaction and achieve 
sustainable growth.7OVERVIEW
Yum China is the largest restaurant company in China in terms 
of system sales, and the Company’s story in the country dates 
back to 1987. The Company has exclusive rights in Mainland 
China to operate KFC, China’s leading quick-service restaurant 
brand; Pizza Hut, the leading casual dining restaurant brand 
in China; and Taco Bell, a California-based restaurant chain 
serving innovative Mexican-inspired food. The Company also owns the East Dawning, Little Sheep, Huang Ji Huang and 
COFFii & JOY concepts outright.
As of the end of 2019, Yum China had 9,200 restaurants in 
over 1,300 cities and towns. More than 450,000 employees 
serve over 2 billion customers per year. 1,300+
Cities and towns  9,200
 
Restaurants
including 1,006 new stores 
opened in 2019450,000+
Employees
(data by the end of 2019)
COMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
9Growth Powered by Innovation
Yum China's vision is to become “The World's Most Innovative 
Pioneer In The Restaurant Industry” . Innovation and 
technology advancement, as a means to achieve operation 
and cost efficiency, extend the runway for growth and 
enhance customer experience, has always been the focus and 
key driver of Yum China's business and growth. Yum China's 
efforts in innovation include, among others, food innovation, 
value innovation, innovation with digitalization, delivery 
business and best in-store experience. In 2019, the Company 
opened a world-class innovation center in downtown 
Shanghai. The innovation center is an integrated research and 
development facility designed to enable the rapid roll-out of 
innovative products catering to local customers’ tastes.
At the heart of Yum China’s digital ecosystem are the KFC and 
Pizza Hut Super Apps, which constitute a powerful digital ecosystem for an immersive customer experience to engage 
with customers wherever they are, and extend beyond food 
to various unique fields and social responsibility activities.
Delivery is a key growth driver for Yum China, especially as 
we continue to expand into lower-tier cities. The platform’s 
AI-driven dispatching system and logistics support is 
transforming the relationship between customers, riders and 
restaurants.
Yum China will continue to invest in innovation, particularly 
in the areas of digitalization, technology and supply chain. 
This is expected to promote innovation-driven profitable 
growth, increase operational flexibility and agility and ensure 
first-class execution that consistently exceeds customer 
expectations.
Digital EcosystemOVERVIEW
DeliveryMobile Pre -order
Pizza Hut 
Member Program
Privilege ProgramBook KingdomE-gifting
V-gold & Merchandise
Online 
Queuing
Mobile 
Tableside order
KFC Member Program
YUMC Pay
 K-Music
K-Run
Super APPCOMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
101 Fully Automated Dessert Kiosk at KFC
2 Innovation Center in Shanghai
3 Pizza Hut Food Delivery Robot at the 2019 China International 
Import Expo4 KFC Food Truck at the 2019 World Internet of Things Convention
5 KFC Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Delivery Experiment at the 
2019 Asian Food Festival
6 Automatic Delivery WOW Bucket
1
32
4
5 6COMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
11SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS
We prioritize sustainability goals and commitments in the strategic pillars of  
Food, Environment and Community, and continuously track progress.
Material Topic Goal and Commitment Progress in 2019
GHG / Energy Efficiency- Reduce average restaurant energy 
consumption and GHG emissions by an 
additional 10% by 2025, as compared to 
the 2017 baselineReduced average restaurant energy 
consumption by  8.3%  and GHG 
emissions by 8.6%
Water Management- Reduce average restaurant water 
consumption by an additional 10% by 
2025, as compared to the 2017 baselineReduced average restaurant water 
consumption by 5.6%
Sustainable Packaging- All customer facing, plastic based 
packaging is recyclableUsed recyclable plastic materials for all 
newly developed plastic packaging items 
Green Building- All newly-built restaurants are in full 
compliance with the Yum China Green 
Building Standards100% Complete
Responsible Sourcing- Yum China CSR Audit covers all critical 
suppliers 100% Complete
Sustainable Sourcing- Only purchase RSPO-certified palm oil
- Refuse to purchase paper products 
from suppliers that knowingly cause 
deforestation100% Complete
Food Safety & Quality- Food safety & quality audit covers 100% of 
restaurants and logistics centers
- Food safety & quality training and testing 
covers 100% of restaurants' and logistics 
centers' employees100% Complete
Diversity & Equal 
Opportunity- No less than 50% of our total workforce is 
female
- Women are employed, trained, promoted, 
and retained at a rate of no less than 50%Female share of total workforce  
61.5%
Percentage of women in employees  
hired and trained 55.9%
Percentage of women in employees 
promoted 62.3%
Percentage of women in employee  
turnover 55.4%
Community Care- Our employees volunteer no less than 1.5 
million hours per year 100% CompleteCOMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
12EXTERNAL RECOGNITION
Yum China was certified as  a Top Employer China  
for the second consecutive year.
Yum China was one of the three Chinese companies selected for the  
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI)  
for the second consecutive year.
Yum China ranked among the Top 5 in the Restaurant and Leisure 
Industry in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) .
Yum China’s Investor Day was awarded the  
Greater China Best Investor Event (Large Cap)  
by IR Magazine.
Yum China was awarded the Restaurant Chain Innovation  
by China Chain Store and Franchise Association  
for its smart supply chain management.
Yum China became  
the First Chinese Restaurant Company in China to Receive 
International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) 
certification  for used cooking oil  that will be converted into sustainable biodiesel.
Yum China won the 
China Benefit Corporation .
Yum China was awarded  the  
Brand of the Y ear for the Catering Industry of ROI Awards   
at ROI Festival.
KFC’s grassland revitalization initiative was awarded the
Innovative Public Welfare Project of the Y ear .
KFC’s Fried Chicken "Pocket Store" won 
3 Gold Cannes Lions Awards .
Pizza Hut Grow Local Initiative won the
2019 China CSR Excellence Award  and
Global CSR Awards™  Best Community Program .
2019COMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
13CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Good corporate governance is a critical factor in achieving business success and in fulfilling the Board of Directors' 
responsiblities to stockholders. The business and affairs of the Company are managed under the direction of the Board to 
ensure that the Company's strategies and business practices are aligned with the interests of stockholders.
Director Independencel Independent Board Chairman
l 10 of 11 directors are independent
Director Elections and Attendancel Annual election of all directors
l Majority voting policy for elections of directors in uncontested elections
l Proxy access for director nominees by stockholders
l 95% director attendance at Board and committee meetings in 2019
Board Refreshment and Diversityl Directors with exper ience, qualifications and skills across a wide range of public and 
       private companies
l Directors reflect a diversity of gender, race and ethnicity
l Average director age of 56 as of March 27, 2020
l Independent and non-management directors may generally not stand for re-election  
       after age 75
Other Governance Practicesl Active stockholder engagement
l No shareholder rights plan (also known as a poison pill)
l Director and executive officer stock ownership policies
l Policy prohibiting hedging or other speculative trading of Company stock
l Policy regarding resignation if any director experiences a significant change in 
       professional roles and responsibilities
l Board access to senior management and independent advisorsHighlights of our corporate governance policies and practices are described below: COMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
14Yum China's website provides certian corporate governance information, including Corporate 
Governance Principles, Charters of each committee and Yum China's Code of Conduct. You can 
visit ir.yumchina.com, the Investor Relations website, and click the “Corporate Governance” 
option under “ABOUT YUM CHINA” to obtain the above corporate governance documents.
Please visit our Investor Relations website and refer to our 2020 Proxy Statement for  
a comprehensive overview and detailed information regarding the Company’s corporate 
governance.Risk Management
The Board of Directors maintains overall responsibility for overseeing the Company’s risk management framework. The Audit 
Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Food Safety Committee assist the Board with specific risk management.  
For more information regarding the Board’s role in risk oversight, please refer to our 2020 Proxy Statement.YUM CHINA 
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT
Yum China is committed to providing safe and nutritious food for customers and 
contributing to social and environmental sustainability. We spare no efforts to 
improve the Food We Eat, the Water We Drink, and the Air We Breath - to achieve 
our mission - “Let‘s Make Every Life Taste Beautiful” .
As China’s leading restaurant and NYSE-listed company, our business operations 
have significant economic, social and environmental impact. Therefore, the 
communities have high expectations for our ability to 
integrate business growth with sustainability. We are also 
aware of the profound responsibilities and opportunities 
brought by the global challenges including climate change 
and plastic pollution. Making sustainable development an 
integral part of the corporate strategy will not only help 
us identify opportunities for sustainable development, 
promote flagship products and business innovation, but 
also build mutually beneficial stakeholder relationships, 
thereby enhancing the Company’s long-term value.15STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE
Sustainability Strategy
Our sustainability strategy is effectively integrated with the 
company's long-term business growth strategy - "Sustainable 
Platform for Growth" . In 2017, we identified material issues 
and established the roadmap for improvement through a 
comprehensive materiality assessment. In 2018, we further 
developed the sustainability strategy and Environment, Social 
and Governance (ESG) disclosure methodology. In 2019, 
we revisited the material issues and the emerging industry 
challenges and linked our strategic action and priorities to 
the SDGs to support the UN 2030 Agenda. Representative 
stakeholders were engaged along the way. 
By having a solid corporate governance system and culture 
of Founders' Mentality, Yum China has prioritized material 
issues in the three strategic pillars of Environment, Food and 
Community. In the Environmental pillar, we aim to reduce our 
environmental footprint through 4R Principles (Reduce, Reuse, 
Recycle and Replace). In the Food pillar, we are committed to 
providing safe, healthy and delicious food for every customer 
to drive our sustainable growth. In the Community pillar, we 
pay attention to all stakeholders in the value chain, including 
our employees, customers and communities where our 9,200 
restaurants are located. We share our culture of "Fair, Care, 
Pride" , and strive to create a positive social impact for value 
chain partners and communities. 
We are committed to building Sustainable Restaurants, a 
Sustainable Supply Chain together with supplier partners, and 
a Sustainable Community together with stakeholders.
Corporate Governance / CultureSustainable Platform for GROWTH
Sustainable Community
l Public Awareness & Education l Poverty Alleviation
l Healthy Living Promotionl Care for Special Groups
l Community Carel Responsible Sourcing
l Sustainable Sourcing
 (Palm Oil and Fiber)l Supplier Food Safety & Quality
l Animal Welfare
l Use of Veterinary Drugs & 
 Antibiotics
l GMO, Pesticides & Food  
 Additivesl Labor Law & Regulation
l Occupational Health & SafetySustainable Supply ChainENVIRONMENT
We CARE about 
our environment and 
minimizing our footprintFOOD
We CARE about 
our customers with 
safe & nutritious foodsCOMMUNITY
We CARE about 
our community with 
 “Fair, Care and Pride”
l Waste Management
l Sustainable Packaging
l GHG / Energy Efficiency
l Water Management
l Green Buildingl Restaurant Food Safety &  
 Quality
l Nutritional Improvement
l Distribution Managementl Culture & Value
l Employee Relations &  
 Engagement
l People Capability First
l Business Ethics (CoC)
l Diversity & Equal OpportunitySustainable RestaurantsCOMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
16Priority Contribution to the SDGs
The SDGs are a collection of 17 global goals that balance 
the environmental, social and economic dimensions of 
sustainable development. The SDGs define the UN 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development, providing strategic 
framework for enterprises meeting the requirements of the 
SDGs and integrating sustainable development into their 
operations.In 2019, Yum China analyzed the correlation between our 
material issues and the SDGs from the strategic standpoint 
of Environment, Food and Community and identified how 
we could contribute to the SDGs on which we have the most 
significant impact. As a responsible company, Yum China will 
be further working towards developing our targets and actions 
designed to support the UN 2030 Agenda.
ENVIRONMENT
FOOD
COMMUNITYPEOPLEENVIRONMENT
FOOD
COMMUNITY
Corporate Governance / CultureSustainable Platform for GROWTHSTRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE
SDG  1 No Poverty
SDG  2 Zero Hunger
SDG  3 Good Health and Well-Being
SDG  4 Quality Education 
SDG  5 Gender Equality 
SDG  6 Clean Water and Sanitation 
SDG  7 Affordable and Clean Energy
 SDG  8 Decent Work and Economic 
 Growth 
SDG  9 Industry, Innovation and  
 Infrastructure 
SDG  10 Reduced Inequalities 
SDG  11 Sustainable Cities and  
 CommunitiesSDG  12 Responsible Consumption
 and Production
SDG  13 Climate Action
SDG  14 Life Below Water
SDG  15 Life On Land
SDG  16 Peace, Justice and Strong
 Institutions
SDG  17 Partnerships for the GoalsSustainable Development Goals (SDGs)COMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
17STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE
Management Structure and Mechanism
Since the company went public in 2016, Yum China has taken 
the opportunity to establish sustainability governance all the 
way from the Board of Directors to the frontline restaurant  
teams. The Company appoints a sustainability officer andbuilds a professional sustainability team. Sustainability has 
become an important part seamlessly integrated into Yum 
China's business strategy, and into the daily operations of all 
the functions.
The sustainability team collaborates with other functions and 
external entities to assess the internal and external challenges, 
to better understand the concerns of stakeholders, and to
align Yum China's sustainability strategy and roadmap with 
the SDGs. Externally, the sustainability team works on ESG 
ratings, sustainability reporting, non-financial performance 
disclosure, and respond to investors' queries. Internally, the 
sustainability team continuously identifies and mitigates 
sustainability risks, and drives related initiatives to ensure 
regulatory compliance.In 2019, in collaboration with other functions and 
stakeholders, Yum China's sustainability team pushed forward 
many key sustainability initiatives with significant progress 
achieved. The Yum China Sustainability Award was launched 
to recognize those individual(s) and team(s) who have made 
outstanding contributions to Yum China's sustainability 
development.Board of Directors l Oversee framework of the sustainability strategy and ESG outcomes
 Yum China Management Teaml Corporate Risk Assessment Roundtable
- Brands, supply chain, public affairs and other functions regularly assess 
      risks related to sustainability
- Develop strategies and control measures on risks identified
 Sustainability Teaml Develop and execute sustainability strategy and roadmap
l Improve sustainability performance / ESG ratings
l Build a sustainability culture
 Cross-functional Teamsl Carry out sustainability projects / initiatives
l Improve sustainability performance / ESG ratings
 Market Operation Teams  l Carry out sustainability projects / initiatives
l Customer and community care
Yum China Sustainability Management SystemCOMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
18STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Identifying and engaging stakeholders is an important driver of Yum China's sustainability development. We incorporate 
stakeholders’ expectations and focused areas into Yum China's sustainability development planning for performance 
improvement. Yum China has stakeholder engagement practices in place. Eight key stakeholder groups are identified with 
different engagement approaches accordingly.
Stakeholder Groups Engagement Approaches Expectations and Concerns
Franchisors, Shareholders and Investors
Yum! Brands, institutional investors, 
ESG rating agencies, etc.l Annual Shareholder Meetings
l Annual and Quarterly Reports
l Press Releases
l Investor Day and Conferences
l Emails and Telephone Communicationsl Returns on Investment
l Information Disclosure
l ESG Management and Performance
Government and Regulators
Food safety regulators, central and 
local government, etc.l Regular Conferences
l Seminars
l Written Replies to Public Inquiriesl Food Safety and Quality
l Environmental Compliance
l Contribution to the Development of 
     Healthy China
l Poverty Alleviation
l Industrial Development
l Support Vulnerable Groups
Customers
Organizations and individuals who 
purchase products from Yum Chinal Direct Communications in Restaurants
l Customer Satisfaction Surveys and  
     Feedbacks
l Customer Service Centers
l Customer Activities
l Social Media
l Online Servicel Safe, Reliable and Delicious Food
l Good Dining Experience and Food Service
Employees
Employees of Yum Chinal Employee Communication and  
     Feedback Platforms
l Employee Engagement Surveys
l RGM Conventions
l Founders' Dayl Fair Working Environment
l Capability Improvement and  
     Development Opportunities
l Welfare and Security
l Flexible Working Time
Supply Chain Partners 
Suppliers, logistics service providers, 
construction service providers, etc.l Business Review Meetings
l Management Team Dialogues
l Supplier Visits
l Supply Chain Partners Conventionsl Business Development
l Management Capability Building
l Fostering Development of the Industry
Franchisees
Yum China’s brand franchiseesl Business Review Meetings
l Annual Franchise Conventionsl Capability Building and Development 
     Support
l Brand Development
Associations and NGOs
Industry associations, institutes,  
universities and NGOsl Working Committees, Groups and  
     Meetings
l Seminars and Lectures
l Duties in Associationsl Fostering Development of the Industry
Communities
The communities where  Yum China 
operatesl Community Visits
l Regular Dialogues
l Volunteer Activitiesl Contribution to Communities
l Employee Volunteers
Stakeholder Engagement SystemCOMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
19MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
We prioritize our impact on the economy, society and environment amid a wide range of sustainability topics. We engage 
stakeholders throughout the materiality assessment process which helps determine the key topics under our pillars of Food, 
Environment, People and Community in our value chain to support long-term sustainability management.
Methodology
We worked with a third-party consulting firm to conduct 
rigorous materiality assessment process in 2017. In total, 418 
survey responses were gathered, and 33 interviews were 
conducted, which helped us prioritize 28 material issues. In 
2018, we revisited these identified material issues.In 2019, following the GRI Standards, we reviewed and 
analyzed the material issues identified in 2018 and conducted 
18 interviews with stakeholders.
Creating A Responsible EcosystemSustainability Report 2019
Step 1
Review
Step 3
PrioritizingStep 2
IdentiﬁcationStep 4
VeriﬁcationStep 1: Review
- Review of 2018 materiality assessment
- Peer brands’ benchmarking
- Stakeholder analysis
- Strategy and value chain analysis
Step 2: Identification
- Internal & external stakeholders’ engagement
 and interviews
- Identify and adjust material issues
Step 3: Prioritization
- Prioritize according to internal and external expectations
Step 4: Verification
- Finalize the revised material issuesCOMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
20Materiality Assessment Results
Through preliminary analysis, prioritization and verification, we have confirmed 28 key material issues in the aspects of food, 
environment, people and community, and clarified the content and boundary of each material issue. More details on these 
material issues can be found in the Report.MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
External Expectation20
2118232219
242826 252721175
6811093
416
15
14
13
17
12
Internal Expectation
FOOD
1 Nutritional Improvement
2 More Choices
3 Supplier Food Quality 
 and Safety
4 Restaurant Food Quality 
 and Safety
5 Animal Welfare
6 Responsible Sourcing
7 Genetically Modified  
 Food
8 Crisis Management
9 Antibiotics
10 Food Additives
11 Distribution  
 ManagementENVIRONMENT
12 Sustainable Sourcing
13 Sustainable Packaging
14 Energy Efficiency / GHG
15 Water Management
16 Waste Management
17 Green BuildingPEOPLE
18 Employee Relations and 
 Engagement
19 People Capability First
20 Occupational Health 
 and Safety
21 Diversity and Equal 
 Opportunity
22 Business Ethics (CoC)
23 Culture and ValueCOMMUNITY
24 Poverty Alleviation
25 Care for Special Groups
26 Healthy Life Advocacy
27 Community Care
28 Public Awareness and 
 EducationCOMMUNITY YUMC APPENDIX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE FOOD
21FOOD
THE JOURNEY TOWARDS  
A RELIABLE FOOD SAFETY ECOSYSTEM
Food safety and quality is the top priority of what we do here at Yum China. Since 
the Company’s first day in China, food safety and quality has been our primary 
focus as we strive to build customer trust in every bite. Apart from food safety and 
quality, nutrition and health has become one of our focuses in conjunction with 
people’s living standards. In support of national policies in this area, we advocate 
balanced and healthy diets and contribute to the Healthy China Initiative. We are 
passionate about facilitating cooperation and raising public awareness of food 
safety, nutrition and healthy living, so as to create a trustworthy food ecosystem.23Food Safety and Quality
- Food safety and quality audit covers 100% of restaurants and logistics centers
- Food safety and quality training and testing covers 100% of restaurants' and logistics centers' employees
Sustainability Background 
l Food safety attracts wide attention in China and internationally. The Food Safety Law strengthens government
 supervision as well as business responsibilities in food safety.
l The Outline of Healthy China 2030 Plan, National Nutrition Plan 2017-2030, Chinese Dietary Guideline (2016) and other 
policies and guidelines advocate balanced and nutritious diets and healthy lifestyle.
l Investors have higher expectations on information transparency regarding food quality, safety and nutrition.
l Customers have a growing demand for safe, healthy and nutritious food.
Contribution to the SDGs
High Relevance Medium Relevance
24Key Material Issues Across the Value Chain
Sustainable Supply Chain Sustainable Restaurants Sustainable Restaurants
Our Goal and CommitmentUpstream Suppliers
l Supplier Food
 Safety and Quality
l Emerging Industry
 ChallengesSuppliers  
l Supplier Food
 Safety and Quality
l Emerging Industry
 ChallengesLogistics  
l Distribution
 Management  Restaurants  
l Restaurant Food
 Safety and Quality
l Nutritional
 ImprovementCustomers 
l Restaurant Food
 Safety and Quality
l Nutritional
 Improvement
l Public Awareness
 and Education  OVERVIEWENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIXMateriality Topic Our Direction Progress in 2019 
Restaurant Food Safety 
and QualitySecure a standardized food safety 
system at every restaurantl Conducted 17,000+ food safety and quality audits 
        (i.e. Operational Excellence Checks) on the restaurants 
       across China
l Conducted 3,400+ product checks on main menu items
Supplier Food Safety 
and QualityEnsure suppliers and upstream suppliers 
compliance with relevant laws and 
regulations and the Company's food 
safety standardsl Conducted 370+ announced audits and 220+ 
       unannounced audits on suppliers
l Conducted sampling tests of 680 key materials provided 
       by 182 suppliers
Distribution 
Management Ensure supply chain efficiency, promote 
food safety and the building of an 
intelligent supply chainl Logistics centers adopted IoT to monitor real time
       product temperature in trucks during transportation
Nutritional 
ImprovementProvide diverse, delicious, nutritious 
and healthy food, and advocate healthy 
lifestyle and balanced diet
Diversify menus with more delicious and 
nutritious foodl Use of fruits and vegetables increased by 8%
l KFC launched a vegetarian burger
l Approximately 400 new and updated products were
       launched by our brands
Animal Welfare Constantly promote animal welfare in 
our supply chain and in the industryl Formulated Yum China Animal Welfare Policies
GMO, Pesticides, Food 
Additives, Veterinary 
Drugs and AntibioticsClosely monitor industry challenges, 
and develop effective response measure 
to promote the development of the 
industryl All domestic broiler suppliers will abandon the 
       use of growth-promoting antimicrobials according to 
       China regulatory requirements
Public Awareness and 
Education Promote industrial food safety 
management, support education and 
research in catering businesses, and 
build public awareness of food safety, 
nutrition and healthl Contributed to the formulation of 28 food safety related 
       standards
l Chinese Nutrition Society-Yum China Dietary Health 
       Foundation sponsored 7 projects
l Hosted 24 sessions of food safety awareness and 
       education, benefitting more than 90,000 peopleOur Management Approach 
Food Safety and 
Quality Holistic Governance and Oversight - We have established a comprehensive and holistic governance 
system that extends from the Yum China Food Safety Committee of the Board of Directors to various 
functions to oversee the execution of procedures, measures and standards to ensure food safety and 
compliance.
A Multi-tiered Food Safety Culture - We deem food safety an integral part of our corporate culture, 
and require employees and suppliers to follow this practice.
Full Value Chain Reinforcement - Food safety and quality management is embedded all the way from 
upstream suppliers, suppliers, logistics centers, restaurants to delivery.
Emerging Industry Challenges - We closely monitor emerging challenges such as veterinary drugs, 
pesticides, food additives and GMO. We have established Animal Welfare Policies, and developed 
strategies to drive development that benefits all industrial stakeholders.
Nutrition and HealthFood Innovation - Through the Innovation Center, we work with suppliers to develop nutritious and 
delicious food for customers.
Public Awareness and 
Education Contribution to Healthy China - We actively participate in industry standards setting, and support 
scientific research and programs on food safety and health.
25OUR PATHWAY ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIXA HOLISTIC APPROACH TO DELIVER SAFE AND HIGH-QUALITY FOOD  
Food safety and quality is the cornerstone of our corporate culture, and the very reason why we are so successful in winning 
customers. Given our hundreds of suppliers and their upstream farming and planting bases, 24 logistics centers and 9,200 
restaurants, any food safety risk will undermine our business and jeopardize customer trust that we value so greatly. 
Therefore, food safety and quality management is embedded in our value chain, involving all participants from upstreams, 
suppliers, logistics centers, restaurants to delivery. With a rigorous management process in place, we minimize the risks to 
food safety from farm to fork, and serve safe and high quality food to gain customers' trust in every bite.
A Comprehensive Governance System
Yum China has established a holistic internal governance 
system that extends from the Yum China Food Safety 
Committee of the Board of Directors to various functions 
and departments. This governance system provides 
comprehensive oversight and effective execution of various 
management systems, measures and standards to ensure 
food safety and compliance.
The Food Safety Committee assists the Board of Directors in 
its oversight of the Company’s practices, programs,  procedures and initiatives relating to food safety.  The Food 
Safety Office oversees food safety and compliance practices, 
training, advocacy, risks monitoring and early warning. The 
Quality Assurance function establishes a comprehensive 
multi-level management system covering all major aspects 
of our operations, including suppliers, logistics, restaurants 
and delivery. It conducts annual regular or random audits to 
ensure the system's adequacy and effectiveness and to drive 
continuous improvement.
 
Yum! Brands conducts an audit on Yum China every two 
years to ensure the effectiveness of the Company’s food 
safety management. In 2019, Yum China’s internal audit team 
reviewed the food safety and quality management system, 
and concluded that the system, covering the entire supply 
chain and restaurants, works effectively in continuous risk 
monitoring and crisis management. Placing a high value on preventive measure and end-to-end 
management, we closely monitor emerging trends and keep 
improving our risk protection system. In 2019, we monitored 
typical industry risks such as fungi-caused food poisoning, 
mycotoxin, back-of-house (BOH) unhygienic practice, foreign 
bodies in food, and recalls. We adopted a layered mechanism 
to ensure quick response, and conducted internal checks for 
continuous improvements. Board of Directors /
Food Safety Committee l The Board of Directors oversees the Company’s risk management 
      framework
Yum China Food Safety  
Advisory Committee
l Provided expert input 
     on food safety at Yum 
     China
l Met twice in 2019, 
     one for food safety  
     management of raw 
     materials and the other 
     for supply chain food 
     safety management 
     empowered by digital 
     technologiesl Food Safety Committee under the Board of Directors
o Established in 2017 and currently composed of three directors
o Assisting the Board of Directors in its oversight of the Company’s      
     practices, programs, procedures and initiatives relating to food safety
Yum China  
Management Team l Corporate Risk Assessment Roundtable
o Brand, Supply Chain, Public Affairs and other functions regularly 
     assess food safety and other risks
o Develop strategies and control measures, and drive the 
     implementation across the organization 
Supply Chain  
Management Team l Supply Chain Risk Assessment Meeting
o Quality Assurance, Food Safety, Procurement Management and  
     other functions
o Assess risk management in such areas as suppliers, logistics and 
     restaurants, and formulate preventive measures
Quality Assurance Teaml Strict food safety audits on suppliers, logistics centers and restaurants
l Improvement through capability building and coaching
Brand Restaurant  
Operations Teams l Restaurant duty manager inspections 
l District manager patrol inspections
Yum! Brands / 
Yum China Audit Teamsl Food safety / quality audit 
Our Food Safety Governance StructureENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
26A Multi-tiered Food Safety Culture
Food safety is our primary responsibility, which won’t be compromised by any factor including cost. We have been steadfastly 
delivering our commitments to food safety, and its values are highly emphasized in our corporate culture. 
Raising Employee Awareness of Food Safety 
We see to it that every employee identifies with the value of 
food safety and takes concrete action to deliver it. We require 
new recruits to read and sign Yum China Code of Conduct 
Confirmation Letter (applicable to office employees) which lists 
the basic principles and norms for food safety management, 
take the online course on food safety and understand that 
food safety remains our top priority. 
As restaurants play a key role in minimizing food safety 
risks and implementing safety requirements, we require 
new restaurant employees to read and sign the Employee 
Handbook Confirmation Letter and watch the video on 
employee compliance. We also provide orientation training, 
on-the-job training and Code of Conduct posters to 
increase employee awareness of food safety, and help them 
better understand and observe the Company’s food safety 
standards. Promoting a Culture of Food Safety  
among Suppliers 
Suppliers are Yum China’s important partners in safeguarding 
food safety, and a positive culture can help mitigate the risks 
to food safety. In the 2018 version of the Yum China Food 
Safety Audit, an additional requirement for our suppliers is to 
set up their own food safety culture. The Yum China Supplier 
Handbook released in 2019 again underscores the importance 
of the culture. We coach our suppliers to use scientific tools 
and methods to integrate the food safety culture into their 
respective food safety management process, and to create 
a working environment that encourages full participation in 
such practices.
Ensuring food safety and quality is an unshakable fundamental priority of Yum China. 
In the past three decades, we have built a comprehensive food safety and quality 
management system from corporate culture to governance implementation, covering 
the whole value chain from farm-to-fork. Innovation-driven, we explore cutting-edge 
technologies such as artificial intelligence and blockchain, to better ensure food safety.
- Danny Tan
 Chief Supply Chain OfficerOur Commitments to Food Safety
l Food safety and quality are the top priorities 
and define the corporate value of Yum China.
l Yum China strives to build an industry-
leading food safety management system to 
meet customer expectations of safety and 
quality.
l Yum China, as a highly responsible corporate 
citizen, aims to play a leading role in the 
industry.A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO DELIVER SAFE AND HIGH-QUALITY FOOD  
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
27A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO DELIVER SAFE AND HIGH-QUALITY FOOD  
Supply Chain Management
The food we provide to customers moves along a supply chain that involves such participants as suppliers or upstream suppliers 
and logistics service providers before it is processed and served at the restaurants. Each link of the chain is under rigorous control 
and checks in order to ensure trust in every bite.
Upstream Suppliers
We require our suppliers to put in place the upstream supplier 
approval and monitoring procedures to effectively identify 
and manage all the potential risks to food safety, authenticity, 
compliance of raw materials (including food packaging) and 
the quality of final products.
l   Management of Broiler Poultry Upstream Suppliers
Poultry is one of our major food ingredients. We have 
established an upstream breeding management system for 
poultry suppliers, requiring them to inspect and register 
farms in accordance with our standards. Only poultry from 
registered farms can be processed and released into the 
supply chain. 
Yum China poultry upstream supplier management initiatives:
- Institution 
 Establish the upstream supplier farming management 
system, covering farming, slaughtering, processing, self-
inspection and self-control, and invite veterinary drug 
experts to assess the compliance and scientific use of 
veterinary drugs by upstream suppliers, guide and urge 
suppliers for continuous improvement.
- Mechanism 
 o Conduct unannounced checks on upstream farms 
 and food safety inspections to verify the effect of 
 suppliers and upstream suppliers management .
 o Grade upstream broiler suppliers based on their 
 performance assessment results and thus drive  
 them to upgrade management.
- Information platform 
 Establish the electronic farm information system, register 
the bills of veterinary drugs and upstream farms, and 
realize dynamic management and real-time tracking.l  Promotion of Good Agricultural Practices
As the leading restaurant company in the country, Yum China 
has always been committed to providing safe and trustworthy 
farm products for customers. Upholding our vision for 
food safety, we also see it as our  duty to share advanced 
technologies and managerial experience with farmers, 
improve the management level of the whole supply chain of 
farm products and drive the progress of the farming industry. 
Agricultural safety starts from source. Yum China attaches 
great importance to planting farm management, and carries 
out strict management from the planting base selection, 
soil and water sources safety, planting technology, pesticide 
management, fertilizer use, good manufacturing practices 
and other aspects, effectively preventing the occurrence of 
food safety issues.
In 2018, we started to promote the implementation of Yum 
China GAP (Good Agricultural Practices) in our vegetable 
bases, and had 100% coverage in our butterhead lettuce 
bases by the end of 2019. In the future we will continue to 
extend it to other vegetable bases to achieve the goals of 
preventing food safety hazards, establishing sustainable 
agriculture and continuously improving farm management 
system.Upstream Suppliers 
l Traceability System
l Upstream Management 
 Requirements
l Farm Register System 
l Broiler Veterinary Drug 
 Registry and Expert 
 Review System
l Upstream Assessment 
 SystemSuppliers 
l Supplier Approval 
 System
l Material Specification
l Supplier Training
l Supplier Performance 
 Evaluation
l Food Safety and 
 Quality Audits
l Yum China Food Safety 
 Sampling TestsLogistics
l Incoming Checks
l Cold-chain 
 Management
l Pest Control
l Employee Training
l Food Safety and  
 Quality AuditsRestaurants / Delivery
l Operating Standard
l Employee Training
l Food Safety and  
 Quality Audits 
l Delivery Platform and 
 Riders Management 
l Food Protection Seals
Yum China’s Food Safety and Quality Management Across the Value Chain ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
28Suppliers 
We purchase a large number of food raw materials and 
packaging materials every year, and our selection and 
management of suppliers is directly related to the safety 
and quality of our products. We attach great importance to 
the traceability of the supply chain. By guiding suppliers to 
gradually manage their own upstream, we can not only fulfill 
our commitment to food safety from farm to fork, but also 
push the whole industry forward.
l Supplier Management 
Yum China boasts rigorous supplier approval procedures, 
including risk assessment, qualifications and compliance 
check, factory approval audit and checks for special 
categories of materials. In addition, we ensure routine 
supplier management through announced or unannounced 
audits, to verify whether the supplier’s food safety and quality 
management system continuously meets our requirements.
Our Quality Assurance function has comprehensive 
performance management system to regularly assess 
suppliers’ performance in food safety and quality. Based 
on the assessment results, we grade suppliers as T1, T2, 
and T3 with T1 being the best and T3 being in great need 
for improvement. We reward T1 suppliers with incentives, 
support T2 and T3 suppliers with improvement counseling, 
and eliminate those who fail to meet the requirements, 
thus driving suppliers to seek continuous improvement. For 
suppliers of raw materials with lower food safety risks (such as 
some ambient products and seasonings), we require them to 
obtain the Global Food Safety Initiatives certification and/or 
assessment for food safety and regulatory compliance.
Yum China signs with suppliers the raw material specification 
that complies with Chinese laws and regulations and 
Yum China’s requirements. In addition to suppliers’ in-
house testing, we have a regular inspection plan to verify 
the compliance of the supplier’s food materials with our 
standards. Every year, we conduct regular unannounced food 
safety tests on meats (including poultry), seafood, seasonings 
and other key materials. We take samples at supplier locations 
and entrust a third-party lab with testing and only those 
products in compliance with standards can be released into 
the Yum China supply chain.l Supplier’s Capability Building 
 We partner with our suppliers to provide safe and high-
quality food for customers, and share with them our 
advanced knowhow and experience in food safety and 
quality management. We also offer them long-term training 
programs on farming techniques, animal welfare, processing 
quality, process control and compliance to improve their 
technical know-how and management. 
2019 saw the 14th consecutive training sessions of our 
Supplier Tracking Assessment and Recognition (STAR) system. 
It covers  food safety risk assessment, hazard analysis and 
critical control point (HACCP), food safety culture, good 
manufacturing practices, foreign body and pest prevention 
and control, and production process control. The training 
outlines Yum China’s detailed requirements on food safety 
management and helps suppliers to improve management.
In 2019, we hosted several workshops to discuss how to build 
the food safety culture and improve category management, 
review cutting-edge research and technological advancement, 
share scientific research and best practices in all aspects, and 
improve management skills.
The training is very helpful, with technical terms and applicable conditions 
well explained. I wish there were more case studies and group activities. 
I also hope that the training will be held more often and open to more 
people, so as to bring home Yum China’s ideas and requirements about 
food safety and quality management to more workers in relevant posts.
- A STAR TraineeA HOLISTIC APPROACH TO DELIVER SAFE AND HIGH-QUALITY FOOD 
> In 2019
l The proportion of T1 suppliers reached 56% 
(by the end of 2019)
l Conducted 370+ food safety and quality announced 
audits and 220+ unannounced audits on suppliersENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
29Logistics Centers
Yum China has established an advanced logistics system, 
in-house management team and logistics network. Our 
nationwide logistics network included 24 logistics centers 
and 5 consolidation centers across China, providing efficient, 
safe and reliable logistics services for our restaurants through 
cohesive and effective management. 
An advanced and comprehensive cold chain design 
is employed at the logistics centers to ensure that the 
temperature of chillers, freezers, inbound and outbound 
deliveries meet the Company's standards at all times. IoT has 
enabled real-time cold chain management. We have started 
real-time monitoring of the product and ambient temperature 
in in-transit vehicles since June 2019 across the country, to 
ensure the temperature of frozen and refrigerated products 
is up to requirements upon delivery to restaurants. We also 
started warehouse freezer and refrigerator temperature 
monitoring to further enhance our food safety management. 
The warehouse management system (WMS) is in place to 
enable product e-tracking from suppliers, logistics centers 
and restaurants.Each of our logistics centers is staffed with a full-time quality 
assurance specialist responsible for inspecting storage 
facilities and the receipt, distribution, and unloading of goods. 
The logistics distribution system is audited as per the Logistics 
Center Audit.A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO DELIVER SAFE AND HIGH-QUALITY FOOD  
> In 2019
l Over 1,800 audits and routine inspections performed on 
logistics service (including warehouse and transportation) 
providers
IoT-enabled Transparent Cold-chain Management 
Scan to Explore Yum China Logistics*
* The data in the video was by July 2019.ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
307x24 
Platform Monitoring
Cold Storage in 
Logistics CentersTrunk Line 
DistributionLocal 
Delivery Supplier End User 
Whole Chain Traceability and Real-time Temperature Monitoring
Incident Push
Running Track
GPS
Cloud Services
Temperature 
(product and ambient temperature) Logistics Link
Delivery RouteRestaurant Operation and Delivery
Yum China conducts risk assessment before the launch of 
each new product, project, equipment or business. It provides 
early warnings about potential risks, and works to ensure 
the restaurants’ food safety and quality management system 
complies with Chinese laws and regulations. In addition, there 
is an annual restaurant review to identify potential food safety 
and quality risks at an early stage, take effective response 
measures, mitigate the risks and eliminate food safety 
hazards. The Quality Assurance function regularly conducts 
unannounced Operation Excellence Checks of all restaurants 
covering food safety, product quality and customer service. 
We also conduct regular product quality inspections on 
main menu items, and perform microbiological testing of 
restaurants’ utensils, cutlery, water, ice, and food to ensure 
they meet the required standards.
Yum China has established industry-leading restaurant 
operating standards and procedures to ensure that each 
restaurant implements consistent food safety standards 
and serves food that is consistent in quality and taste. The 
restaurant operating standards and procedures include food 
materials receipt, products and materials storage, shelf life 
management, thawing, cooking, personal hygiene, and tools 
and equipment disinfection. During business hours, the 
restaurant duty manager and the area manager check the execution of food safety and quality related standards and 
measures.
Yum China has established its own delivery service teams 
for KFC and Pizza Hut. Our delivery management program 
includes close monitoring of food preparation, delivery time, 
delivery food safety protection, and equipment cleaning and 
maintenance. We require all third-party delivery partners 
to sign and strictly implement the Letter of Commitment 
on the Food Safety and Quality Practice of Delivery Food, 
stipulating clear requirements for regulatory compliance, 
staff management, catering requirements, delivery facilities, 
equipment and strict management of third-party platforms. 
For example, all delivery food for all brands is sealed with 
tamper proof labels to ensure food safety throughout 
the delivery process. In 2019, we compiled the Yum China 
Guideline for Delivery Food Safety Management further 
specifying safety management measures.
A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO DELIVER SAFE AND HIGH-QUALITY FOOD  
> In 2019
l Conducted 17,000+ food safety and quality audits (i.e. 
Operational Excellence Checks) on the restaurants across 
China
l Conducted 3,400+ product checks on main menu items
l Microbiological testing of 83,000+ samplesENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
31Product Innovation 
Committed to becoming “The World’s Most Innovative 
Pioneer In The Restaurant Industry” , guided by customer 
requirements and healthy living concept, Yum China is driving 
food innovation from multiple angles, and thus provides 
diverse offerings for customers. The pursuit of innovation 
is embedded in every step of food innovation, from new 
product development to product launch and even after 
launch tracking and assessment. As to food and packaging 
innovation, our food innovation (FIT) teams and engineering 
teams leverage their rich experience and expertise to 
combine science, technology and art together to bring out 
the best effect. We have dedicated FIT teams developing new 
products for our brands such as KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell,  
East Dawning and Little Sheep. In addition to the exciting 
taste and more choices, balanced and nutritious meals are 
also created with the combination of a variety of ingredients 
such as meat, poultry, grains, dairy products, fruits and 
vegetables. FIT teams have developed hundreds of products 
every year by applying different cooking methods.More Product Choices
Guided by customer feedback and demands, we continuously 
enriched our menu offerings with main courses, snacks, 
beverages, salad and desserts to cover all day parts including 
breakfast, lunch, afternoon tea, supper, late-night snacks, and 
delivery. Our limited time offers throughout the year have 
further increased the variety of our offering, and brought the 
most popular food to customers.BALANCED AND NUTRITIOUS MEALS
As China is progressing towards the goals of Healthy China 2030 and witnessing continuous improvement in 
living standards, Chinese customers have developed a growing appetite for balanced and nutritious meals, 
while their taste, consumption behavior and culture are undergoing profound changes. As the leading 
restaurant company in the country, Yum China embraces state nutrition and health policies and responds 
actively to meet customers' demands. We have been striving to deliver a greater variety of balanced, nutritious 
food for our customers.
Innovative Diverse Offerings
Being an industry leader, Yum China is an innovative pioneer 
in exploring the fusion of different cuisines. We keep updating 
our menus to provide a great variety of delicious, nutritious 
food for patrons. > In 2019
l Approximately 400 new products launched by our brands
Yum China  
Food Innovation Strategy 
Disruptive Product Innovation
Expansion of New Product Categories
New Flavors of Signature Products
Disruptive Special Offers
Enriched Product Selections for Different Daypart
Customized Food Delivery and Ways of Serving
Festival Products
New BrandsENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
32Customized Food Delivery and Ways of Serving
Expansion of New 
Product CategoriesNew Flavors of Signature Products
Enriched Product Selections for Different DaypartFestival Products
Disruptive Product Innovation 
Disruptive Special Offers
New BrandsBALANCED AND NUTRITIOUS MEALSENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
33Less Salt, Less Sugar, Less Oil 
While trying to satisfy customers’ flavor and needs, the FIT 
team of each of our brands aggressively explores ways of 
using less salt, sugar and cooking oil 
in food preparation. Each new product 
must go through rounds of sensory 
test by internal specialists and panels 
before launch, to evaluate its saltiness, 
sweetness, texture and performance 
of other indicators. Some permanent 
products are also subject to sensory test every year, to keep 
track of the changes in customers’ preference and their 
feedback for product improvement. The results of strict 
sensory tests can help us find the most-accepted moderate 
taste and avoid launching products that are too salty, too 
sweet or too oily.
In particular, we advocate less intake of sugar and reduce the 
use of sugar by upgrading our products and formulation. For 
example, KFC offers no-added sugar milk and 13 sugar-free 
coffee products, and provides sugar packs for diners' own 
choices. In 2019, KFC launched a sugar-free and fiber-rich 
coke. Pizza Hut also reduced the use of sugar in its milk-tea 
products.
A Wide Variety of Ingredients to Make  
Well-Balanced Meals
We increase the use of grains, fruits 
and vegetables, beans and nuts to 
enrich menu choices and provide 
customers with balanced meals. 
For example, we use more than 50 
varieties of fruits and vegetables 
in restaurants to make burgers, 
pizzas, salads and beverages, such 
as butterhead lettuce, cucumber, potato, celery, green bell 
pepper, tomato, onion, pearl barley, radish, marrow squash, 
lemon, green kumquat, apple and kiwi, among others. Improving Cooking Methods 
We increase choices and nutrition through the application 
of multiple cooking methods in the preparation of food, 
including frying, roasting, boiling, sautéing and grilling. 
By combining modern food technologies with traditional 
cooking methods, we bring the best flavors and most 
consistent food quality to our customers.Efforts to Deliver Well-balanced, Nutritious Offerings
Nutrition and health are closely related. A well-balanced diet 
is the basic for supplying the nutrients that our body needs 
and safeguarding human health. As an influential player in the 
Chinese restaurant industry, Yum China assumes a vital role 
in supporting customers’ balanced diets, by providing more 
options with delicious taste.
KFC launched its first vegetarian burger – the 
cheese-stuffed mushroom burger in 2019. It was 
a limited time offer, with the familiar butterhead 
lettuce, tomato slices and salad dressing. 
Nutritious and delicious, it was a welcomed 
addition to our diverse offerings.KFC Vegetarian Burger
> In 2019
l Purchased more than 52,000 tons of fruits and vegetables, 
up by 8% from 2018
BALANCED AND NUTRITIOUS MEALSENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
34Care on Kids’ Meal
The Nutrition Guidelines for Meals Offered by the Restaurant 
Industry to School-Age Children (referred to below as “Nutrition 
Guidelines”), released by the Chinese Nutrition Society (CNS) 
in July 2017, specify that children’s meals should include 
an appropriate amount of calories and balanced nutrients, 
and take food and nutrients beneficial for children’s health 
and growth with less oil and less salt. The varieties of food, 
including grains, vegetables, fruits, meat-based foods, eggs 
and milk are also required.Yum China attaches great importance to the nutrition and 
health of children in China and is committed to providing 
children with balanced food that tastes delicious and is 
also healthy and nutritious. KFC has introduced Kid’s Meals 
that comply with these Nutrition Principles. KFC Kid’s Meals 
include a chicken and ham panini, sweet corn sticks and milk.BALANCED AND NUTRITIOUS MEALS
Kid’s Meals by KFC  
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
35BUILDING AN INTELLIGENT SUPPLY CHAIN
Yum China builds our core competitive advantage on a smart, efficient and agile supply chain, which is the 
foundation and key to the innovative, safe and high-quality product offering to our customers. The restaurant 
industry in China has embarked upon a new era with a market size worth 4 trillion RMB; it is constantly reshaped 
by emerging opportunities and challenges. In response, Yum China embraces digitization as one of our core 
strategies, leapfrogs via innovative technology, builds a world-class supply chain, leads the industry, and  
realizes the long-term sustainable growth.
A Supply Chain Led by Digitalization
Upholding our vision, we ensure efficiency and agility of the 
entire supply chain through technologies and innovation, e.g. 
AI, IoT and digitalization of food safety management, to build 
an intelligent supply chain. We have built 12 independent e-modules to manage different aspects of the supply chain. 
On top of that, we are in the process of building a data 
center to access every module of the supply chain for data 
integration and lean management.
E-QA
Electronic Food Safety and Quality Management Platform
In 2013, Yum China developed the plan for the industry’s first 
electronic food safety and quality management platform for 
suppliers, logistics centers and restaurants. Since the launch 
of the system in 2015, we have expanded the management 
module every year to include supplier audit, compliance 
check of food additives used by suppliers, raw material 
specification, supplier performance assessment, product 
quality non-conformity, restaurant / logistics center audit 
and performance assessment. In 2019, we added the module 
of non-food materials and their supply management to 
realize the full digitalization of our food safety and quality 
management system.
E-BOM
Electronic Bill of Material Management 
The industry leading E-BOM was launched in December 
2019 to enable digital management of product formulation 
and improved communication across functions of the whole 
supply chain. E-BOM and E-SP together support product 
innovation and quickly respond to customers’ needs through 
data capturing and analyses of product sales, nutrients and 
other attributes. 12 E-Modules of 
Yum China’s Supply Chain 
E-QA
Electronic Food Safety 
and Quality Management 
Platform
E-Farm
Electronic Farm 
ManagementE-Contract
Electronic Contract 
E-SP  
Electronic Sourcing 
Planning
JDE-ERP
Enterprise Resource  
Planning  
E-Procurement
Electronic Procurement TMS
Transportation  
Management System 
WMS
Warehouse Management 
System E-BOM
Electronic Bill of  
Material Management 
E-Nutrition
Electronic Nutrition  
Data Management 
E-Engineering
Electronic Engineering 
Management
E-Learning
Online Training Platform
In September 2019, a world-class sorting system was 
launched in our Kunshan Support Center (KSSC). It 
covers storage and delivery of smallwares, uniforms, 
marketing and promotional items, storage and trunk 
line transportation in bulk, and e-commerce related 
logistics service. The automated sorting system enables 
10 times faster operation, which enhances the efficiency 
of logistics capacity for e-commerce business.Kunshan Support Center
Automated Intelligent Sorting System in KSSCENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
36Creating Value with Suppliers
We regard suppliers as our closest allies and sustain our 
partnerships through joint contribution, shared benefits 
and mutual growth. The ability to innovate is rooted in 
our selection and assessment of suppliers. The wisdom of 
innovative suppliers is the backbone to our own innovation. 
In order to develop creative and popular products, Yum China 
invites suppliers with outstanding performance in quality 
management to participate in the new product innovation 
process. Suppliers participating in new product innovation  
are divided into 2 categories: those who are innovative and capable of providing comprehensive solutions are 
the primary suppliers and those who support the primary 
suppliers to innovate new products are the cooperating 
suppliers. We now have about 50 such suppliers, with whom 
we share innovation methods, processes and industry 
insights, whose innovation ability we assess on a regular 
basis, and with whom we grow and innovate together. We 
highly appreciate communication and cooperation with the 
suppliers. In addition to the regular food materials supplier 
convention, we hosted the first logistics service supplier 
convention in 2019. BUILDING AN INTELLIGENT SUPPLY CHAIN
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
37ADDRESSING EMERGING INDUSTRY CHALLENGES
Yum China continuously monitors changes in policies, laws and regulations affecting the food industry 
and food safety issues in the supply chain. We pay close attention to emerging industry challenges such 
as animal welfare, food-borne diseases, pesticides and veterinary drug management, food additives and 
GMO. We calibrate our control priorities based on the urgency and importance of food safety related risks.
Animal Welfare
Proper animal welfare ensures the healthy growth of animals 
and promotes high-quality and sustainable development of 
agriculture and animal husbandry so that premium animal 
products are provided for human beings. It is part of our 
social responsibility to improve the health and welfare of all 
animals in our supply chain. In 2019, we developed the Yum 
China Animal Welfare Policies in compliance with existing laws 
and regulations and in light of China’s current situation and 
the industry’s characteristics. The policy establishes a series of 
animal welfare standards for our suppliers of farmed animal 
protein, and regulates their behavior from animal farming to 
slaughtering.
Since 2017, Yum China has launched animal welfare audits for 
broiler chicken farming and slaughtering. We will, as always, 
strive to create a collaborative platform that brings together 
experts, industry associations, farming and processing 
enterprises, and upstream and downstream industry experts, 
and actively explore ways to improve animal welfare, promote 
success experience and best practices, and drive continuous 
improvement in animal welfare management across the 
industry.
Food-Borne Diseases
The food industry has long been exploring ways to prevent 
food-borne diseases. Priority is given to preventive food 
safety plans, such as the Environmental Pathogen Program, 
to monitor microbiological hazards in the food production 
environment. Hazard analysis is shifting the focus from 
finished product testing to proactive environment 
monitoring. Environment Pathogen Programs are an early 
warning system for microbiological hazards.In 2019, Yum China revised the Environmental Pathogen 
Monitoring Standard to guide and regulate suppliers in 
formulating an effective environmental pathogen monitoring 
plan to verify the effectiveness of the sanitation standard 
operating procedures and other preventative controls, and to 
help prevent microbial contaminants from entering the final 
products.
Yum China Has Developed A Series of Animal Welfare Policies, Including Poultry, Livestock and Aquaculture.
We Promote Proper Animal Welfare by 
Honoring the Globally Recognized Five 
Freedoms:
i. Freedom from hunger, thirst and malnutrition 
ii. Freedom from fear and distress  
iii. Freedom from physical and thermal discomfort  
iv. Freedom from pain, injury and disease 
v. Freedom to express normal patterns of 
behavior ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
38Veterinary Drug Management
Yum China requires farmers, producers, and veterinarians to 
use veterinary antimicrobials responsibly to ensure the well-
being of human beings and animals. We have adopted a series 
of measures to manage suppliers on regulatory compliance 
and judicious use of drugs in the breeding of livestock, 
poultry and aquatic products. Veterinary antimicrobials are 
important agricultural means for the prevention, control and 
treatment of animal diseases. Judicious and responsible use 
is in line with Yum China’s long-term commitment to animal 
health and welfare. We adopt existing best practices and 
introduce new technologies to reduce, or if possible, eliminate 
broilers’ need for antimicrobials treatment. Yum China has 
pioneered measures to promote scientific broiler farming and 
standardized use of veterinary drugs.
l  Scientific Use 
- We use existing best practices and explore new 
technologies to reduce and eliminate, if possible, the 
need for antimicrobials treatment in broilers.
- We have released Technical Manual on Broiler Farming and 
Guide to the Use of Veterinary Drugs to promote scientific 
farming by suppliers.
l  Growth-Promoting Antimicrobials 
- From 2016, we analyzed the development trend of 
antimicrobials used in domestic broiler breeding 
industry, and took the lead in planning the gradual 
removal of growth-promoting agents that are important 
to human beings.
- Our domestic broiler suppliers will complete the 
national plan 100% ahead of schedule in line with 
the requirements issued by the National Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Affairs in 2019 for the gradual 
cessation of the use of growth-promoting antimicrobials 
in feed.
l  Antimicrobials  
- To protect human health and respond to the National 
Action Plan for the Suppression of Antimicrobial Resistance 
2016-2020 and The National Action Plan on Animal Origin 
Antimicrobial Resistance (2017-2020) by the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Affairs, we work with industry 
experts, scientists and suppliers to develop the control 
plan to gradually reduce the use of antimicrobials in 
poultry breeding.
On the premise of national conditions and regulatory 
compliance, Yum China promotes scientific breeding, 
judicious use, and best practice as alternatives for 
antimicrobials use. We provide medicine reduction plan for 
domestic broiler suppliers annually and will continue to make 
progress in the coming years.Pesticide Management
Yum China places the management of pesticide residue 
amongst the priorities of food safety. 
Together with suppliers, we keep exploring 
better management practices and 
promote Yum China Good Agricultural 
Practices (GAP) at upstream vegetable 
bases.  We have adopted rigorous control 
measures concerning base selection, soil 
and water safety, planting technology, 
pesticide management, fertilizer use, 
and good practices operations. We also 
set up a strict monitoring system of pesticide residue and 
test regularly to ensure compliance with national laws and 
regulations.
Food Additives 
Yum China attaches great importance to suppliers’ use of food 
additives and has taken the following measures in this regard.
l Suppliers must provide proof of their compliance with 
national standards on food additives, to strengthen their 
compliance awareness and internal check mechanism.
l We promptly notify suppliers the latest food-governing laws, 
regulations and standards for their compliance.
l We conduct sampling tests on additives in food materials to 
verify compliance.
GMO
Yum China respects and supports Chinese government 
policy on agricultural development, and abides by the 
national laws and regulations on safety assessment, approval 
and administration of genetically modified agriculture 
products. We continue to monitor the latest developments of 
international research on GMO biology and food, follow China 
related laws and regulations, and require our raw material 
suppliers to be fully compliant.
肉鸡养殖技术手册
2017年6月
—— 第二版 ——
百胜中国
百胜中国
Yum China
www.yumchina.com
版权ḡ2017,百胜咨询（上海）有限公司
Copyright©2017 by
YUM! RESTAURANTS CONSULTING
(SHANGHAI) CO., LTD
版权所有，翻印必究
肉鸡养殖兽药使用
管理指南
2017年6月
—— 第二版 ——
百胜中国
百胜中国
Yum China
www.yumchina.com
版权ḡ2017,百胜咨询（上海）有限公司
Copyright©2017 by
YUM! RESTAURANTS CONSULTING
(SHANGHAI) CO., LTD
版权所有，翻印必究ADDRESSING EMERGING INDUSTRY CHALLENGESENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
39As a leader of the Chinese restaurant industry, it is the responsibility and duty of Yum China to promote joint 
social governance of food safety and elevate public awareness of health. We work closely with the regulators, 
industry associations, and academic community to drive the development of the food industry and ensure food 
safety. At the same time, we also play an important role in food safety advocacy and education programs.
Yum China Coordinates Stakeholders to Drive the 
Development of the Food Industry 
l Assume Roles in Industry Associations
- Provide professional opinions on laws and regulations 
and promote the rationalization of regulations
- Conduct in-depth research on emerging challenges 
in the industry, explore scientific facts, support and 
promote science popularization, and properly guide 
customers and media
- Actively mobilize suppliers to jointly promote the 
scientific and orderly development of the animal farming 
industry
l Host and Attend Industry Meetings 
- Share Yum China’s mature and innovative supplier 
management experience in several large international 
and industry exchange meetings
- Host the Expert Meeting of the Expert Advisory 
Committee on Food Safety where experts from various 
fields such as food safety, microorganisms and pollutants, 
animal husbandry and agriculture shared the experience 
of food safety management at home and abroad and the 
latest research findings, etc. 
l Contribute to the Development of Industry Standards
- Actively contribute to food laws and regulations and food 
safety standards that are inviting public comment based 
on the industry’s reality and corporate management 
experience
- Support industry associations in formulating group 
animal welfare standards for broilers and layers, and 
improve the management level of the whole industryYum China is an active and important member of a dozen 
influential industry organizations, including the Chinese 
Institute of Food Science and Technology, China Food 
Information Center, China Cuisine Association, China Chain-
Store & Franchise Association and Shanghai Food Safety 
Federation. We actively respond to and support these 
organizations’ food safety work, take the lead in formulating 
major industry standards, and ensure that they are well 
understood and implemented across the industry. Our role 
in promoting the healthy development of the restaurant 
industry is recognized and awarded. We hope to promote the 
common development of the industry and improve its overall 
management level by sharing our innovation concepts and 
management experience.JOINING STAKEHOLDERS TO BUILD A HEALTHY CHINA
Facilitating Industry-wide Development  
and Joint Social Governance 
Food safety requires joint social governance. For years, Yum 
China has been active in cooperation and engagement with 
regulators, industry associations, food research institutes 
and suppliers, to jointly enhance the food safety and quality 
management level and the awareness of integrity and 
compliance across the industry, and to jointly respond to food 
safety challenges. > In 2019
l Provided suggestions on the formulation of 28 standards
l The Food Safety Advisory Committee had convened 28 
expert meetings since its inception in 2006, where over 
200 special reports were shared.ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
40Supporting Research on Dietary Health
Academic and research institutions play an important role 
in building a healthy China, and to support their work in 
dietary nutrition and health, we jointly set up a dietary health 
foundation with the Chinese Nutrition Society. The CNS-Yum 
China Dietary Health Foundation, dedicated to the research 
on dietary health and nutrition, was transformed from the 
original KFC China Health Foundation initiated in 2007. It 
is so far the largest and most influential purpose-specific 
research foundation in China's restaurant industry, and also 
a strong supporter of academic subject development and 
technological innovation.In 2019, the Foundation reviewed a total of 60 applications 
with preference given to healthy restaurant projects and 
technological innovation for reducing the use of salt, sugar 
and oil in the food industry. Among them, seven projects 
filed by such applicants as the Chinese Center for Disease 
Prevention and Control and China Agricultural University 
passed the expert review and won the funding.
A balanced diet is the basis for health. The goal and requirements of a balanced diet and 
the nutrition science is the fertile soil to nurture a healthy nation. Thanks to Yum China’s 
unremitting efforts in this field, the CNS-Yum China Dietary Health Foundation will 
specialize in the research of nutrition science and play a key role in nudging people to have 
a balanced diet and live a healthy life.
- Prof. Y ang Yuexin  
President of Chinese Nutrition Society
In the future, we will continue to rely on the strong academic influence of Chinese Nutrition 
Society and other institutions and professional advice from experts, and apply our 
experience accumulated over the years to do our part in promoting healthy diet for the 
Chinese people.
- Alice Wang  
Chief Public Affairs Officer of Yum China
CNS-Yum China Dietary Health Foundation Annual Meeting & 12th Dietary Health Symposium> By the end of 2019
l The Foundation had sponsored over 70 projects with more 
than 18 million yuan.JOINING STAKEHOLDERS TO BUILD A HEALTHY CHINAENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
41Food Safety Education Among Y oung People
The Yum China “Hand in Hand towards the Future” education 
campaign for the young on food safety, nutrition and health 
is an extension of the original national campaign promoting 
national youth health and safety on school campuses and 
in communities. It has launched over 400 advocacy and 
education activities since 2016. In 2018, Yum China was 
recognized as the “National Youth Food Safety Education 
Experience Center” . In 2019 we launched a series of science 
outreach activities in schools and communities in ten cities 
including Quanzhou, Yantai, Wenzhou and Shenyang. We 
also remodeled 14 KFC stores to host science popularization 
activities regularly, including store visits, science lectures, 
interactive games and virtual reality (VR) activities, thus to 
disseminate knowledge about food safety, nutrition and 
health. Science Popularization on Food Safety,  
Nutrition and Health
Building public awareness of food safety, nutrition and other 
health issues requires long-term and unremitting efforts 
from all walks of life. Deeply-rooted in China, Yum China 
has always considered it its duty to promote health literacy 
and communicate the knowledge with the public via its 
restaurants.
Food safety is vital to the health of each and every 
one of us, and requires joint efforts from all sectors. 
We look forward to seeing more and more enterprises 
like Yum China, in addition to having solid food 
safety management and control, actively play up 
their strengths to promote health literacy and thus 
contribute to the healthy growth of young people.
- An official from the Market Regulation Bureau
Food safety education should start from a young age 
to arm children with related knowledge and skills. 
Compared with traditional means of education, KFC’s 
picture booklet is more appealing for children.
- A Parent Whose Kid Participated  
in the Food Safety Science Popularization Event> In 2019
l 14 KFC stores remodeled as experience spaces for food 
safety, nutrition and health education for young people
l 243 food safety themed activities launched, benefitting an 
audience of about 90,000 personsJOINING STAKEHOLDERS TO BUILD A HEALTHY CHINA
Watching the Growth of Broilers 
 With the Help of 
VR Device 
KFC  Store Visits
Little Guides of 
KFC Food Safety 
 Knowledge Tours 
Learning KFC ’s Illustrated Booklet 
 on Food Safety
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
42To promote the National Science Popularization Day in 
September 2019, we collaborated with the Chinese Institute 
of Food Science and Technology and distributed more than 40 
million tray mats themed on food safety and healthy eating in 
KFC stores in more than 1,300 cities and towns, to help raise 
public awareness and knowledge.Knowledge Competitions for College Students
In 2019, the YUMC Cup for Food Safety and Nutritional Health 
Knowledge Competition, originally based in Hangzhou, 
went national and landed in not only Hangzhou, but 
also Suzhou, Wuxi, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Kunming and 
Lanzhou, attracting over 5,000 contestants from over 30 
institutions of higher education. The competitions took 
such forms as intraschool challenge contests, new media 
project competitions, and online competitions on Alipay, and 
launched a special webpage to engage with Internet users, 
attracting over three million visits and responses per day. The 
event was also widely discussed and circulated on Weibo and 
other social media platforms.
 
The YUMC Cup adds fun to formal school learning. 
Many of its topics are very relevant to our daily life, and 
very meaningful. I hope our team will win again this 
year.
- A Contestant
The inter-school competition is a high-level event of 
academic exchange. It is of great help to students’ 
learning by offering them an opportunity to apply their 
academic knowledge, as well as a bigger picture of 
the current food industry. The experience will be very 
helpful to their future career development.
- Prof. Xia Daozong from Zhejiang Chinese Medical 
University, a Member of the Expert Panel
YUMC Cup for Food Safety and Nutritional 
Health Knowledge Competition (Zhejiang)
Raising Public Awareness of Nutrition and Health
The National Nutrition Week is a nutrition awareness 
campaign jointly launched by the Chinese Nutrition Society 
and the National Institute for Nutrition and Health under 
the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, to 
popularize the nutrition and health-related knowledge. Yum 
China has supported the initiative for four consecutive years 
from 2016 to 2019. The 2019 National Nutrition Week put 
forward the slogans “Nutrition for All, Moderate Prosperity 
in All Respects” and “Nutrition Comes First in Building a 
Healthy China” , and the theme “A Balanced Diet with Daily 
Servings of Vegetables and Fruits: Health for Everyone” . 
During the campaign, we designed and provided thematic 
tray mats in more than 6,000 KFC stores, with a focus on 
“balanced diet and exercises” and “balanced and nutritious 
meals” , to raise public awareness of healthy diet. Meanwhile, 
in partnership with the Community Nutrition and Health 
Management Branch of Chinese Nutrition Society, Beijing 
Dietetic Association and “Media Tea Party” – a WeChat 
account of Chinese Industry Paper Association, we conducted 
a questionnaire survey on journalists and released the 
Investigation Report on the Healthy Lifestyle for Journalists. 
Based on data analysis results, we advise journalists on how 
to have a science-based diet and live a healthy lifestyle, in the 
hope of spreading scientific knowledge on health matter and 
promoting a healthy lifestyle with the help of the media.
KFC  Tray Mat Specially Designed for the National Nutrition Week > In 2019
l The competition attracted over 5,000 contestants from 
more than 30 universities.
Tray Mat Featuring 2019 Popular Science Day
JOINING STAKEHOLDERS TO BUILD A HEALTHY CHINAENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
43ENVIRONMENT
PROMOTING GREEN TRANSITION TO  
ADDRESS ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES
Yum China’s restaurants consume a lot of resources in the daily operation,
inevitably generating a great deal of GHG emissions and waste. In the face of
increasingly severe environmental challenges such as climate change and plastic
pollution, we strive to reduce the environmental impact of our business activities
and incorporate sustainability into day-to-day operations. We comply with laws and 
regulations and actively respond to the government's environmental regulatory 
call on plastics and waste management. We collaborate with supply chain 
partners to pursue a more sustainable business model, and with customers and 
communities to translate sustainability challenges into opportunities.45OVERVIEW
Sustainable Supply Chain Sustainable Restaurants Sustainable Community
Upstream Suppliers
l Sustainable 
 Sourcing
l Responsible   
 SourcingSuppliers  
l Sustainable 
 Sourcing
l Responsible   
 SourcingLogistics  
l GHG /
 Energy Efficiency
l Sustainable 
 Packaging  Restaurants  
l GHG / 
 Energy Efficiency
l Sustainable 
 Packaging 
l Waste Management
l Water Management
l Green BuildingCustomers 
l Public Awareness 
 and Education  Key Material Issues Across the Value Chain
1 GHG / Energy Efficiency
Reduce average restaurant energy consumption and 
GHG emissions by an additional 10% by 2025, as 
compared to the 2017 baseline 
2 Water Management
Reduce average restaurant water consumption by 
an additional 10% by 2025, as compared to the 2017 
baseline
3 Sustainable Packaging
All customer facing, plastic based packaging is 
recyclable4 Green Building
All newly-built restaurants are in full compliance with 
the Yum China Green Building Standards
5 Responsible Sourcing
Yum China CSR Audit covers all critical suppliers
6 Sustainable Sourcing
- Only purchase RSPO-certified palm oil
- Refuse to purchase paper products from suppliers 
   that knowingly cause deforestationOur Goal and CommitmentSustainability Background 
l Climate change and extreme weather events have seriously affected socio-economic development, human health, 
migration, food security and terrestrial and marine ecosystems.
l The Paris Agreement defines the principles, objectives and mechanisms of global action to address global warming 
and climate change.
l The China National New-Type Urbanization Plan (2014-2020) proposes that by 2020, 50% of new buildings in cities 
will be eco-friendly.
l With the national plastic ban, the Chinese Ministry of Ecology and Environment has piloted the Zero Waste City 
project in "11+5" cities and regions.
Contribution to the SDGs
High Relevance Medium Relevance ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
46OUR PATHWAY 
Materiality Topic Our Direction Progress in 2019 
GHG / 
Energy EfficiencyLeverage energy-saving technology 
and strengthen management to 
continuously reduce electricity 
consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissionsl Implemented the VTA* energy conservation project in 
       about 500 new restaurants across the country, with 
       annual saving of 10 MWh per restaurant
l Reduced average restaurant electricity consumption by 
       8.3% and GHG emissions by 8.6% from 2017
l Saved approximately 19,000 MWh electricity through 
       the use of innovative equipment and energy 
       management system
Water Management Leverage water-saving technology 
and strengthen water management to 
continuously reduce average restaurant 
water consumptionl Expanded the testing of the electrostatic thawing tank
l Reduced average restaurant water consumption by 
       5.6% from 2017
Green Building Constantly update and implement Yum 
China's Green Building Standardsl 100% of the newly-built company-owned restaurants met 
       Yum China's Green Building Standards
Sustainable 
PackagingDrive for reduction of  single-use 
packaging, and promote the use of 
reusable and eco-friendly packaging 
materialsl Saved over 8,000 tons of paper and 1,000 tons of plastics 
       through packaging reduction initiatives 
l Saved more than 2,000 tons of paper packaging and 
       reduced approximately 20% of restaurant waste through 
       the use of reusable serving basket
l Used about 20 tons of recycled materials in non-food
       contact packaging
Waste Management Reduce food loss and waste, used 
cooking oil and other restaurant and 
kitchen waste, and actively seek waste 
recycling opportunitiesl Reduced food loss and waste by about 50 tons through 
       the use of advanced fryers
l Converted all the 666,465 kg of used cooking oil in 
       Chengdu KFC restaurants into biodiesel
l Applied innovative oil-saving equipment and management 
       policy and saved over 1,700 tons of cooking oil
Responsible 
SourcingEnsure social and environmental 
compliance at supply chain l 100% of critical suppliers completed the CSR audit
l 99.7% of suppliers graded A and B
Sustainable Sourcing  Continue to promote sustainable 
sourcing practices of key raw materialsl 100% of the palm oil purchased certified by RSPO
l Refuse to purchase paper products from suppliers that 
       knowingly cause deforestation
Public Awareness 
and EducationAdvocate environmental protection 
in societyl Our donations to China Green Foundation helped finance 
       the restoration of more than 1,000,000 square meters of 
       grassland in Siziwang Banner of Inner MongoliaOur Management Approach 
Guided by our 4R Principles, we formulate environmental policies, share our concept and practice of sustainable 
development, and collaborate with stakeholders to create a sustainable ecosystem.
PoliciesWe develop environmental management system, climate change strategy, plastic strategy, and update 
the Supplier Code of Conduct etc.
Targets SettingWe set targets for energy efficiency, water management, sustainable packaging, green building, 
sustainable sourcing and responsible sourcing, etc., and track progress regularly.
Key Projects Reusable serving basket, used cooking oil converted into biodiesel, etc.
* VTA : Value-added Technology ApplicationENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
47SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT
Deeply aware of our environmental responsibilities, Yum China complies with laws and regulations and continuously 
identifies environmental impact across the value chain. Moreover, we have set sustainable development goals and monitor 
progress regularly.
Guided by our 4R (Reduce, Reuse, Replace and Recycle) Principles, we are committed to using less energy and natural 
resources from the beginning, and reducing waste and packaging so as to minimize our environmental footprint. In 
partnership with suppliers, we strive to build an entirely sustainable supply chain. In 2019, we updated the environmental 
management system and stakeholder engagement process.
4R PrinciplesReduceReuse
ReplaceRecycleReduce
- Reduce single-use packaging
- Reduce waste generation
- Reduce energy consumption
- Reduce GHG emissions
- Reduce water consumptionReuse
- Use of reusable materials
- Use of reusable packaging solutions 
- Apply reusable decoration materials
Replace
- Replace plastic packaging with 
biodegradable materials 
- Purchase sustainable palm oil
- Refuse to purchase fiber from 
sources that contribute to 
deforestation
- Use of energy-saving equipment Recycle
- Convert used cooking oil into  
biodiesel
- Waste sorting in restaurants
- Use of recyclable plastic materials
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
48ACTING ON CLIMATE CHANGE
The ever-growing population and consumption demand are depleting the limited natural resources. The large amount of 
GHG emitted through human activities leads to global warming, climate-related disasters and other challenges. Although 
Yum China is not a large consumer of fossil fuels in the traditional sense, we actively identify and assess energy use and GHG 
emissions across the value chain. We set stretching targets for energy efficiency and emission reduction.
In 2019, we formulated a climate change strategy which defines our methods and measures for energy and GHG 
management, green building design, and rainforest conservation. We took a deep dive into the various scopes of GHG 
emissions, and continuously disclose Scope 2 GHG emissions. In the future, we will gradually strengthen the GHG 
management among upstream suppliers and set clearly defined emission reduction targets.
Average Restaurant Electricity Consumption
Unit: MWh
373 2017
2018 358
2019 342
2017
2018
2019255
245
233Average Restaurant Energy Indirect 
(Scope 2)  GHG Emissions
Unit: tCO2e Energy Efficiency and GHG  Emissions 
Restaurant construction and operation is an important part 
of our energy and GHG emissions management. In 2019, we 
continued to promote the application of innovative energy 
saving initiatives and technologies to reduce the energy 
intensity and GHG emissions. In addition, we incorporated 
energy efficiency into performance evaluation criteria of our 
restaurant teams.Installed Saved
Kitchen Cooking Fume Exhaust 
Control System~1,200 
systems  ~4,300 MWh 
Heat Pump Water Heater~700   
systems  ~7,800 MWh 
High-Efficiency DC Air 
Conditioning System ~800  
restaurants ~2,500 MWh 
LED  Lighting~1,000  
restaurants ~2,100 MWh 
VTA System~500  
restaurants ~2,500 MWh 
Effect of Yum China's Energy Saving Initiatives / Technologies in 2019 > In 2019
l Total electricity consumption 2,870,997 MWh
l Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 1,956,072 tCO2e
l Saved approximately 19,000 MWh electricity through the 
use of innovative equipment and energy management 
systemENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
493362We are aware of the emission reduction opportunities in Yum 
China's logistics network, consisting of 24 logistics centers 
and 5 consolidation centers, hundreds of suppliers and their 
upstream partners.
In 2019, the transport management system (TMS) was 
implemented to optimize the distribution network and 
route planning throughout the country, which leads to GHG 
emissions reduction through optimized vehicle loading rate, shortened delivery mileage, and less no-load return trips. 
We explore opportunities to use new-energy vehicles (NEVs) 
as refrigerated vehicles. In cities rapidly embracing NEVs, 
such as Shenzhen, we operate small NEV fleets on a trial 
basis. In addition, we actively explore the use of renewable 
energy to our fleets. Our logistics centers pilot the use of 
biodiesel vehicles in Shanghai where this renewable fuel is 
available in the market. In the future, we will seek for roll-out 
opportunity.  ACTING ON CLIMATE CHANGE
GHG Emissions Reduction Powered by TMS
Restaurant Order Transportation Planning Dispatch the Order
Transporter
Driver Departure Loading
Sign the Receipt 
Optimizing Route, Real-time Monitoring, 
and Instant Response New/Renewable Energy Fleets运输
Transportation
Time Refrigerator Temperature  Door Opening Location
TMS IoT Headquarters 
Operations 
Yum China 
Logistics Centers
Restaurant ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
50Water Managment
We prioritize our water management efforts in reducing 
water usage and improving resource efficiency. According to 
statistics, only 0.01% of the planet’s water resources is fresh 
water readily available for human activities, and about 40% of 
the world population are suffering from water scarcity. China 
is one of the world’s most water-scarce* countries where per 
capita water resources are low. We worked with the World 
Resources Institute (WRI) to assess water resources in the 
areas where Yum China's restaurants are located. Based on the 
assessment results, we prioritize the application of water-
saving equipment in water-stressed or water-scarce areas.
We actively explore and promote the application of water-
saving equipment, and include water efficiency into the 
performance evaluation criteria of our restaurant teams. In 
2019, we commenced pilot testing of thawing equipment in 
selected KFC restaurants in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen. 
We also installed water-saving faucets, which consume 50% 
less water, in newly-built company-owned and remodeled 
restaurants. 
The Innovative Water Saving Initiatives and  
Technologies Adopted in 2019Water-Saving Faucet 
Installed in newly-built and remodeled 
restaurants, consuming 50% less water
Electrostatic Thawing 
Tested in selected restaurants,  
to be expanded to more restaurants in the future
Cleaning Equipment 
Used on a trial basis, 
to be replicated in more restaurants in the future
3362
Average Restaurant Water Consumption
Unit: ton
2017 3,478
2018 3,362
2019 3,284> In 2019
l Total water consumption 27,602,012 tonsACTING ON CLIMATE CHANGE
* World Water Resource at the Beginning of the 21st Century : UNESCO, 2003ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
51Green Buildings 
Yum China currently operates more than 9,200 restaurants, 
including 1,006 newly opened in 2019, close to 3 new 
openings every day. We are aware that restaurant 
construction and decoration consumes a lot of materials, and 
daily restaurant operation generates certain environmental 
impact. To reduce the impact, we have formulated Yum China 
Green Building Standards by referring to the Leadership 
in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) criteria, and 
consistently incorporated energy-saving, water-saving 
and environmental protection solutions into sustainable 
restaurant designs and construction. This resulted in greater 
resource efficiency, enhanced dining experience, and a 
healthier and more comfortable workplace environment. 
We are proud to share that all our newly built company-
owned restaurants in 2019 meet Yum China Green Building 
Standards.l More Customer-centered
 - Conduct market surveys to better understand 
  customers' needs for a comfortable environment
 - Emphasize the needs of local communities, and design 
  dining tables and chairs in a way that appeals to 
  targeted customers
l More Comfortable 
 - Adopt the highest national fresh air volume standard for 
  restaurants to keep the indoor air fresh 
 - Choose top branded DC variable frequency air 
  conditioners 
 - Use certified LED lamps to create a comfortable lighting 
 environment and protect the vision
 - Fully consider ergonomics to ensure the comfort of 
 employees and customers
l More Environmentally-friendly 
 - Adopt the life cycle principle for application of energy 
  efficient equipment
 - Explore the use of SPF boards, aluminum boards and 
 other more environmentally friendly and recyclable 
 decoration materials
 - Use better sound-absorbing materials to reduce noise 
  and create a better environment for both customers and
  restaurant staff> In 2019
l 16 Pizza Hut restaurants in Shanghai named "Green 
Restaurant" by Shanghai Restaurants Cuisine Association, 
with 2 of them named as "Model Green Restaurant"
Smart Control of Fresh Air
In 2019, Yum China introduced the VTA system 
into newly-built and remodeled restaurants, 
using programmable, sensors and controllers 
to automatically monitor HVAC equipment. The 
system monitors real time CO2 intensity and 
automatically controls fresh air volume, thus 
reducing energy consumption and ensuring a 
comfortable environment. The system can also 
detect and report anomalies to ensure safe and 
efficient operation.
By the end of 2019, about 500 restaurants were 
included in pilot test of VTA, with 10 MWh per 
restaurant per year saving opportunities expected. 
In 2020, it is planned to roll out VTA to other brands 
and more restaurants in Yum China.
LEED Gold Certified YumChina Building 
YumChina Building, also known as Restaurant 
Support Center (RSC), is LEED Gold certified, 
embodying high sustainability standards from 
design to operation. In 2019, about 412 MWh of 
electricity and 5,000 tons of water saving were 
achieved in RSC. 
Energy-saving measures in RSC: smart control of 
lighting and air conditioning systems, daylight 
sensor, BA-controlled lightening, and automatic 
light switch-off at the unoccupied office area and 
meeting room, and areas with sufficient illumination 
from external windows etc. ACTING ON CLIMATE CHANGEENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
52Restaurant operations inevitably consume a large amount of single-use packaging, and produce different sorts of waste at 
back of house, generating environmental impact. Guided by our 4R Principles, we are committed to reducing packaging and 
waste from the source of use. Meanwhile we actively respond to the government call for classification of waste generated 
during restaurant operation, and engage our customers and other stakeholders to drive for plastic and waste reduction. 
Yum China’s Packaging and Waste Actions4R Principles Customer-Facing  
PackagingFood Waste  
(incl. cooking oil)Food Loss 
Reduce l Reduce packaging weight 
l On-request-only provision of 
       disposable cultery, straws and 
       cup lids
l Explore more opportunities of
       reducing disposable packaging l Advanced fryers
l Operational managementl AI-powered production 
       forecast
l Flexible configuration of small  
       fryers
Reuse l Reusable basket
l Reusable cutlery 
l Reusable straps- -
Recycle l Application of recyclable raw 
       materials in the design and 
       material selection for packaging 
l Promote the use of recycled 
       materials in non-food contact 
       packagingl Convert used cooking oil into 
       biodiesel -
Replace l Monitor trends and 
       development of new ecofriendly 
       materials for replacement - -
PACKAGING AND WASTE STEWARDSHIPENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
53Packaging Weight Reduction
Yum China endeavors to simplify and improve packaging 
through technology and weight reduction as part of its 
efforts for sustainable packaging. So far, through innovative 
packaging design, we have reduced the weight of 20 types 
of customer-facing, plastic-based packaging items. In 2019, 
the main reduction initiatives were paper bags for breakfast 
takeaway and the improved design of egg tart boxes.Reusable Serving Basket
The in-house developed reusable serving baskets have been 
rolled out in more than 6,000 KFC restaurants across China. 
The basket is designed to reduce single use paper packaging 
without comprising customers' dining experience. In 2019, we 
promoted the use of reusable serving basket for other brands 
in the Company’s portfolio.Sustainable Packaging
The extensive use of disposable packaging is a common 
challenge in quick-service restaurant and food & beverage 
industries. We strictly follow relevant China regulations on 
the use of packaging. Guided by our 4R Principles, we drive 
innovation in the application of new packaging solutions, 
new materials and new technologies to reduce packaging 
usage. We improve our packaging design to achieve the 
same performance with less material by reducing packaging 
weight. We ensure the application of recyclable raw materials 
in the design and material selection for packaging. We explore 
every opportunity to utilize recycled materials for non-food 
contact paper packaging where applicable. We drive for reuse 
model such as the use of reusable serving basket to reduce 
single-use paper packaging, and raise customers’ awareness 
to protect our environment for sustainable development. > In 2019
l Saved over 8,000 tons of paper packaging and 1,000 
tons of plastic packaging through packaging reduction 
initiatives
l Saved more than 2,000 tons of paper packaging and 
reduced approximately 20% of restaurant waste through 
the use of reusable serving basket
l Used about 20 tons of recycled materials in non-food 
contact packagingPACKAGING AND WASTE STEWARDSHIP
Plastic Reduction Initiatives
We actively respond to and comply with relevant 
China regulations, review the policies governing 
non-degradable plastic straws, bags and cutlery 
for reduction. In nearly 400 KFC restaurants 
in Shenzhen, Zhuhai and Hainan, we took the 
lead to pilot the on-request-only provision of 
disposable cup lids and straws to reduce plastic 
use. We carefully monitor customer feedback and 
accordingly optimize the restaurant workflow, so as 
to lay the foundation for promoting the pilot project 
to all KFC restaurants.
Moreover, Yum China logistics centers introduced 
reusable straps for some cargos to reduce the plastic 
stretch films and avoid the generation of plastic 
waste.
On-request-only Provision of  
Disposable Straws and Cup Lids
Reusable Straps Applied in Logistics Centers  
to Reduce Plastic Stretch FilmsENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
54The Reusable Serving Basket The introduction of the reusable serving basket in more than 6,000 restaurants and the offline 
grassland revitalization project engages hundreds of millions of customers and aims to raise 
public awareness of the environmental protection with every dine-in or online order.
- Johnson Huang 
 General Manager of KFC China 
I notice the absence of straws, plastic cup lids and other plastics. I give KFC a thumbs up for 
going green and protecting the environment.
- Feedback from A KFC Restaurant Patron
In April 2019, KFC announced a partnership 
with China Green Foundation for the 
restoration of more than one million square 
meters of grassland in Inner Mongolia. This 
project is also the first business-funded 
demonstration project for the sustainable 
grassland restoration.
In addition to donating money to the above 
Foundation, KFC has launched online and 
offline activities to engage customers in the 
initiative, and advocate green dining and 
green lifestyle.PACKAGING AND WASTE STEWARDSHIP
Scan to Explore 
Our Reusable Serving Basket
KFC  Restaurant in Shenzhen Mixc Promotes  
the Grandpa Kentucky Prairie Project 
The Grandpa Kentucky PrairieENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
55Minimizing Waste Impact
Deeply aware of the enormous environment benefits of 
restaurant waste management, Yum China complies with 
relevant laws and regulations and implements strict control 
to ensure that restaurant waste is delivered to qualified 
and certified disposers. We have formulated the waste 
management process, and implement the 4R Principles 
to reduce waste including food loss, used cooking oil and 
packaging waste.> In 2019
l Saved over 1,700 tons of cooking oil through the use of 
innovative oil-saving equipment
l Saved about 50 tons of food loss through the use of small, 
flexible fryers 
l Became the first ISCC-certified restaurant company in 
China to convert used cooking oil into biodiesel
l Amount of used cooking oil converted into biodiesel in 
Chengdu biodiesel project 666,465 kg, equivalent to 
reducing potential GHG emissions by about 1,400 tCO2e
l KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants in Shanghai converted all 
the 3,000 tons of used cooking oil collected throughout 
the year into biodieselPACKAGING AND WASTE STEWARDSHIP
Waste Sorting 
In 2016, we launched the waste sorting project at selected 
restaurants and installed classified waste bins to help turn 
kitchen waste into resources. In active response to the 
government call for waste sorting, we followed the waste 
sorting policies in 46 pilot cities and set up assorted waste 
bins accordingly.  
KFC and Pizza Hut’s combined digital membership grew by 
over one-third in 2019 to 240 million. More and more orders 
are placed online or via kiosks in the restaurants. So we 
actively use these channels to raise customers’ awareness 
of environmental protection. Specifically, before the online 
payment is made, we provide an option for customers to 
decide the need of disposable cutlery, and only when the 
customer clicks the ‘yes’ option will it be delivered along with 
the meal.
In the meantime, we actively share our management 
practice on waste sorting. In November 2019, the officials in 
charge of waste sorting from Beijing Municipal Government 
and relevant industry associations visited one of our KFC 
restaurants. The restaurant general manager introduced the 
policy, procedures, training and assessment regarding waste 
sorting, and received high praises from the guests.
For Used Trays and 
Reusable Serving BasketsFor Liquid 
Waste
For Packaging 
WasteFor Food Waste
The Assorted Waste Bin in KFC  Restaurants Household Waste Sorting
We set up assorted waste  
bins in restaurants. On-request-only Provision 
of Disposable Cutlery 
in Some Regions
We adopt on-request-only 
provision of disposable 
cutlery for both  
dine-in and takeaway.Requirements of Regulations and Policies 
Yum China’s Response to the Waste Sorting PoliciesENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
56Reducing Food Waste
According to the estimates by the United Nations Food and 
Agriculture Organization (FAO), around 1/3 of the world’s 
food was lost or wasted every year. Reducing food loss and 
waste is one of the Sustainable Development Goals of the 
United Nations and is seen by the international community 
as an important strategic option to address food security and 
climate change. In 2019, Yum China introduced sophisticated 
kitchen equipment and AI technology for precise production 
forecasting, improved cold chain to reduce food loss, and 
strengthened the back of house (BOH) operation, effectively 
reduced the loss and waste of chicken products.Converting Used Cooking Oil into Biodiesel 
Food preparation and cooking, as an important part of the 
restaurant operation, produces a lot of used cooking oil. On 
the premise of compliance, Yum China has been seeking ways 
to recycle used cooking oil. A feasibility study was started 
in 2018, and later we launched a small-scale pilot project 
in Chengdu to convert used cooking oil into biodiesel. As a 
result, all company-owned (nearly 100) KFC restaurants in 
Chengdu have established a comprehensive data recording 
and tracking system in accordance with the ISCC criteria. In 
February 2019, Yum! Restaurants (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. was 
certified as an ISCC point of origin, and our storage tank for 
used cooking oil was certified as an ISCC warehouse.
In addition, we actively track the biodiesel supply in the 
refined oil market, and explore ways to power our logistics 
fleets with biodiesel. This results in a complete closed loop, 
contributing to the circular economy and GHG emissions 
reduction.
In 2019, we embraced the Interim Administrative Measures of 
Shanghai Municipality for the Promotion of Biodiesel Converted 
from Used Cooking Oil and Grease, and delivered all used 
cooking oil produced by KFC and Pizza Hut to a government-
designated third-party agency to convert into biodiesel. Our 
logistics center in Shanghai encouraged service suppliers 
to use, on a trial basis, biodiesel from CNPC (China National 
Petroleum Corporation) and Sinopec gas stations to fuel their 
fleets.
1 Collect3 Recycle2 ConvertPACKAGING AND WASTE STEWARDSHIP
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
57Supplier CSR Management
Yum China’s Supplier CSR  Management MeasuresAudit
Third-party auditors assess suppliers’ social and environmental performance. A-grading 
suppliers are deemed the best performing while C-grading suppliers are considered high risk. 
> In 2019  
Nearly 400 suppliers were covered in Yum China’s CSR audit. The coverage will be further 
expanded in the future.
Training
Training and capability building of CSR competence
> In 2019  
13 CSR training sessions were organized for more than 200 suppliers.
Awareness Building
Promote the concept of CSR through suppliers’ conferences, meetings and communications
> In 2019  
CSR was one of the agenda at Yum China’s 2019 Supplier Partners Convention. 
Management Requirements
All suppliers sign the Yum China Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC).
> In 2019  
The Supplier CoC is updated to highlight ethical standards such as human rights, labor 
practice and environmental compliance. Continuous Improvement in Supplier CSR PerformanceAs the value chain becomes increasingly globalized and complicated, it is a major challenge to strike a balance between 
cost-effectiveness and high quality, ecological and social standards and sustainable supply. We have been continuously 
making efforts to create a sustainable ecosystem. We embrace every opportunity to engage our suppliers to collectively 
drive environmental sustainability priorities and responsible business practices.
Jointly Building A Responsible Supply Chain
Yum China has a large and geographically diverse network of 
suppliers, and social responsibility risks related to the supply 
chain will pose a serious threat to our business. Therefore, 
we began to promote supplier corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) management in 2017 and have established and 
improved the CSR management and audit requirements.
We require all of our suppliers to sign the Yum China Supplier 
Code of Conduct (CoC) before they become our suppliers to 
ensure our suppliers are legally compliant with all applicable 
laws and regulations. We also engage professional third-
party auditing firms to conduct on-site CSR audits in areas such as child / minor labor, forced labor, health and safety, 
discrimination, disciplinary measures, working hours, wages 
and benefits, environmental management and security. 
We include CSR and Business Continuity Management (BCM), 
along with innovation, quality, safety, and cost optimization, 
as performance evaluation criteria in the Yum China Business 
Review for supply chain management.> In 2019
l Percentage of CSR audited critical suppliers 100%A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAINENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
58Labor
l Working Hours
l Wage and Welfare Human Rights 
l Child / Minor Labor
l Forced Labor 
l Discrimination
l Punishments
Environment
lEnvironmental 
 Compliance
l Waste Management Safety
l Health and Safety 
l Plant Security  
Key Areas of Yum China’s Supplier CSR Audit 2019 Supplier CSR Audit ResultsCSR Ratings: A-grading
Score ≥ 90/100 AND without any critical issue
Valid for 24 months6%
CSR Ratings: C-grading
Score < 80/100 OR with any critical issue
Immediate remediation and re-audit is required.  
If the supplier is still graded C in the follow-up audit, 
it is considered to be at high risk, and the partnership 
is to be carefully reviewed by Yum China.0.3%CSR Ratings: B-grading
80/100 ≤ Score < 90/100 AND without any critical issue
Valid for 12 months93.7%A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN
Business Continuity Management (BCM)
To enhance our suppliers' awareness and capabilities in 
risk management, we work with third-party agencies to 
conduct the onsite BCM audit, which identifies the risks 
faced by suppliers in terms of assets and operations and then 
recommends preventive measures. In addition, we encourage 
our suppliers to extend risk management and best practice to 
their upstream suppliers to enhance the sustainability of the 
entire supply chain.
Sunner’s New Energy Facility Partner with Suppliers to Promote  
A Sustainable Supply Chain
Sunner Group is the most important poultry 
supplier of Yum China. Since Yum China 
conducted the CSR audit in 2017, Sunner has put 
in place a CSR system as required, and extended 
the CSR requirements to its upstream suppliers.  
Sunner actively responds to the national 
Renewable Energy Law by building a sustainable 
industry. The Group transforms the traditional 
"resources-products- wastes discharge" linear 
model into a new feedback circular economy 
development model of "resources-products-
wastes-renewable resources" . Specifically, the 
surplus produced in the breeding, slaughtering 
and processing of broilers is utilized to generate 
new energy, aiming to realize the goal of zero 
emission, zero waste and zero pollution and unity 
of economic and ecological benefits.ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
5960Sustainable Sourcing
Yum China has a large and geographically diverse network 
of suppliers that provide food, packaging, equipment and 
services. We strive to form solid, long-term partnership 
with suppliers, and work closely with them to build a more 
sustainable supply chain.
Since 2019, Yum China has gradually expanded the scope 
of sustainable sourcing. We identify key raw materials and 
environmental and social risks involved in sourcing activities, 
so as to formulate sustainable sourcing strategy, which helps 
reduce environmental impact and improve livelihood of 
growers and smallholders.
Palm oil is one of our key raw materials. 
Since 2017, we have been a member 
of Roundtable on Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO). We only purchase RSPO-
certified palm oil. We also care about 
the environmental impact of paper 
packaging in the sourcing process 
and refuse to purchase paper products from any suppliers 
that knowingly cause deforestation. In addition to palm 
oil and paper, we continue to explore new opportunities 
of producing a positive environmental impact through 
responsible sourcing of raw materials and promote our 
sustainable sourcing initiatives.Localized Sourcing
Localized sourcing not only helps supply chain risk 
mitigation for stability and efficiency, but also stimulates the 
development of local communities. Through open and honest 
communication and mutually beneficial cooperation, we 
continue to improve our ability to influence our overseas and 
domestic suppliers.
We encourage our overseas suppliers to move business to 
China and maintain quality consistency. At the same time, we 
actively seek for local sourcing opportunities for synergies, 
cost competitiveness, and rapid market response.
As of the end of 2019, our local suppliers were based in 
21 provinces, 4 municipalities and 4 autonomous regions 
across China. About 8% of these suppliers were in West 
China, playing a positive role in boosting local economic 
development, employment and taxation.
Local Suppliers as % of Total Suppliers
2017 98.3%
2018 98.4%
2019 98.7%A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN
> In 2019
l Percentage of RSPO-certified palm oil 100%
l Refuse to purchase paper products from suppliers that 
knowingly cause deforestationENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX61
PEOPLE  
DEVELOPING FUTURE-READY CULTURE 
AND WORKFORCE FOR DIGITAL ERA
The development of big data and AI technologies is reshaping traditional 
industries and accelerating global business reform. With 450,000 employees and 
over 9,200 restaurants, Yum China is committed to a working environment of "Fair, 
Care, Pride." To adapt to challenges from the digital era, the company inspires and 
cultivates every employee to build employability and pursue self-realization as 
part of its efforts to drive digital transformation.
“In the digital age, every enterprise should be more agile, be able to develop talent-
fostering strategies in line with the times, and fully tap into the innovation potential of 
both individuals and the organization. As we strive to be the world’s most innovative 
pioneer in the restaurant industry, we need to develop innovative 
thinking and creative capacity in our employees, offer them a 
better work experience and development opportunities. ”
-Joey Wat 
CEO of Yum China
6162OVERVIEW
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
- No less than 50% of our total workforce is female
- Women are employed, trained, promoted, and retained at a rate of no less than 50%Our Goal and CommitmentKey Material Issues Across the Value Chain
Upstream Suppliers
l Labor Laws and 
 Regulations 
l Occupational 
 Health and Safety Suppliers
l Labor Laws and 
 Regulations 
l Occupational 
 Health and Safety Logistics  
l Employee Rights 
 and Welfare 
l Employee Training 
 and Development
l Diversity and Equal 
 Opportunity 
l Labor Laws and 
 Regulations 
l Occupational 
 Health and Safety Restaurants
l Employee Rights 
 and Welfare 
l Employee Training 
 and Development
l Diversity and Equal 
 Opportunity 
l Labor Laws and 
 Regulations 
l Occupational 
 Health and Safety Customers 
l Culture and ValueSustainable Supply Chain Sustainable Restaurants
 Sustainable CommunitySustainability Background 
l The 2019 Global Human Capital Trends, eleased by Deloitte, points out a global trend that digital, cross-sector 
integration, data-driven and information-driven factors dominate the reshaping of traditional jobs. Traditional job 
providers should create "super jobs" based on human-technology cooperation, so as to maximize the productivity 
and efficiency.
l According to the list of Top 100 Short-staffed Jobs in China in Q4 of 2019 released by the Ministry of Human and 
Social Affairs by collecting fixed-point monitoring data from urban public employment agencies, restaurant service 
jobs are ranked among the top three in talent crunch.
l Facing the manpower shortage in the industry, investors care about how the company formulates effective policies 
to tackle human resource challenges, and how the company becomes a preferred employer that attracts, retains 
and develops employees to enable the company’s stable development.
Contribution to the SDGs
High Relevance Medium RelevanceENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX63Our Management Approach 
With 450,000 employees and over 9,200 restaurants, Yum China is committed to a working environment of "Fair, Care, Pride." 
To adapt to challenges from the digital era, the company inspires and cultivates every employee to build employability and 
pursue self-realization as part of its efforts to drive digital transformation.
An Innovative,  
Visionary CultureWe uphold the Founder’s Mentality and stride towards the vision of becoming “The World's Most 
Innovative Pioneer In The Restaurant Industry” .
Capability BuildingTo empower our employees’ sustainability career development, we purposefully cultivate our 
employees’ skills and capabilities required in the digital age, including learning agility, digital insights, 
crossover cooperation, agile iteration and bold vision.
Improve Organizational 
EfficiencyWe equip our employees with digital technologies and build an agile, innovative and high-performing 
organization.OUR PATHWAY  
Materiality Topic Our Direction Progress in 2019 
Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity Create a professional, inclusive and non-
discriminatory working environment for 
450,000 employees
Understand, accept and encourage 
differences and provide equal 
opportunities for alll Signed the United Nations WEPs 
l Selected for 2019 Bloomberg Gender Equality Index (GEI)        
       for two consecutive years 
l Female share of total workforce 61.5% 
l Female share of total management workforce 54%
l Had owned 25 "Angel Restaurants" in 24 cities with about 
       400 "Angel Employees" across China by the end of 2019
Training and 
Development  Create a cutting-edge training system 
to cultivate employees' abilities for 
the digital era and empower their 
sustainable career development in the 
fast-changing worldl Certified as a "Top Employer China" for two consecutive 
       years by the Top Employer Institute
l The 2nd Leadership Development Program accelerated 
       the growth of next-generation leaders’ core abilities
l Offered continuing education opportunities for 
       employees through YUMC College
l The total training exceeded 13 million hours, with 
       the cost per capita of nearly 2,000 RMB*1
Occupational Health 
and Safety Committed to provide a safe and healthy 
working environment for employees by 
upholding "Safety Mania" mindset and 
complying with laws and regulations 
such as the Labor Law of the People’s 
Republic of China and the Law on the 
Prevention and Control of Occupational 
Diseasesl Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) per million hours 
       worked 1.08
l Monthly safety-themed posters to raise employee 
       awareness of  occupational health and safety risks 
l 100% of restaurant employees obtained the health 
       certificate 
l 100% of restaurant management team and office 
       employees covered by annual physical examination
Employee Rights and 
Welfare Comply with the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights and the international 
convention signed by the Chinese 
government and strictly abide by the 
national Labor Law
Respect and protect legitimate rights 
and interests of employees, provide 
them with competitive remuneration 
mechanisml RGM*2 turnover rate has dropped to 8.2% after the 
       implementation of the RGM "3-Year Plan"
l A flexible welfare system to provide considerate and  
       diverse health benefits for employees 
l 90% of restaurant management team and office 
       employees responded to the engagement survey and 
       scored 73%, higher than the global and Chinese industry 
       average 
l 100% of full-time employees were covered by social 
       security insurances 
l Strictly prohibited the use of child labor and protected 
       minors’ rights in Yum China and our suppliers 
*1 The number of employees calculated as per Full Time Equivalents (FTE)     *2 RGM: Restaurant General Manager ENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX64"DIGITAL " CULTURE POWERING EFFICIENCY
In the digital age, it is important to build an agile, innovative and high-performing organization to succeed in the future. 
Yum China adapts its corporate culture, core competitiveness and technical know-how to embrace the digitalization trend. 
Through empowering our employees and building a culture rooted in Founder’s Mentality, we inspire our employees to 
work together towards our common vision and achieve our sustained growth, for both individuals and the organization. 
3362Reshaping the Organization's Ability to Innovate
Yum China continues to provide a fertile environment for 
innovation, facilitating and fostering innovative thinking and 
actions. All Yum China employees, poised to excel in their 
respective field, will form the most productive team that is 
capable of offering industry-leading products, services and 
assets, and helps Yum China to become the most innovative 
pioneer in the restaurant industry.> In 2019
l The human capital return on investment 149.86% *
l Conducted employee engagement surveys through Aon 
Hewitt, in which 90% of the restaurant management 
teams and office employees participated, with an average 
score of 73%, significantly higher than the global and 
Chinese industry average
Building Strength in Innovation
Soil for Innovation
Foster sustainable, scalable and 
disruptive innovations 
Mindset for Innovation
Continuously upgrade 
knowledge structures, have the 
courage to experiment and make 
innovation part of daily work 
Actions for Innovation
Think boldly and creatively, and 
verify the feasibility of new ideas 
carefully. Make small, fast moves, 
learn by doing, and reach the 
conclusions promptlyBuilding Pioneers in the Restaurant Industry 
Industry-leading Products, Services and Assets
Integrate the latest technology into the retail 
scene, continuously deliver a disruptive 
innovation experience for customers, and 
promote consumption upgrading
Most Productive Employees and Teams
Uphold the Founder’s Mentality, maintain 
a sense of mission, crisis and hunger for 
excellence and grow to be pioneers in the 
restaurant industry along with the company 
Expand boundaries and Aim at the Top 
Strategically aim to be the best, be bold to 
experiment and invest in digitalization, big data 
and delivery Vision: The World's Most Innovative Pioneer In The Restaurant Industry
* According to DJSI, human capital return on investment = (total revenue - <total operating expenses - total employee-related expenses>) / total employee-related expensesENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX65Nourishing An Engaged Workforce
The most valuable asset of Yum China is the 450,000 
employees. The company is committed to building a highly 
dedicated workforce that is engaged to "Say, Stay and 
Strive" . Such a high-performing team is crucial to the rapid 
development of business and increasing returns on human 
capital.
In 2019, Yum China partnered Aon Hewitt to conduct 
an employee engagement survey responded by 90% of 
restaurant management teams and office employees. It 
turned out that our staff is significantly more engaged 
than our industry peers in average. The respondents spoke 
highly of the company's leadership development, effective 
cooperation, diversity and inclusiveness, empowerment, 
learning and development, customer orientation and 
performance management.
Yum China advocates the principle of " the more you know, 
the more you care " . In addition to the engagement survey, we 
have established and maintained various online and offline 
channels and platforms, including the Restaurant General 
Manager Forum, WeChat Corporate Account, intranet, and 
Magic Box APP , to ensure timely and effective communication 
between management and employees. Yum China has 
also opened a hotline with a dedicated team to address 
employees' concerns and provide timely and comprehensive 
support for employees.Empowering Frontline Workforce by Digitalization
In the digital age, companies should empower, not 
micromanage, their employees, so as to unite them to jointly 
respond to market uncertainties. Yum China is committed to 
fully empowering employees and inspiring their creativity 
through digital technology, as a way to enhance the 
effectiveness of frontline services. Digitalization is one of the 
company’s core capabilities. 
We are using technology to enable our operations to be 
nimble and flexible, and that, coupled with our in-house and 
integrated supply chain, enabled us to launch new products 
and promotions at national, regional or even store level with 
increasing speed and efficiency.  
We have utilized AI-based technology to implement store-
based hourly sales forecasting, which supports labor 
scheduling and inventory management.  We also started to 
roll out smart watches, enabling RGMs to closely monitor the 
ordering and serving status in our restaurants.
“RGM No.1” is at the heart of our corporate culture. We believe 
restaurant general managers (RGMs) hold the most important 
positions in the company, and play an indispensable role in 
driving business growth and improving customer satisfaction. 
Empowered by digital technology, RGMs can be released from 
repetitive or routine administrative tasks and focus more on 
restaurant management and operations, staff training and 
customer service. Frontline employees can also devote more 
efforts to providing value-added customer services, which will 
further improve restaurant efficiency.  
3362
"DIGITAL " CULTURE POWERING EFFICIENCY
ENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX66"DIGITAL " TALENT BUILDING EMPLOYABILITY
The digital wave is making traditional employee training and incentive schemes dated. As a certified “Top Employer China” , 
Yum China has calibrated its training system towards the digitalization trend, and equipping employees with competencies 
necessary in the digital era, to empower their sustainable career development in the fast-changing world.
2016年加入百胜这个大家庭以来， 在每一
个阶段， 公司都提供给我们多样化的学习平
台。 完善的培训体系让我学会了自我学习，
学会了总结归纳， 让我在这两年多的时间里
快速成长， 也让我明白机会都是留给有准备
的人的。 每一个阶段的点滴积累、 回顾总结，
都是职业生涯中必不可少的。 只有拼尽全
力， 才会毫不费力， 与百胜共同发展， 我准备
好了！
——肯德基餐厅经理 王钰琪
Since I joined in 2016, Yum China has provided me with diversified learning platforms at every stage. With its comprehensive 
training system, I have grown so much in the past two years. I have also learned that opportunities are reserved for those who 
are prepared. It is essential to accumulate, review, and summarize what has been learned at every stage of my career. Only by 
doing my best will I grow together with Yum China, and I’m ready for it!
- Wang Yuqi, A KFC Restaurant General ManagerYum China Certified As  “Top Employer China”  
for Two Consecutive Y ears
Yum China won the title of "Top Employer China" in 
December 2019, the second year in a row that the company 
has received the global certification. The certification 
covers more than 100 areas and up to 600 specific 
human resource practices covering ten major dimensions 
including talent strategy, workforce planning, talent 
acquisition, on boarding, learning and development, 
performance management, leadership development, 
career and succession management, compensation and 
benefits, and culture. The certification recognizes leading 
employers in more than 115 countries around the world 
that are dedicated to providing exceptional working 
environments through progressive people-first human 
resource practices.> In 2019
l The number of total training hours exceeded 13 million, 
with training hour per capita of approximately 60 hours 
(FTE)
l The total training investment: RMB 430 million, with 
investment per capita of nearly RMB 2,000 (FTE)
l Promotion rate of restaurant management employees 
44% and office employees 15%
With the development of digitalization and artificial 
intelligence, the ability to innovate will be a must for 
every employee. Yum China has always encouraged its 
450,000 employees to continuously innovate, enhance 
their employability by keeping up with the times, 
and do what they can to be better prepared for the 
workplace challenges and opportunities to be brought 
on by technology in the future.
- Aiken Yuen 
Chief People Officer of Yum China
Core Competencies in the Digital Age 
Bold Vision
Uphold the Founder's Mentality, courageously 
challenge traditions, and redefine industry 
norms
Learning Agility
In facing the changing environment, willing to 
learn, unlearn and relearn  
Digital Insights
Stay up to date with external trends, capture 
insights through data analysis, and discover 
customers’ unmet needs
Crossover Cooperation 
Willing to break boundaries, promote exchanges 
with partners, and contribute to the 
establishment of the company’s 
ecosystems
Agile Iteration
Strive for disruptive innovations 
through agile iterationENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX67"DIGITAL " TALENT BUILDING EMPLOYABILITY
Developing Digital Leadership
The fast-growing business world calls for new approaches 
to leadership. In 2019, Yum China launched the Second 
Leadership Development Program, attended by market 
managers and function heads. The six-month program 
incorporated six core competencies critical for the present 
and the future. It helped the next generation leaders 
accelerate their growth and explore the company's direction 
and strategy for the future.Objectives
l Develop core competencies and  
digital leadership 
l Foster learning agility and strategic thinking 
needed for scalable development
l Live the Founder's Mentality Culture
Key Courses
l Integrity
l Strategic Thinking 
l Learning Agility 
l Digital Leadership
l Founder's Mentality
l Organization 
EmpowermentTraining Methods 
l In-class Learning 
at CEIBS Business 
School
l Project Experience 
l Learning by Doing 
l Company Visits
l Mentoring and 
Feedback
l Executive 
Roundtable 
Learning Model of  
Yum China’s Leadership  
Development ProgramENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX68A Structured Training System Fostering Industry Pioneers 
Yum China recruits over 10,000 employees every year to inject new blood into the organization. The company has continuously 
nurtured top talents in the industry through the innovative training system. Each employee has a clear career path and plan for 
development at different career stages, as the company adopts promotion-from-within policy for operation posts and offers 
more than 13 million training hours per year."DIGITAL " TALENT BUILDING EMPLOYABILITY
The executive training program cultivates ability to 
understand the macro economy and organizational 
leadership, thus enabling executives to formulate strategies  
to drive the sustainable development of the company.Executives
The Mini-MBA program strengthens and fosters middle 
management’s innovation ability and leadership, and makes  
them better people manager.Middle Management
Through the KFC Business School and Pizza Hut Management Institute, a new restaurant 
management trainee can progress to a managerial position in as short as 22 months. These 
accelerated development programs help lay a solid foundation for their future success in the 
restaurant industry.Restaurant  
Management TeamThe mentoring program provides personal productivity and leadership 
training for high performing employees and frontline managers to help 
them successfully transition to management positions.Frontline Supervisors
Individual Contributors
The DMD development program provides job skills training for brands and 
functional employees to help grow their core capabilities.Job Skill Training 
Brand Operation Training ENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX69"DIGITAL " TALENT BUILDING EMPLOYABILITY
Golden Whistle AwardYum China 
Logistics’ Management Trainee Program 
To meet the future development needs, Yum China 
Logistics has grown a group of excellent functional 
supervisors and logistics managers. In 2019, Yum China 
recruited 16 high-potential logistics management 
trainees, and provided them with tailored training 
programs to boost their growth. 
The Internal Coach Mechanism
To ensure newly promoted RGMs’ successful transit to 
the new role and quick progress, Yum China trains Area 
Managers to be coaches to help new leaders grow. The 
internal coach mechanism is an important part of our 
talent development process, our culture, and also one of 
our recipes to success.
Every year, we give the Golden Whistle - Best Coach 
Award, to recognize Area Managers who have 
outstanding performance in sales, customer satisfaction, 
and employee retention. Scan to Explore 
Pizza Hut Management School
Scan to Explore 
KFC Business School
This is my ninth year with Yum China since I interned as a 
student. During this time, I have grown and learnt a lot in 
Yum China. I feel the culture of “Fair, Care, Pride' in this big 
family. I am really grateful to the company for providing 
professional management training tailored to the potential 
of each employee. Thanks to this, I have grown from a 
college freshman to a general manager. In the days to 
come, I will remain true to my original aspirations and keep 
growing.
- Wu Chengmin 
A Pizza Hut Restaurant General Manager ENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX70Sharing Experiences and Know-how  
to Develop Industry Talents
Yum China has spared no effort to share its own experience 
and know-how, including training systems and materials, with 
industry partners. In addition, Yum China cooperates with 
universities to offer internship opportunities for students and 
develop curriculum materials for business schools. The work 
has created a more favorable environment for Yum China to 
train capable individuals, and also contributed to the future 
talent cultivation of the industry.Improving Employability through  
Continuous Education
In 2019, Yum China accelerated the implementation of the 
"YUMC College" project, and introduced a new university-
business cooperation model that combines academic 
education with vocational skills training. The project provides 
employees with opportunities of continuous education to 
obtain a nationally recognized college or bachelor’s degree, 
which ultimately  improves their employability. By the end of 
2019, the Yum China had rolled out the project in Guangzhou, 
Fuzhou, Tianjin, Shenzhen and Changsha. In the future, Yum 
China will further promote quality education, improve the 
partnership with universities, to not only help employees to 
become the leaders the company and the industry need, but 
also facilitate the sustained growth of both individuals and 
the organization as a whole.
What attracts me the most in the “YUMC College” 
project is the credit exchange, which is impossible 
in other educational institutions. Yum China and 
universities have tailored specialized courses for us, so 
that we can better combine theory with practice and 
truly gain theoretical knowledge and practical ability. 
In addition, the "no-tuition-burden" policy is also a big 
benefit. The project addresses our most basic needs, 
and enables us to obtain personal growth with little 
financial burden.
- Liu Xuefeng
A KFC Employee of Yum China (Guangdong) Co., Ltd."DIGITAL " TALENT BUILDING EMPLOYABILITY
Partnership with Universities
Yum China has long cooperated with Chinese universities 
to develop curriculum materials, offer internship 
programs and organize career talks and trainings. Pizza 
Hut has formed a partnership with seven universities in 
Zhejiang, and co-launched the Dream Fulfilling Forum 
with 15 universities in Shandong to discuss the career 
development topics with college students.
ENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX71DIVERSIFIED PLATFORM ENABLING SELF-REALIZATION
A diverse workforce is what we rely on to maintain rapid development in a digital age, to keep our innovative edge, and 
to realize our business value and vision. At Yum China, we have been committed to creating a professional, inclusive and 
non-discriminatory working environment for 450,000 employees, where differences are understood, appreciated and 
encouraged, and equal opportunities are provided for all. Every employee, without regard to race, religion, color, age, 
gender, disability, military or veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, citizenship and national origin, can realize 
their personal value on the diversified platform of Yum China.
We are very proud to see Yum China selected by the 
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index  for two consecutive 
years. We are one of the very few Chinese companies to 
achieve this honor. The "People First" philosophy here 
embodies our long-standing belief that employees are 
our most precious asset. We are committed to creating 
a fair working environment for them and will work 
tirelessly to facilitate equal opportunity across the 
whole company, giving all employees the opportunity 
to pursue success regardless of gender.
- Joey Wat
CEO of Yum China> In 2019
l Female share of total workforce 61.5% 
l Female share of total management workforce 54%
l Percentage of women in employees hired and trained 55.9%
l Percentage of women in employees promoted 62.3%
l Percentage of women in employee turnover 55.4%
l The mean overall gender pay gap less than 3%
Empowering Women and  
Building a Platform for Fair Employment 
Gender equality is an important manifestation of diversity 
and inclusiveness. At Yum China, we are committed to 
eliminating gender inequality, elevating women's positions in 
the workplace, and providing support for female employees 
in workplace and daily life. At the workplace, we provide fair 
recruitment, training and promotion opportunities for female 
employees, and enhance their professional competitiveness. 
Outside of work, we care for their health and well-being, 
provide benefits for pregnant employees and nursing 
mothers in accordance with the law, help them adapt to 
changes in life smoothly, and create a more favorable working 
environment for them.
In 2019, Yum China signed the United 
Nations Women’s Empowerment 
Principles (WEPs), and was selected for 
two consecutive years for the Bloomberg   
Gender-Equality Index along with 230 
companies worldwide and two other 
companies in China. They are recognition of Yum China’s 
long-term efforts towards transparent gender disclosure and 
gender equality.
Inspiring Employees to  
Pursue Extraordinary Dreams
At Yum China, everyone is encouraged to explore their 
dreams. We firmly believe that there is not only one correct 
choice for the ideal work and lifestyle, so we embrace the 
diversified dreams of employees and provide platforms 
for them to pursue their extraordinary dreams. In 2019, we 
held Yum China Legend Idol, trying to find the “Voice of 
Yum China” . After rounds of competition, ten finalists came 
on stage at the RGM Convention to showcase their musical 
talent, to an audience of 10,000. On the big stage of Yum 
China, we hope employees can fulfill their dreams.I fell in love with music but had to give up my dream 
of becoming a singer because of my studies. With Yum 
China, I have the unlimited power to pursue my dream 
and make continual progress.
- Chen Xiaoya  
Champion of Legend Idol and  
Assistant Manager of Pizza Hut Restaurant in Haikou
Chen Wuyang, A Finalist Performing on the StageENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX72To facilitate our work, the restaurant has installed 
flashing lights to give prompts and provided writing 
tablets so that customers can write down their needs. 
Our general manager not only teaches us skills but also 
offers mental support. I like it here. I feel happy, fair, 
relaxed, and warm here.
- Feng Hao  
An "Angel Employee" in the Erqi Wanda KFC  
"Angel Restaurant" in Zhengzhou, Henan ProvinceSupporting Employees with Disabilities
Yum China strives to create a barrier-free and friendly 
workplace for people with disabilities, boost their confidence 
and offer them a fair opportunity to realize their personal 
value. The company promises to offer over 1.5% of full-time 
jobs to people with disabilities. In 2019, Yum China employed 
around 2,000 people with disabilities.
In 2012, KFC launched the "Angel Restaurant" project to 
provide equal employment opportunities for the youth with 
disabilities from across the country. By the end of 2019, it had 
hired about 400 “Angel Employees” who confidently stood 
behind the counter, performed their daily work skillfully 
and showed no difference from other employees. 25 "Angel 
Restaurants" have been opened in 24 Chinese cities, each of 
which are equipped with re-configured facilities to facilitate 
the daily work of "Angel Employees" and adapt customized 
management model to provide better development 
opportunities for "Angel Employees" , and help them integrate 
into the team and society.> By the end of 2019
l Yum China had owned 25 "Angel Restaurants" in 24 cities 
with about 400 "Angel Employees" across China.DIVERSIFIED PLATFORM ENABLING SELF-REALIZATION
Government-recognized Designations of 
"Angel Restaurant"
Jinan Disability Employment Base
Xiamen Special Education Schools Training Base
Shaanxi Employee Demonstration Base for  
People with Disabilities
Taiyuan Employment Demonstration Base for 
Youth with Disabilities
Harbin Disabled Person's Federation's Advanced 
Organization for Aiding People with Disabilities
Taiyuan Employment Service Demonstration 
Base for Youth with Disabilities
Spread Love and Positive Energy
A KFC "Angel" volunteer group was launched in March 2019. It 
consists mostly of "Angel Employees" and is the /f_irst of its kind 
in Hunan Province. The volunteer group visited Changsha 
Special Education School on May 15 (the National Disability 
Aid Day), and shared their personal stories to inspire students 
with special needs to strive for their own dreams.
"Angel Restaurant" General Management Yang Shi brought 
with him a bunch of photos to show to the students. The 
photos capture "Angel Employees" racing in a not-for-pro/f_it 
marathon, hugging orphans, and teaching sign language to 
migrant workers' children on the International Children's Day. 
"Moreover, we contribute to the One Yuan Donation program 
every year and help raise funds for children in remote, 
mountainous areas. We hope to spread the love and positive 
energy from our 'Angels' to more people," "Angel Employee" 
Zhou Yanting told us in sign language. 
ENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX73HEALTHCARE AND WELFARE ENHANCING ENGAGEMENT
The hard work and ingenuity of employees are the foundation for corporate development. Yum China strictly abides by the 
Labor Law of the People's Republic of China, and other related laws and regulations, respects and protects the legitimate 
rights and interests of employees. Yum China continuously invests in creating a healthy and caring working atmosphere and 
optimizing the compensation and benefits mechanism to share our innovation development results with our employees and 
boost engagement.
"Safety Mania" to Protect Employee Health
Yum China adheres to the "Safety Mania" concept, and abides 
by laws and regulations on safety and health such as the 
Labor Law and Law on Prevention and Control of Occupational 
Diseases to provide employees with a safe and healthy 
working environment. The company anticipates occupational 
health and safety risks in the supply chain and formulates 
health and safety management systems. Yum China also 
strengthens compliance management, risk control, inspection 
and supervision in daily operations to improve employees' 
safety awareness and ability and effectively protect them 
against safety risks.
In addition, a variety of internal and external factors, such as 
fast-paced work and life and other emergencies, could cause 
psychological stress detrimental to employees’ health. Yum 
China has launched the "Employee Assistance Program" to provide professional counseling and lectures to protect their 
physical and mental health.
The company regularly inspects and upgrades employees' 
protective equipment, carries out workplace safety reviews, 
and trains all employees on the correct equipment operation 
procedures and safety precautions. Through risk identification 
and analysis, it is concluded that there is no major occupational 
health and safety risk at the workplace.
Target Group Safety Management Measures
Restaurant 
Employeesl Carry out workplace safety checks to 
identify occupational health and safety 
risks, e.g. slip, fall, and severe weather
l Establish work specification for using oven 
and fryer and handling hot stuff and cargo 
etc. 
Logistics 
Centers 
Employeesl Set up full-time management personnel and 
develop a variety of tools to improve safety 
management capabilities
l Strengthen work safety training, and 
summarize and share work safety learning  
to foster employees' self-awareness
l Introduce the operation safety and CCTV 
surveillance system to strengthen safety 
behavior oversight
Ridersl Wear helmets, do pre-departure inspection 
on vehicles, and obey traffic rules to prevent 
injury 
Construction 
& Facility 
Contractorsl Provide formal safety training to construction 
& facility personnel
l Establish safety specifications to control 
risks at work, e.g. use of temporary electrical 
power, flammable material storage, 
construction and working at height
l Submit accident / incident / near-miss 
investigation reports, and summarize 
experience for management improvement
Safety and Health Management Measures of Yum China "Safety Mania" Posters of Yum ChinaSafety Mania
Yum China cares about the health and safety of each of 
our 450,000 employees. The company leverages monthly 
health and safety posters to display occupational risks 
in different settings and teach employees the correct 
ways of handling. Yum China also takes precautions and 
training sessions on personal safety, commuting safety, 
safety under severe weather, delivery safety, fire safety 
and food safety etc. to build employees’ awareness and 
improve their capacity for emergency response.
> In 2019
l Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) per million hours 
worked 1.08
l 100% of restaurant employees had health certificates
l 100% of restaurant management team and office 
employees covered by annual physical examinationENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX74Employee Compensation and Benefits 
Yum China is committed to providing every employee 
with fair and competitive remuneration and benefits, 
recognizing and rewarding their hard work and outstanding 
performance, and providing them with opportunities for 
rapid development. The Company has launched equity 
incentive schemes such as CEO Grant Award, Performance 
Stock Unit, and RGM Restricted Stock Unit to share the success 
of the company with employees. The Company also provides 
various benefits for employees and their families to alleviate 
their burden.
1 "3-Y ear Plan" for RGMs
RGMs hold the most important leadership positions, and 
play an indispensable role in promoting business growth 
and improving customer satisfaction. Therefore, Yum 
China has spared no efforts to invest in and train RGMs. We 
have provided RGMs with a competitive "Three-Year Plan" , 
including restricted stock unit, Family Care Program, and 
housing subsidies, to enhance their wellbeing and sense of 
belonging. After the plan was implemented, the turnover rate 
of RGMs has decreased significantly year on year.2 Family Care Fund for  
 Restaurant Management Team
Yum China will launch the “Restaurant Management Team 
(RMT) Family Care Fund” starting July 2020. The program 
is designed to provide additional health protection for 
family members of RMT employees, on top of the existing 
commercial insurance. RMT employees can participate on a 
voluntary basis with only a small yearly contribution to the 
fund. They are then entitled to additional coverage for critical 
illness for their parents as well as additional accident coverage 
for their children and spouse. The bulk of the remaining cost 
will be borne by the company. The new scheme will cover an 
estimated 86,000 parents, spouses and children of more than 
31,000 RMT employees.In 2018, Yum China launched the Family Care 
Program for RGMs, which is very popular with 
them and their families. Thereafter, we have been 
considering upgrading the program to provide 
health protection for more employees and families. 
Our RMT Family Care Fund shows our sincerity and 
commitment to employee care.
- Joey Wat
CEO of Yum China3 Flexible Benefit 
We provide flexibility for employees to make their own 
choices. In 2019, Yum China introduced "Baifuhui" , a flexible 
benefits system, which provides employees with a four-in-one 
benefits system, covering family insurance, family medical 
examination, employee activities and credits for e-commerce 
platform. Employees can tailor-make their benefits programs. 
Yum China’s "3-Year Plan" for RGMsY ear 1 
Stock Ownership 
Become a 
shareholder of 
the Company 
with granted 
restricted stockY ear 2 
Family Care 
RGM Family Care 
program extends 
care to RGMs’ 
family membersY ear 3
Housing Subsidy 
Supplementary 
Housing 
Subsidies Scheme 
aims to improve 
RGM’s living 
conditionsHEALTHCARE AND WELFARE ENHANCING ENGAGEMENT
The Flexible Benefit Platform Launched in 2019  
Enables Employees to Choose Benefits on Their Own
Number of Participants 2017 2018 2019
RGM RSU* 5,800+ 7,000+ 8,200+
Family Care Program 
(RGM / Family Member) -5,000+/ 
16,000+5,700+/ 
18,000+
RGM Housing Subsidies 2,500+ 2,900+ 3,300+
Turnover rate of RGMs 11% 11.6% 8.2%
* RSU: Restricted Stock UnitENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIX75HEALTHCARE AND WELFARE ENHANCING ENGAGEMENT
"People First" Philosophy Safeguarding Employees
Yum China strictly abides by all applicable laws and regulations. Based on the "People First" philosophy, the 
Company has formulated the Code of Conduct in respect and protection of employees' legitimate rights 
and interests. The CoC serves as the foundation for the Company's behaviors, businesses and operations. 
The annual mandatory compliance training keeps all the employees updated with the latest version. The 
whistle-blowing mechanism is set up for employees to report any compliance concerns with their identity 
protected.
Yum China’s Mechanisms and Measures to Protect Employees’ Rights
Protect Employees' Human Rights
P Abide by the laws and regulations of the countries and regions Yum China operates in, and 
formulate the Code of Conduct
P Sign formal labor contracts with all full-time employees
P Enforce equal pay for equal work, and prohibit forced labor
P Establish fair talent development mechanism, and prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, 
religion, color, age, gender, disability, military or veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, 
citizenship and national origin
Protect Employees' Welfare and Development 
P Based on annual market research, provide competitive salary and welfare in the industry, and 
provide pension insurance, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, work injury insurance, 
maternity insurance, etc.
P Conduct quarterly performance assessments, talents review and set up individual development 
goals, providing fair development platforms
P Set up special housing welfare policies, provide housing subsidies for employees, and improve 
their living conditions
P Implement a flexible working policy, allowing employees to adjust work hours according to their 
own situations
P Develop employee stock incentive mechanism and provide additional family health protection, 
including Family Care Program, for RGMs and RMTs
P Provide employees with paid annual leave, marriage leave, maternity leave (at least 98 days for 
female employees), paternity leave (at least 7 days for male employees), breastfeeding leave, 
family visitation leave and funeral leave
Protect Equal Communications
P Set up platforms such as "YUMC Corporate WeChat" and "Magic Box" to ensure efficient and 
transparent communication within the organization, and protect employees' rights to know
P Set up the website (www.yumchina.com/compliance) and hotline for employees to report any 
illegal or unethical behavior at work. Yum China’s asset protection department and human 
resources department will conduct special investigations to protect employees’ rights and 
interests
P Regularly conduct employee engagement surveys to understand employees' expectations and 
concerns
P Independent unions were established at all Yum China companies with the support of the  
All-China Federation of Trade Unions in 2010. All full-time employees are encouraged to join the 
unions, comply with the union regulations, carry out resolutions and actively participate in union 
activities.
P Continue to improve the employee representative system to safeguard the legitimate rights and 
interests of employees
Prohibit Child Labor and Protect Rights of Minors
P Conduct age and health due diligence checks prior to employment, and strictly prohibit the use of 
child labor and protect the rights of minors at Yum China and our suppliersENVIRONMENT YUMC COMMUNITY PEOPLE FOOD APPENDIXCOMMUNITY
CREATING FAR-REACHING AND  
POSITIVE SOCIAL IMPACT
Since entering China in 1987, we have been recognizing the value of the 
community and supporting its development. We are committed to being a good 
neighbor and integrated into the community development of shared interests 
with our portfolio brands, foods and employees.77OVERVIEW
Community Care 
Our employees volunteer no less than 1.5 million hours per yearOur Goal and CommitmentKey Material Issues Across the Value Chain
Sustainable Supply Chain Sustainable Restaurants Sustainable Community
Upstream Suppliers
l Poverty AlleviationSuppliers Logistics Restaurants
l Support Education 
 and Culture 
l Community Care Customers 
l Poverty Alleviation
l Community Care
l Sports and Health  
 Advocacy
l Public Awareness
 and EducationSustainability Background 
l In 2020, China is set to declare a decisive victory in its fight to eliminate absolute poverty. However, relative poverty 
remains a major challenge that requires a long-term commitment to poverty alleviation and development.
l In July 2019, the State Council issued the Opinions on Implementing Healthy China Initiative, established the Healthy 
China Promotion Committee, and issued the Healthy China Initiative Organization, Implementation and Assessment 
Plan and the Healthy China Action Plan (2019-2030) which includes residents' health literacy and physical exercise as 
important indicators. 
l In 2017, the report to the 19th CPC National Congress proposed to build a social governance model based on 
collaboration, participation and common interests, strengthen the community governance system, and see that the 
government’s governance efforts on the one hand, and the society’s self-regulation and residents’ self-governance 
on the other, reinforce each other. Enterprises are one of the important players of community governance, and 
participating in urban community governance can contribute to community development and improve the social 
influence of enterprises.
l After the establishment of World Reading Day in 1995, China followed the international call to advocate reading. 
The latest national reading survey by the China Academy of Press and Publication shows that China's national 
reading rate continues to edge up, reflecting the people's growing reading demand. 
Contribution to the SDGs
High Relevance Medium RelevanceENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
78OUR PATHWAY  
Materiality Topic Our Direction Progress in 2019 
Poverty Alleviation Improve the development of poverty-
stricken areas and the nutrition of 
poverty-stricken childrenl In 2019, the One Yuan Donation program raised over  
       18 million yuan from about 180 suppliers and over 
       8.2 million online and offline customers. It donated 
       4.59 million nutritious meals and modern kitchens to 
       105 schools
l The Grow Local Initiative purchased more than 435 tons 
       of high-quality products from poverty-stricken areas in 
       2019
Care for Special Groups Address the educational needs of special 
groups and communitiesl As of the end of 2019, the KFC Little Migratory Birds 
       Fund had donated reading corners to more than 1,600
       communities and schools where left-behind and 
       migratory children live, benefitting about 1.5 million  
       people
l As of the end of 2019, Yum China had donated over
       110 million yuan to the KFC First Light Fund, helping
       over 14,000 college students in 68 universities in 30 cities      
Community Care Become a good neighbor in the 
community, care for every community 
resident and promote harmonious 
community relationsl KFC's School After 4:30pm program organized 370  
       activities for 7,319 participants in 21 cities in 2019
l As of the end of 2019, Pizza Hut’s Public Reading program         
       had been expanded to 68 restaurants in 16 cities
l More than 10,000 charity meals were delivered to        
       medical and other frontline workers in 2019
l As of the end of 2019, KFC had distributed over        
       65 million books to customers and hosted more than 
       650,000 storytelling sessions
Healthy Lifestyles 
AdvocacyPromote the eating-exercise balance 
concept, and encourage customers to 
accept and adopt a balanced diet and 
healthy lifestylel The KFC 3x3 Basketball Championship launched in 
       54 cities, attracting more than 200,000 players in 2019
l In 2019, KFC supported 21 marathons, with more than 
       2,100 runners joining K-Run teams, and over 12,000 
       families participating in family runs
Public Awareness and 
EducationPromote Chinese traditional culture  
and spread positive impactl Continued to set up culture theme restaurants
l Yum China donated 10 million yuan to the China Internet 
       Development Foundation's "Internet Positive Energy" 
       special fund to promote a positive and healthy internet 
       cultureOur Management Approach 
Leveraging our resources and scale, we address the needs of poverty-stricken areas and special groups as well as the 
communities in which we operate; we continuously give back to the society through innovation and long-term investment, 
and advocate public welfare by and for everyone to generate positive social impact.
Target Setting We set targets according to employees’ voluntary service hours and continuously track them.
Way of WorkingWe mobilize restaurant employees and suppliers to volunteer in community projects and engage 
suppliers and community residents.
Key Projects Poverty alleviation, education and culture, community care, and sports and health advocacy projects.ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
792019 marked the 12th year of One Yuan Donation program. In the past 12 years, Yum China and 
CFPA have raised more than 210 million yuan in donations. With continuous breakthroughs 
and innovations, the One Yuan Donation program has added the brightest charity touch to 
each summer. We will continue to work with Yum China to carry out this program, and make it 
a poverty alleviation brand with even wider influence and stronger credibility. 
- Wang Xingzui, Executive Vice President of CFPA
Over the past 12 years, we have been continuously exploring opportunities to innovate.  
We have mobilized the whole society to contribute in innovative ways, from offline and online 
donation to V Gold Donation.
-Joey Wat, CEO of Yum ChinaSUPPORTING TARGETED POVERTY ALLEVIATION IN INNOVATIVE WAYS
Eliminating poverty in all its forms remains one of the major challenges facing mankind and poverty alleviation is a  
top priority for the Chinese government. Yum China has leveraged its advantages in resources and channels to improve 
the nutrition and industrial development in poverty-stricken areas. This includes improving the nutrition of children in 
underprivileged areas and supporting local industry development that helps communities eliminate poverty.
> In 2019
l Raised over 18 million yuan from about 180 suppliers and 
over 8.2 million customers online and offline
l Donated Modern Kitchen to 105 schools, and 4.59 million 
nutritious meals to students
> From inception to the end of 2019
l Had raised over 210 million yuan, of which Yum China 
and employees donated more than 49 million yuan, and 
suppliers donated about 1.9 million yuan
l Had provided a total of 46.49 million nutritious meals for 
students, modern kitchen equipment to 1,078 schools, 
and benefited 686,000 students
l Had covered 13 provinces and autonomous regions, 
including Sichuan, Yunnan, Guizhou, Hubei, Guangxi, 
Hunan, Fujian, Hebei, Xinjiang, Heilongjiang, Gansu, 
Ningxia, and Shaanxi
Representatives of the Company’s Management Visit  
Students Benefitting from the One Yuan Donation Program in Gansu.
Joey Wat, CEO  of Yum China, Introduces the  
One Yuan Donation Program to Customers.Children Enjoy Nutritious 
Meals.
V Gold Donation1 “One Yuan Donation” Plus Digital 
 Technology for Poverty Alleviation  
 by Improving Nutrition
Following the National Nutrition Plan (2017-
2030) issued by the State Council, nutritional 
improvement in poverty-stricken areas has 
been designated as a major action item. 
In 2008, Yum China and China Foundation 
for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) jointly launched the One 
Yuan Donation program. Yum China has called for everyone 
online and offline to create a friendly and caring community 
platform, making donations for the healthy growth of the 
children in impoverished regions. The program has received 
support from multiple stakeholders including employees, 
customers and suppliers. In 2019, we launched the V Gold 
Donation Campaign online, and encouraged over 200 million 
members of KFC and Pizza Hut to donate their reward points 
(V Gold) for charity.ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
80StorySUPPORTING TARGETED POVERTY ALLEVIATION IN INNOVATIVE WAYS
l The Upgraded Modern Kitchen
In 2019, the One Yuan Donation program donated modern 
kitchen equipment, and upgraded kitchen operations, making 
it easier to run and prevent food safety incidents.
l “One Yuan Donation” T-Shirt Design Campaign
In 2019, Yum China initiated a T-shirt design campaign for 
the One Yuan Donation program across China. This campaign 
gave full play to creative talents to integrate “love” and 
“fashion” into T-shirt design and was very popular on social 
media.l The Upgraded "One Yuan Man"
In 2019, the One Yuan Donation program upgraded the 
image of "One Yuan Man" and designed cartoon stickers of 
it, to relate to participants, and pay tribute to the traditional 
Chinese culture advocating "goodness" and "hero" .
Aware that a single company’s power is limited, we would 
like more like-minded peers to join us and business partners 
to go beyond business and extend into charity.
- Joey Wat
CEO of Yum China“One Yuan Donation” Charity Lunch
In April 2019, Yum China held a charity lunch for the first 
time at the Supply Chain Partners Convention, sharing 
the progress of the One Yuan Donation program in 
the last 12 years and how the program has benefited 
children. Supplier partners were invited to join this 
charity-minded team. 
 Joey Wat, CEO  of Yum China, Handed Over the Suppliers’ Donation to  
Wang Xingzui, Executive Vice President of CFPA .Scan to Explore  
“One Yuan Donation” Visit to Gansu
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
812 Grow Local Initiative - Teaching People to Fish and
 Empowering the Local Economy
Boosting the development of local industry is one of the most 
effective ways to fight poverty. Believing that "teaching a man 
to fish is better than giving him a fish" , Yum China launched 
the Grow Local Initiative in 2018. The Initiative leverages 
Yum China’s advantages in supply chain and food innovation 
“from farm to fork” to increase farmers' income and visibility 
of quality products from the supported areas. In addition, 
Yum China cooperates with local governments to bring more 
advanced technologies and concepts and provide technical 
support for local industrial development and poverty 
alleviation.
In 2019, Yum China purchased dragon fruits from Zhenfeng, 
Guizhou and pears from Dangshan, Anhui, developed 
products made of them, and thus drove the development of 
local industry. In the future, we will provide training sessions 
for local farmers, promote scientific planting, and increase the 
yield.We believe it is more important to empower poor 
areas than simple financial assistance. We combine 
‘targeted poverty alleviation’ with ‘food development’ 
by developing high-quality materials from aided areas 
into products to help the local realize sustainable 
development. We also raise the popularity of high 
quality products in poor areas through our 9,200 
offline restaurants and more than 200 million online 
members. We promote local economic development by 
'teaching them how to fish'.
- Alice Wang 
Chief Public Affairs Officer of Yum ChinaSUPPORTING TARGETED POVERTY ALLEVIATION IN INNOVATIVE WAYS
Anhui Dangshan Pear
Pear Oolong Drinks
Yunnan Flowers
Rose Cake
Yunnan Truffles
Truffle Pizza
Guizhou Dragon Fruit 
Dragon Fruit Drinks
Empower the Endogenous Development of Local Areas
Local Products
Develop local high quality 
resources based on local 
conditionsIndustry
Drive local sustainable 
development and increase 
farmers’ incomeStandardization
Rely on the Company’s strong 
supply chain systems  
and food innovation
Dining Tables
Our restaurant networks 
across ChinaENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
82StoryLEVERAGING EDUCATION AND CULTURE TO STRENGTHEN SOCIAL COHESION
Educational equity and innovation are the key to foster the backbone of society. Yum China focuses on supporting 
teenagers’ healthy growth and creating educational equity for children and youth. The Company leverages its core values 
of sustainable development to contribute to the inheritance and development of traditional and national culture, and 
enhance cultural confidence by constantly enriching cultural content and innovating in forms of communication. Yum 
China presents diverse cultures in restaurants, enabling customers to experience different cultures while enjoying food.
Promoting Equal Education
Yum China cares about the educational needs of poor students, and mobilizes its resources to help alleviate poverty, with a focus 
on education development.
1 Exploring Educational Poverty Alleviation by 
 Distance Learning 
It is the aspiration of every child and the whole society to 
access fair and high quality education. Yum China cooperates 
with external experts to spread the latest knowledge and 
skills among children, for example via launching a coding 
program. In 2019, in partnership with Leap Learner, we 
launched "Online Coding Education" in remote and poor areas 
covered by the One Yuan Donation program to help children 
master basic IT knowledge by promoting courses, training 
local teachers and donating software and hardware needed. 
In the future, Yum China will continue the targeted education 
support,  involve more in IT education and contribute to the 
national poverty alleviation through education. 2 Caring for Students from Underprivileged 
 Families 
Yum China has always been committed to "serving the youth, 
helping them grow up, and opening up more possibilities for 
them" , and has long been actively participating in the Hope 
Project. We established the KFC First Light Fund in 2002 to 
help students from underprivileged family background to 
complete college education and realize their potential. 
The program created an integrated model for “receiving 
help - helping yourself - helping others” . Apart from 
providing scholarships, the program also provides part-
time opportunities for students with outstanding academic 
performance so that they could earn money to cover their 
daily expenses. 
Then First Light Commune was established, providing First 
Light scholars a platform to serve the society. Every year, First 
Light Commune in more than 30 Chinese universities plans 
and implements social service projects, encouraging students 
to give back to the society and help others.
> In 2019
l Provided assistance to 1,612 university students
l Provided assistance to 11 social service projects launched 
by First Light Commune
l Yum China KFC was awarded "Outstanding Contributor 
for 30 Years of Hope Project" , and 5 First Light scholars 
awarded “Hope Star of 30 Years of Hope Project” .
> From inception to the end of 2019
l Had donated over 110 million yuan. Had financially 
supported over 14,000 impoverished college students 
from 68 universities in 30 cities.
First Light Scholars
Yum China Donated the First Audiovisual Classroom Yum China Brings Cutting 
- Edge Knowledge to Children
Xiazhongtan Primary School is located in Huining 
County, a nationally designated poor county in Gansu 
Province, and a beneficiary school of the One Yuan 
Donation program. Learning about its lack of computers 
for teaching, Yum China donated a batch of computers 
to the school in August 2019, equipped classrooms with 
modern audiovisual equipment, and co-launched the 
online coding course from September with Leap Learner. 
This course combines programming with mathematics, 
English, art, science and other disciplines through lively 
activities.ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
83Story3 Caring For Left-Behind and Migrant Children
In China, the education of left-behind and migrant children 
has always been a focus of social attention. Yum China is 
committed to caring for left-behind and migrant children. 
In 2016, Yum China set up the KFC Little Migratory Birds 
Fund, donated book corners, held story-telling sessions and 
organized themed activities for migrant children. In 2019, 
Yum China piloted a program to help “Little Migratory Birds” 
in various ways such as psychological counseling, family 
education, psychological group training and safety education. 
Activities took place in Jilin, Liaoning, Tianjin and Zhejiang 
provinces.LEVERAGING EDUCATION AND CULTURE TO STRENGTHEN SOCIAL COHESION
> In 2019
l Attracted more than 1,900 volunteers with nearly 10,000 
hours of volunteer service
l Donated approximately 150,000 books
> From inception to the end of 2019
l Had donated book corners to more than 1,800 
communities and schools where left-behind and migrant 
children gathered
l Had benefited about 2 million "Little Migratory Birds" .
l Had donated a total of about 370,000 children's books to 
book corners nationwide, with more to come
l Had held over 300 story-telling sessions for “Little 
Migratory Birds” and related activities in KFC restaurants in 
more than 100 cities
l KFC "Story Tellers" and volunteers had told stories and 
accompanied "Little Migratory Birds" for nearly 40,000 
hours.Audio Reading for Children
KFC co-launched the “Audio Reading for Children” project 
with Guangzhou Children's Library and Guangzhou 
Museum, providing “Little Migratory Birds” access to 
audio reading and knowledge.
Helping Left-Behind and Migrant Children  
to Realize Their Dreams on Stage
"Little Migratory Birds" are the children left behind by their 
parents, and tend to be timid and sensitive due to early 
assumption of family burden. In order to help them grow 
in a healthy and happy manner, Yum China through pop 
art encourages them to express themselves and articulate 
their feelings. 
In 2019, the China Children and Teenagers' Fund and 
KFC Little Migratory Birds Fund co-hosted the 2019 
Happy Summer Study Camp to raise children's power 
of expression and confidence through forms of artistic 
expression. For this purpose, professional performers from 
Mahua FunAge, a well-known Chinese stage performance 
brand, were invited to coach 15 "Little Migratory Birds" on 
stage performance. At the end of the Camp, 50 left-behind 
and migrant children from 11 provinces and cities staged a 
performance for their parents and teachers to exhibit what 
they had learnt confidently and bravely.Story
This activity is a concrete measure that implements 
the requirement of All-China Women's Federation in 
caring for left-behind children in summer vacation. 
It is also a special gift carefully prepared by China 
Children and Teenagers' Fund and the three-year-
old KFC Little Migratory Birds Fund for children. The 
Camp accommodates traditional culture and the 
characteristics of the times, and enables children to 
broaden their horizons, increase their knowledge and 
improve their mental outlook.
- Zhu Xisheng, 
Secretary General of China Children and Teenagers' Fund
A Fulfilling and Rewarding Summer Camp for Children
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
84Promoting Reading In Communities
Yum China, a good neighbor of the community, based on its 
stores nationwide and unique products, has built online 
reading platforms and offline reading spaces, encouraged 
reading through multiple channels, and provided reading and 
exchange space for families in the community.
1 KFC Kid’s Book Club
Reading is an important means to help children increase 
their experience and knowledge about the world. KFC, one of 
children’s favorite brands, encourages children to read while 
serving delicious food. We launched the KFC Kid’s Book Club 
in 2016, distributing selected children’s books along with  
Kid’s Meals. In 2017, we released the Reading List for little 
bookworms and the Guidance for Children's Reading by the 
Kid’s Book Club to help improve children’s reading quality.  
In 2019, we expanded the yearly children's reading list 
(including 131 children's books), to cultivate children’s 
scientific thinking. In addition, KFC regularly organizes free 
story-telling sessions in restaurants nationwide. Meanwhile, 
KFC records a batch of high-quality audio books and 
promotes parent-child reading online.
2 Pizza Hut Public Reading Program
In 2018, Yum China launched the Pizza Hut Public Reading 
Program nationwide. Pizza Hut set up a public reading 
platform through its restaurants nationwide. Through online 
and offline activities, as well as multi-channel crossovers, 
people can enjoy reading while having nice meals with 
friends. By the end of 2019, the Public Reading Program had 
been expanded to 16 cities to benefit more people.> From inception to the end of 2019
l KFC Kid’s Book Club had distributed more than 65 million 
books for children with Kid's Meals, and had held over 
650,000 story-telling sessions.
l Pizza Hut Public Reading Program had been expanded to 
68 restaurants in 16 cities, with more than 50,000 books in 
collection.
Night Reading in Chengdu
Pizza Hut and Chengdu High-tech District Library jointly 
launched the “High-tech District Library - Pizza Hut 
Public Reading Space” , the first public reading project in 
Sichuan Province. The project aims to promote nationwide 
reading, and provide convenient access to public library 
services. Pizza Hut designated a reading space for 
allowing customers to enjoy food and reading at the same 
time. As Pizza Hut has long business hours, the project 
contributed to 2019 Fun in Chengdu at Autumn Nights.A Chengdu Customer 
Scans the QR Code 
to Listen to Radio 
Books in Pizza Hut’s 
Public Reading Theme 
Restaurant . 
Chengdu Pizza Hut’s Public Reading Theme Restaurant
LEVERAGING EDUCATION AND CULTURE TO STRENGTHEN SOCIAL COHESION
StoryPizza Hut Public Reading Theme Restaurants with Various Styles
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
85Paying Tribute to Traditional Culture
Yum China has developed in China for more than 30 years, and has been an innovative pioneer of cultural integration. With a 
global mind and a Chinese heart, we take facilitating the inheritance of Chinese traditional culture as our own duty. We exert  
our restaurants and market resources to explore the integration between traditional culture and modern life.
1 Paying Tribute to Chinese Classics
KFC and the National Museum of China have been in 
partnership to launch a series of activities entitled "National 
Treasure Shining China" and "China on Fingertips" since 2018. 
National Treasures are “brought to life” by modern technology. 
KFC decorated its restaurants to embody such themes as 
history, culture and traditional arts across the country, to 
engage customers and young people. KFC has specially 
designed three New Year buckets featuring intangible cultural 
heritage, namely "Splendid Scenery Painting Bucket" (Jin Xiu 
Shan Shui Miao Jin), "Happiness and Fortunes Famille-Rose 
Bucket" (Wan Fu Ru Yi Fen Cai) and "Fortune and Joy Famille-
Rose Bucket" (Fu Qing You Yu Fen Cai). The bucket designs 
pass on the best wishes for the New Year embodied in the 
Chinese traditional culture.
KFC Popularizes the National Treasures Through  
Bucket Designs Featuring Intangible Cultural Heritage.
LEVERAGING EDUCATION AND CULTURE TO STRENGTHEN SOCIAL COHESION
Imperial Afternoon Tea
In 2019, Pizza Hut and Regards from the Emperor - 
the Palace Museum Food jointly launched "Imperial 
Afternoon Tea" , which incorporated Chinese royal snacks 
into Western afternoon tea. During the promotion 
period, Pizza Hut provided exclusive "imperial" services 
to customers ordering the "Imperial Afternoon Tea" , 
bringing Chinese palace culture and festival customs to 
its Western-style casual restaurants.2 Inheriting Classical Culture
To bring traditional Chinese culture closer to more Chinese 
families and the younger generation, since 2016, KFC has 
partnered with Shanghai Animation Film Studio Co. Ltd. 
to promote Chinese cartoon. In 2019, KFC supported the 
production of the documentary Guardians of Chinese Cartoon 
which documents how The Legend of Sealed Book was 
restored, and the endurance of staff in Shanghai Animation 
Film Studio on the cultural heritage of Chinese cartoon. The 
documentary helps the audience understand the essence of 
Chinese cartoon, and calls for the protection of Chinese 
cartoon and traditional Chinese culture and crafts.
The Legend of Sealed Book
KFC released limited-edition toys based on The Legend of 
Sealed Book. The toys add lively and lovely elements to 
the opera facial makeup, which fully integrates traditional 
aesthetics with trendy fashion, and effectively spreads 
classic traditional Chinese culture in a way that appeals to 
the young generation.
Story StoryENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
863 Integrating into the Local Culture
In cooperation with local museums, Yum China has launched 
theme restaurants to enhance community influence and 
services, and spread Chinese culture. In addition, KFC and 
Pizza Hut continue to seek ways to integrate traditional 
culture, and launch more theme restaurants featuring more 
diverse and distinct cultures by drawing inspiration from 
local and national cultures, to contribute to building cultural 
confidence.
In Partnership with the Anthropology Museum of Guangxi, KFC  
Launched A Theme Restaurant Dedicated to Guangxi’s Ethnic Culture. "Bronze Drum and Cute Beast" (Tong Gu 
Meng Shou) Coffee, A Creative Coffee 
Product that Features the Bronze Drum, 
A Signature Cultural Element of Guangxi
 "Silk Road Ruyi" Theme Restaurant
The Gansu Provincial Museum is a must-visit place for 
tourists and citizens in Lanzhou where KFC launched the 
"Silk Road Ruyi" theme restaurant in partnership with the 
Museum to tell stories of culture through delicious food.
By displaying replicas of museum collections and 
exquisite posters of cultural relics, the KFC Silk Road Ruyi 
restaurant employs online and offline means to showcase 
Gansu’s Silk Road culture.
KFC is a leading brand in the restaurant industry.  
By working with KFC, we 'move' the Silk Road culture 
to its restaurants, which plays a positive role in 
popularizing Silk Road culture and enables the public 
to understand Gansu province better.
- Jia Jianwei 
Director of Gansu Provincial Museum
KFC  Built A Mini-Museum by Displaying Replica 
and Posters of Cultural Relics.
LEVERAGING EDUCATION AND CULTURE TO STRENGTHEN SOCIAL COHESION
Story
Chao Opera Culture Theme 
Restaurant in Shantou 
Hui Culture Theme Restaurant
 in Hefei
Chu Culture Theme Restaurant
 in Wuhan 
Culture Theme Restaurant  
in Yangzhou
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
87Yum China always insists on giving back to the society, and always remembers its original commitment to be a good  
neighbor in the community. We are committed to caring for and improving people's lives, and building harmonious 
communities with sincerity and actions in line with the specific conditions of the communities.
Yum China opens restaurants and offers a wide range of services in a large number of communities of various types. Its 
restaurants act as a carrier of emotional bonds rooted in China’s national situation and culture to promote the physical and 
mental health of community residents and safeguard their safety and family harmony. In 2019, more efforts were made to 
further the KFC VCare School After 4:30pm program for community children and the KFC Morning Dream program through 
which customers can make donations to sanitary and grassroots workers when purchasing a meal.
1 “School After 4:30pm”  
Yum China has extended KFC VCare School After 4:30pm program to primary school students with two working parents, those 
from poor families, and those whose parents are migrant workers. We provide them spaces for public activity after school in 
restaurants and community service centers so that they don’t need to return to an empty home. This program promotes the 
physical and mental development of children, and helps build harmonious and friendly communities.
BEING A GOOD NEIGHBOR IN THE COMMUNITY BY ADDRESSING ITS NEEDS  
> In 2019
l Organized 370 “School After 4:30pm” activities in 21 cities with 7,319 participants
“Wandering Earth” in “School After 4:30pm”
The scientific and technological elements in Wandering 
Earth showed in 2019 triggers young people’s profound 
interests in future science and technology. Zhengzhou 
KFC kept pace with the times, and opened the only 
two restaurants themed on Wandering Earth in China. 
The theme restaurants spread science and technology 
knowledge in School After 4:30pm program.
In 2019, Zhengzhou KFC gathered students of Maker 
Team from Zhengzhou No.8 Middle School and some 
"Little Migratory Birds" to the theme restaurants and 
invited experts to explain the AI technology used in the 
movie, and discussed the development, challenges and 
future of AI. The movie’s director Frant Gwo recorded an 
inspiring video message for the students.Children Chanting Poems
There is a long tradition of chanting poems and essays 
in China. It was included in the Working Plan for the 13th 
Five-Year Plan Period by the Ministry of Education and 
the State Language Commission in 2016. In 2019, KFC 
and Du Fu Thatched Cottage Museum jointly carried 
out "Children Chanting Poems in Thatched Cottage" , a 
traditional chanting activity in KFC Tianfu Jinxiu theme 
restaurant, as the debut of School After 4:30pm program 
in Chengdu to accommodate students who have 
nowhere else to go after their school closes at 4:30pm. 
Since then, many primary and secondary school students 
have visited there after school, to learn and understand 
more about the excellent traditional Chinese culture.
A Sci-Fi Experience 
in Wandering Earth Theme Restaurants
A Traditional Chanting Activity  
in KFC  Tianfu Jinxiu Theme Restaurant
Story StoryENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
882 Morning Dream Program
In terms of social services, Yum China extends more care 
to city guardians, including ordinary workers in special 
posts. The KFC Morning Dream program in Zhengzhou has 
encouraged customers to buy complimentary breakfast for 
sanitary workers for five consecutive years. In other cities, the 
Company has been dedicated to sending meals to workers 
in summer and winter, or in holidays. The Company provides 
delicious food to help everyone in the community to kick off 
their day of serving the city.3 Providing Jobs for Women
In 2017, KFC piloted the Mom Restaurants for "Little Migratory 
Birds" in Chongqing and Changsha of Hunan province, to 
give preference to hiring mothers of “Little Migratory Birds” 
who used to work away from home and had to leave children 
behind. Up to now, the program has been launched in more 
than 260 KFC restaurants, including those in Henan province, 
offering job opportunities for mothers who choose to come 
back to stay with their children.
The Mom Restaurants for Little Migratory Birds 
program is a practical measure that provides female 
migrant workers the opportunity to work nearby 
their children so that they could better balance 
their work and family life. I hope the project will 
be extended to more provinces and cities in the 
future to bring more migrant parents home to 'little 
migratory birds' .
- Xu Xiaoguang
Director of the International Department of  
China Children and Teenagers' FundLaunches “Mom Restaurants for Little Migratory Birds” ,  
and Calls for Parent-Child Reunion 
BEING A GOOD NEIGHBOR IN THE COMMUNITY BY ADDRESSING ITS NEEDS  
“Mom Restaurants for Little Migratory Birds”
On May 27, 2019, KFC officially opened the first 
KFC "Mom Restaurant for Little Migratory Birds" in 
Zhengzhou, Henan Province. The restaurant prioritizes 
jobs for mothers of “Little Migratory Birds” who used to 
work away from home and had to leave children behind. 
The restaurant has recruited many such female migrant 
workers, so that they could spend more time with 
children. Story
Morning Dream Program in Zhengzhou
Free Meals for Frontline Workers
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
895 Online Charity
Being close to customers and young people online and 
offline, Yum China employs digital technology to promote 
positive energy on the Internet through "integrated 
innovation" , and trigger customers' enthusiasm for public 
welfare. During the 2019 World Internet Conference, Yum 
China signed a donation agreement with the China Internet 
Development Foundation, and donated 10 million yuan to 
the latter’s "Internet Public Welfare” special fund. We also 
work actively in integrating charity resources, developing and 
pledging for a positive impact on the Internet, and to produce 
more far-reaching benefits for more people.
Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China, delivered a keynote speech on the 
theme of “Innovation to Promote the Development of Online Charity 
and Promote Public Welfare on the Internet”  
at Online Charity Forum during the 6th World Internet Conference.4 Employees’ Participation in Community Activities
Yum China encourages employees to explore their potential  
and leverage their expertise through CSR activities. It has 
organized various long-term public welfare projects for 
employees to volunteer, encouraging them to promote 
sustainable social development together with the Company.
A Beautiful Kitchen Specially Designed for Blind Children.  
The Colorful Balloons and Paper Decorations and the  
Modern Interior Design Are Visible to Children with Poor Vision.
With the Strong Support of Yum China CEO Joey Wat,  
Yum China’s Innovation Center Organized Its  
First Public Welfare Activity for Blind Children.BEING A GOOD NEIGHBOR IN THE COMMUNITY BY ADDRESSING ITS NEEDS 
Yum China will take advantage of digitalization, 
combine the times and the needs of young people, 
and promote the positive energy of the network in the 
form of ‘integration and innovation’ . The Company will 
contribute more to a shared cyberspace community.
- Joey Wat
CEO of Yum ChinaYum China Innovation Center  
Presents Unique Courses to Blind Children
When God closes a door, he will open a window for you. 
Blind children cannot explore the world through their 
eyes, but they are sensitive to smell, curious and eager 
to learn. To meet their curiosity, on March 23, 2019, 
Yum China Innovation Center and its partners invited 
the children from Shanghai Blind Children's School and 
their parents to visit the Center. We taught children how 
to make delicious food such as hamburgers and pizzas, 
and enjoyed pleasure brought by delicious food and 
knowledge.StoryENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
90ADVOCATING HEALTHY LIFESTYLES AND SPORTSMANSHIP
Yum China actively responds to the national strategy of Healthy China, and takes it as a duty to advocate "a balanced, 
nutritious diet, and eating-exercise balance" lifestyles. We take the initiative to organize sports competitions, help more 
young people realize their dreams, live a healthy lifestyle and develop pro-health habits from an early age. We also 
actively support various sports events, such as City Marathon, Tennis Masters, to expand influence from restaurants to the 
community, encourage community residents to do exercises and keep fit, and spread the sportsmanship. 
In 2019, supported by the China School Sports Federation and Chinese Basketball Association, the KFC 3x3 Basketball 
Championship was upgraded by merging the KFC 3x3 Basketball Championship with the Chinese School 3x3 Basketball 
League.
KFC 's Little Navigators
OP sailing is the only juvenile sailing program in China. 
It not only develops children's hands-on ability, but also 
increases their knowledge, and allows them to enjoy the 
fun of sports. Since 2017, KFC has held four consecutive 
editions of the Youth Sailing Camp and trained nearly 300 
participants for free.
In 2019, KFC launched the third and fourth editions of 
Sailing Camp to advocate "eating-exercise balance" to 
more people through water sports. KFC taught students 
aged 8 to 10 with no sailing skills in 12 basic sailing 
lessons via the KFC School After 4:30pm program. Nearly 
half of the students reached Level 1 of OP sailing.
KFC  K-Run Teams in Marathons Nationwide
 KFC 3x3 Basketball Championship
Pizza Hut Children’s Charity Football Match 
Forges Sportsmanship and Charity
In 2018, Pizza Hut and Wuhan Football League jointly 
launched a children's charity football match. The purpose 
is to strengthen the foundation of cultivating young 
footballers, encourage children to enjoy football, and 
forge their sportsmanship. In 2019, a sharing salon 
featuring “water resources protection” was held at 
the break of the football match to enhance children’s 
awareness of water protection. The combination of sports 
and charity highlighted the influence and charity of the 
match.Story Story> In 2019
l KFC 3x3 Basketball Championship attracted the participation of more than 200,000 players in 54 cities.
l KFC supported 21 marathons, with over 2,100 runners joining K-Run teams. More than 12,000 families participated in family runs.ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
91APPENDIX  93KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicators Unit 2018 2019
FOOD
Restaurant Food Safety and Quality Audits 
 (i.e. Operational Excellence Checks)*1times 16,800+ 17,000+
Product Checks on Main Menu Items times 4,000+ 3,400+
Food Safety and Quality Audits on Suppliers times 490+ 590+
ENVIRONMENT
Total Electricity Consumption MWh 2,814,731 2,870,997
Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions tCO2e 1,925,391 1,956,072 
Total Water Consumption tons 26,395,764 27,602,012 
Average Restaurant Electricity Consumption MWh 358 342
Average Restaurant Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions tCO2e 245 233
Average Restaurant Water Consumption tons 3,362 3,284
Amount of Paper and Plastic Packaging Reduction tons 9,000 9,000+
Percentage of RSPO-certified Palm Oil % 100% 100%
Percentage of CSR Audited Critical Suppliers % 100% 100%
Local Suppliers as % of Total Suppliers % 98.4% 98.7%
PEOPLE
Female Share of Total Workforce % 61.2% 61.5%
Female Share of Total Management*2 Workforce % 59% 54%
Turnover Rate of RGMs % 11.6% 8.2%
Training Investment per Capita RMB 2,043 ~2,000
Training Hour per Capita hours 59 60
Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for Employeesn/million hours 
worked0.99 1.08
COMMUNITY
Employees Volunteer Time hours 1,500,000+ 1,500,000+
* 1 The restaurant must complete the food safety and quality audit within 3 months since opening.
* 2 Director and aboveENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
94This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
General 
DisclosuresIntroduction Chapter Page Note
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the Organization Overview P9
102-2Activities, Brands, Products, and 
ServicesOverview P9
102-3 Location of Headquarters Overview P9
102-4 Location of Operations Overview P9
102-5 Ownership and Legal Form Overview P9
102-6 Markets Served Overview P9
102-7 Scale of the Organization Overview P9
102-8Information on Employees, and  
Other WorkersOverview P9
102-9 Supply Chain Building An Intelligent Supply Chain
A Sustainable Supply ChainP36
P58
102-10Significant Changes to the 
Organization and Its Supply ChainOverview P9
102-11 Precautionary Principle or Approach Corporate Governance P14
102-12 External Initiatives Strategy and Governance P17
102-13 Membership of AssociationsJoining Stakeholders to  
Build A Healthy ChinaP40
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from Senior Decision-Maker Remarks by Yum China CEO P4
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16Values, Principles, Standards, and 
Norms of BehaviorCorporate Governance P14
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance Structure Corporate Governance P14
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of Stakeholder Groups Stakeholder Engagement P19
102-41 Collective Bargaining AgreementsHealthcare and Welfare  
Enhancing EngagementP75GRI CONTENT INDEX ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
95GRI CONTENT INDEX
General 
DisclosuresIntroduction Chapter Page Note
102-42 Identifying and Selecting Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement P19
102-43 Approach to Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement P19
102-44 Key Topics and Concerns Raised Stakeholder Engagement P19
REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45Entities Included in the Consolidated 
Financial StatementsAbout this Report P6
102-46Defining Report Content and Topic 
BoundariesMateriality Assessment P20
102-47 List of Material Topics Materiality Assessment P21
102-48 Restatements of Information -No material restatements 
of information provided in 
previous reports
102-49 Changes in Reporting About this Report P6
102-50 Reporting Period About this Report P6
102-51 Date of Most Recent Report About this Report P6
102-52 Reporting Cycle About this Report P6
102-53Contact Point for Questions Regarding 
the Report About this Report P6
102-54Claims of Reporting in accordance 
with the GRI Standards About this Report
GRI Content IndexP6
P95
102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index P95
102-56 External Assurance Assurance Report P101
ECONOMIC
GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
its BoundaryEnvironment
A Sustainable Supply ChainP47
P58
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsEnvironment
A Sustainable Supply ChainP47
P58
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
204-1Proportion of Spending on Local 
SuppliersA Sustainable Supply Chain P60
GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
its BoundaryPeople
Healthcare and Welfare  
Enhancing Engagement P63
P75ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
96GRI CONTENT INDEX
General 
DisclosuresIntroduction Chapter Page Note
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsPeople
Healthcare and Welfare  
Enhancing Engagement P63
P75
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
205-2Communication and Training 
About Anti-Corruption Policies and 
ProceduresHealthcare and Welfare  
Enhancing Engagement P75
ENVIRONMENTAL  
GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryEnvironment
Packaging and Waste StewardshipP47
P53
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsEnvironment
Packaging and Waste StewardshipP47
P53
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
301-1 Materials Used by Weight or Volume Packaging and Waste Stewardship P54
GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryEnvironment
Acting On Climate ChangeP47
P49
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsEnvironment
Acting On Climate ChangeP47
P49
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
302-1Energy Consumption within the 
OrganizationActing On Climate Change P49
302-3 Energy Intensity Acting On Climate Change P49
302-4 Reduction of Energy Consumption Acting On Climate Change P49
302-5Reductions in Energy Requirements of 
Products and ServicesActing On Climate Change P52
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryEnvironment
Acting On Climate ChangeP47
P51
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsEnvironment
Acting On Climate ChangeP47
P51
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
303-1Interactions with Water as a Shared 
ResourceActing On Climate Change P51ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
97GRI CONTENT INDEX
General 
DisclosuresIntroduction Chapter Page Note
GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016    
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryEnvironment
Acting On Climate ChangeP47
P49
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsEnvironment
Acting On Climate ChangeP47
P49
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy And Governance P17
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions Acting On Climate Change P49
305-4 GHG Emissions Intensity Acting On Climate Change P49
GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryEnvironment
Packaging and Waste StewardshipP47
P53
103-2The management Approach and Its 
ComponentsEnvironment
Packaging and Waste StewardshipP47
P53
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
306-2 Waste by Type and Disposal Method Packaging and Waste Stewardship P54
GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryEnvironment
Packaging and Waste StewardshipP47
P54
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsEnvironment
Packaging and Waste StewardshipP47
P53
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
307-1Non-compliance with Environmental 
Laws and Regulations-No major violation of 
environmental laws and 
regulations
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryEnvironment
A Sustainable Supply ChainP47
P58
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsEnvironment
A Sustainable Supply ChainP47
P58
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
308-1New Suppliers that Were Screened 
Using Environmental CriteriaA Sustainable Supply Chain P59ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
98GRI CONTENT INDEX
General 
DisclosuresIntroduction Chapter Page Note
SOCIAL
GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryPeople
Healthcare and Welfare 
Enhancing EngagementP63
P75
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsPeople
Healthcare and Welfare  
Enhancing Engagement P63
P74
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
401-1New Employee Hires and Employee 
TurnoverHealthcare and Welfare  
Enhancing Engagement P74
401-2Benefits Provided to Full-Time 
Employees That Are Not Provided to 
Temporary or Part-Time EmployeesHealthcare and Welfare  
Enhancing Engagement P74
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEAL TH AND SAFETY 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryPeople
Healthcare and Welfare  
Enhancing EngagementP63
P73 
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsPeople
Healthcare and Welfare  
Enhancing EngagementP63
P73 
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
403-2Types of Injury and Rates of Injury, 
Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, and 
Absenteeism, and Number of Work-
Related FatalitiesHealthcare and Welfare  
Enhancing EngagementP73
GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryPeople
"Digital" Talent Building EmployabilityP63
P68
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsPeople
"Digital" Talent Building EmployabilityP63
P68
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
404-1Average Hours of Training Per Year  
Per Employee"Digital" Talent Building Employability P66
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryPeople
Diversified Platform Enabling  
Self-realizationP63
P71
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsPeople
Diversified Platform Enabling  
Self-realizationP63
P71
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
99General 
DisclosuresIntroduction Chapter Page Note
405-1Diversity of Governance Bodies and 
EmployeesDiversified Platform Enabling  
Self-realizationP71
GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryCommunity P79
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsCommunity P79
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
413-2Operations with Significant Actual and 
Potential Negative Impacts on Local 
Communities-No operations with significant 
actual and potential negative 
impacts on local communities
GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryEnvironment
A Sustainable Supply ChainP47
P58
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsEnvironment
A Sustainable Supply ChainP47
P58
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
414-1New Suppliers That Were Screened 
Using Social CriteriaA Sustainable Supply Chain P59
GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEAL TH AND SAFETY 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryFood
A Holistic Approach to Deliver  
Safe and High Quality FoodP25
P26
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsFood
A Holistic Approach to Deliver  
Safe and High Quality FoodP25
P26
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachStrategy and Governance P17
416-1Assessment of The Health and Safety 
Impacts of Product and Service 
CategoriesFood P25
GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2016 / GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1Explanation of the Material Topic and 
Its BoundaryPeople
Healthcare and Welfare  
Enhancing Engagement P63
P75
103-2The Management Approach and Its 
ComponentsCorporate Governance P14
103-3Evaluation of the Management 
ApproachCorporate Governance P14
419-1Non-compliance with Laws and 
Regulations in the Social and 
Economic Area-No major violation of laws 
and regulations in the social 
and economic areaGRI CONTENT INDEXENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
100ASSURANCE REPORT
ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
101BASIS OF ASSURED DATA
N0. Data Basis
1 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG  
Emissions Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions of Yum China in 2019 were the energy indirect (Scope 
2) GHG emissions generated by Yum China’s KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-
owned and unconsolidated affiliates) in 2019. All the energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 
are derived from electricity consumption, which is calculated by multiplying each restaurant’s 
electricity consumption by the average carbon dioxide emission factors of regional power grid. 
The average carbon dioxide emission factors of regional power grid refer to the emission factor 
of 2012 in the “Average Carbon Dioxide Emission Factors of China's Regional Power Grids in 2011 
and 2012” issued by the National Development and Reform Commission.
2 Total Electricity Consumption Total electricity consumption of Yum China in 2019 was the electricity consumed by Yum China’s 
KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-owned and unconsolidated affiliates) in 2019. 
Electricity consumption refers to the data on the restaurants’ electricity bills.
3 Average Restaurant Electricity 
ConsumptionAverage restaurant electricity consumption of Yum China in 2019 was the average electricity 
consumption of Yum China’s KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-owned and 
unconsolidated affiliates) in 2019.
4 Total Water Consumption Total water consumption of Yum China in 2019 was the water consumed by Yum China’s KFC 
and Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-owned and unconsolidated affiliates) in 2019. Each 
restaurant's water consumption is calculated by dividing its water fee by the average water unit 
price of each province defined by Yum China. Water fee refers to the restaurants’ water bills. The 
average water unit price of each province is calculated based on the actual water unit price of 
different locations in the province.
5 Average Restaurant 
Water ConsumptionAverage restaurant water consumption of Yum China in 2019 was the average water 
consumption of Yum China’s KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-owned and 
unconsolidated affiliates) in 2019.
6 Amount of Used Cooking 
Oil ( UCO ) Converted into 
Biodiesel in Chengdu 
Biodiesel ProjectAmount of UCO converted into biodiesel in Yum China Chengdu biodiesel project in 2019 was 
the amount of UCO converted into biodiesel in the biodiesel project, which was carried out in 
Yum China’s KFC restaurants in Chengdu in 2019. The amount of UCO converted into biodiesel 
refers to the data on receipts from UCO collectors.
7 Percentage of RSPO-certi/f_ied 
Palm OilPercentage of RSPO-certified palm oil of Yum China in 2019 was the percentage of  
RSPO-certified palm oil in all the purchased palm oil products of Yum China in 2019.
8 Percentage of CSR Audited 
Critical SuppliersPercentage of CSR audited critical suppliers of Yum China in 2019 was the percentage of CSR 
audited critical suppliers in all the critical suppliers of Yum China in 2019. Yum China’s critical 
suppliers include Innovative Suppliers and Key Suppliers (excluding service suppliers, overseas 
suppliers, small procurement suppliers with annual procurement less than RMB 2 million yuan, 
IT service suppliers and headquarter suppliers).
9 Female Share of Total  
WorkforceFemale share of total workforce of Yum China in 2019 was the percentage of female employees 
out of all employees of Yum China at the end of 2019. The total number of employees refers to 
the number of full-time and part-time employees directly hired by Yum China at the end of 2019, 
including office staff and restaurant staff. The number of female employees refers to the fulltime 
and part-time female employees directly hired by Yum China at the end of 2019, including office 
staff and restaurant staff.
10 Lost-time Injury Frequency 
Rate for EmployeesLost-time injury frequency rate for employees of Yum China in 2019 was the number of lost-time 
injuries per one million hours worked for employees of Yum China in 2019. The working hours 
are the total working hours of full-time and part-time employees directly hired by Yum China in 
2019, including office staff and restaurant staff. The number of lost-time injuries is the number of 
injury leaves of full-time and part-time employees directly hired by Yum China in 2019, including 
office staff and restaurant staff.ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE YUMC COMMUNITY FOOD APPENDIX
102Yum China Holdings, Inc.
www.yumchina.com