2017
GLOBAL
CITIZENSHIP & 
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
FOOD
PLANET
PEOPLE
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Corporate Profile  ............................................ 3
CEO Message  .................................................. 5
Performance Summary  ................................... 6
Corporate Governance  .................................... 8
Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy  ..9Stakeholder Engagement ............................ 10
Materiality  ................................................... 12
About This Report  ........................................ 14
Policies & Positions  ...................................... 14
Food Dashboard  .......................................... 16
Food Safety
Culture  ..................................................... 17
Governance  .............................................. 19
Audits  ....................................................... 20
Training  .................................................... 21
Choice & Nutrition
Strategy  .................................................... 22
Dietary & Lifestyle Needs  ......................... 23
Nutrients We Encourage  .......................... 24
Nutrients We Limit  ................................... 25
Responsible Marketing  ............................... 26Planet Dashboard  ........................................ 28
Green Buildings  .......................................... 30
Energy Efficiency  ...................................... 31
Water Conservation  ................................. 33
Waste Reduction  ...................................... 36
Supply Chain  ............................................... 38
Animal Protein  ......................................... 39
Forest Stewardship  ................................... 41People Dashboard  ....................................... 44
Culture & Talent  ........................................... 45
Talent Development  .................................... 47
Opportunities for  
Restaurant Employees  ............................. 48
Scholarships & Academic Support  ........... 49
Opportunities for  
Corporate Employees  ............................... 50
Diversity & Inclusion  .................................... 51
Employee Resource Groups  ..................... 52
Partnerships & Recognition  ..................... 52
Franchise Diversity  ................................... 53
Supplier Diversity  ..................................... 53
Community & Philanthropy ......................... 54
Hunger Relief  ........................................... 55
Literacy  ..................................................... 56
Youth Education  ....................................... 57
Employee Giving  ...................................... 59
Employee Benefits  ...................................... 60
Ethics & Human Rights  ................................ 61CITIZENSHIP
PLANET PEOPLE FOOD
Forward-Looking Statements ....................... 63
GRI Index  ..................................................... 64REPORTINGRecipe...
Yum! Brands is building 
the world’s most loved, 
trusted and fastest 
growing restaurant 
brands with a carefully 
crafted recipe.
We act responsibly and 
courageously when it comes 
to the food we serve, our 
impact on the planet and 
the way we treat our 
customers, our people and 
our communities.We start with a 
commitment to socially 
responsible growth, 
mixed with people who 
lead with heart.Ingredients for Creating
We put it all together to 
make the world better and 
create a world with: 
More choices. 
More transparency. 
More innovation. 
A World With More Yum! 
That’s CITIZENSHIP
IN THIS SECTION
Corporate Profile  ................................... 3
CEO Message  ......................................... 5
Performance Summary  .......................... 6
Corporate Governance  ........................... 8
Global Citizenship &  
    Sustainability Strategy  ....................... 9
Stakeholder Engagement .................... 10
Materiality  ........................................... 12
About This Report  ................................ 14
Policies & Positions  .............................. 14CORPORATE PROFILE
Yum! Brands is focused on building KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell to be the world’s most loved, trusted  
and fastest growing restaurant brands. As a global company, we aim to make the world better by acting 
responsibly with respect to food, planet and people. Yum! is headquartered in Louisville, Ky., and trades 
on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol YUM.
In 2017, Yum! Brands marked the first year of our multi-year transformation 
journey that began with the spinoff of our China business in October 
2016 and continues as we execute our growth strategy of becoming a 
company that is more focused, franchised and efficient. As of the end of 2017, 97 percent of our restaurants were franchise owned and at least  
98 percent will be franchised by the end of 2018. 
To unlock our potential, we have developed a strategic Recipe for Growth. 
This recipe begins with a set of shared values. Our values challenge and 
inspire us to elevate our brands, culture, performance and impact on 
customers and the communities that we serve. These values are: 
§Champion the customer experience
§Serve up trust in every bite
§Adopt and share the best ideas
§Deliver results, overnight and over time
§Be focused and stay hungry
§Recognize wins, big and small
§Lead with smart, heart and courage
§Believe in all people
§Make the world better 
The next component of our Recipe for Growth is a set of four key growth 
drivers that serve as the foundation upon which our sustainable, long-
term results are being built. 
These drivers will allow us to keep our promises to serve delicious food, 
make our food accessible to customers, give employees a place to grow 
and make a difference, offer profitable partnership opportunities for franchisees and deliver strong returns and long-term value.
Unrivaled Culture 
& Talent
Leverage culture and  
people capability to fuel  
brand performance and  
franchise successUnmatched Franchise 
 Operating Capability
Recruit and equip  the best  
restaurant  oper ators in the  
world  to deliver gr eat 
customer experiencesBold Restaurant 
 Development
Drive market and  fr anchise 
unit  e xpansion with strong 
 economics and valueDistinctive, Relevant 
& Easy Brands
Innovate and elevate iconic 
restaurant brands people trust 
and champion
3
CITIZENSHIP > CORPORATE PROFILE
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOUR GROWTH DRIVERSOUR BRANDSRESTAURANTS 
BY BRAND*
•KFC 21,487
•Pizza Hut 16,748
•Taco Bell 6,849
*As of year-end 2017
1.5+
MILLIONFRANCHISE SYSTEM EMPLOYEES
60,000
YUM! BRANDS EMPLOYEES2017 TOTAL 
REVENUE$5.88
BILLION135+ COUNTRIES &
TERRITORIES
45,000+
RESTAURANTS
97%
FRANCHISED
18,000+
RESTAURANTS IN EMERGING MARKETSRECOGNITION
BARRON’S 100 MOST 
SUSTAINABLE COMPANIES
 BLOOMBERG  
GENDER-EQUALITY INDEX 
CDP CLIMATE, FORESTS 
AND WATER
 CR 100 BEST CORPORATE 
CITIZENS LIST
DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY 
NORTH AMERICA INDEX 
FORBES AMERICA'S BEST 
EMPLOYERS FOR DIVERSITY
FORTUNE MAGAZINE WORLD’S 
MOST ADMIRED COMPANIES®
HEALTHIEST 100™
WORKPLACES IN AMERICA
ISS ENVIRONMENTAL & 
SOCIAL QUALITY SCORE
NEWSWEEK GREEN RANKINGS   48+37+15
4
CITIZENSHIP > CORPORATE PROFILE
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT4As Yum! Brands grows KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell around the world, 
we take our role as a global citizen and our impact on society and the 
environment seriously. That’s why I’m pleased to share Yum! Brands’ 
2017 Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report, which highlights our 
progress fueling results and making the world better over the last two 
years. This period has been a transformative time for our company. 
In 2016, we spun off our China business into an independent, publicly 
traded company and announced our Recipe for Growth, our multi-year 
growth strategy to become more focused, more franchised and more 
efficient. In doing so, we reset our mission to build the world’s most loved, 
trusted and fastest-growing restaurant brands, redefined our global growth 
priorities and sharpened a shared set of values that inspire us to elevate our 
brands and business practices around the world. 
In line with our Recipe for Growth, we created Yum! Brands’ Recipe for 
Good — our updated Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy and 
public commitments concerning our food, planet and people. I’m proud 
of the progress we’re making, as well as our growing efforts to listen and 
engage more intently with our stakeholders on priority issues, such as:
Food:  We're simplifying our ingredients in different ways, for example, 
by removing artificial flavors, colors and trans fat. We are also providing 
more balanced options on our brands’ menus, including meal items 
with less sodium and calories.
Planet:  We’re making strides in our sustainable sourcing practices and 
in our restaurant operations, including food donation, recycling and 
energy and water conservation. People:  We continue to believe in ALL people, from investing in programs 
that develop employee leaders to fostering a workplace that is inclusive. 
In our communities, strategic partnerships help us advance our priorities 
of hunger relief, literacy and youth education.
Yum!’s Recipe for Growth will deliver business results as our evolution 
continues. But a growing company is only part of who we aspire to be. 
Our Recipe for Good unites our employees, franchisees and suppliers on 
the priorities that matter and will keep us focused on socially responsible 
growth, managing risks and serving more goodness to our customers, 
shareholders, communities and the planet.
Thank you for your support.
GREG CREED
Chief Executive Officer
Yum! Brands, Inc.MESSAGE FROM  
GREG CREED
Our Recipe for Good 
“ Our Recipe for Good unites our 
employees, franchisees and suppliers 
on the priorities that matter and will 
keep us focused on socially responsible 
growth, managing risks and serving more 
goodness to our customers, shareholders, 
communities and the planet.”
5
CITIZENSHIP > CEO MESSAGE
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPERFORMANCE SUMMARY
An important way we fulfill our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy is by sharing progress against 
our goals. Below is a summary of Yum!’s performance in 2016 and 2017 with respect to our overall 
strategy and governance, as well as our three focus areas of food, planet and people. These goals and 
progress are discussed in greater detail throughout our 2017 Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report.
GOVERNANCE & STRATEGY
Governance & Strategy
Build three iconic brands that people trust and champion 
by being open and transparent about our progress, challenges and outcomes§Established Yum! Brands’ multi-year global growth and transformation strategy (Recipe for Growth) 
§Refreshed our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy to reflect our food, planet and people priorities 
§Conducted our first formal materiality assessment to identify our most important CSR issues
§Updated division enterprise risk management process to inform global growth strategy 
FOOD
Food Safety
Maintain the safest, highest-quality food supply and preparation in the industry§Provided restaurant team member training on employee health, product handling, ingredient and product 
management, and prevention of cross-contamination 
§Conducted more than 230,000 restaurant food safety audits between 2015 and 2017 
§Conducted approximately 3,000 food safety supplier audits in 2017
Choice & Nutrition
Be the preferred restaurant for consumers seeking 
delicious, balanced options by offering more choice, more transparency and nutritional improvements to our ingredients §Removed artificial flavors from 70 percent of food ingredients, with a goal of removing 100 percent by 2020*
 §Removed artificial colors from 78 percent of food ingredients, with a goal of removing 100 percent by 2020*
 §Removed partially hydrogenated oil from 97 percent of food ingredients, with a goal of removing 100 percent
§Pursuing a goal of offering balanced meals by having 20 percent of meal options consistent with one-third 
of the Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) or foreign equivalents by 2020; currently, nearly 50 percent of restaurants have met this goal
§Provided consumers with convenient access to allergen and nutrition information
Responsible Marketing
Promote transparency about our food through 
responsible labeling and advertising practices in  
our restaurants and beyond§Published online nutrition calculators for all three brands’ U.S. menus
§Followed U.S. and international guidelines to avoid marketing to childrenCOMMITMENTS 2016-2017 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
* In k ey markets, excluding co-branded ingredients and beverages
6
CITIZENSHIP > PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPEOPLE
Culture & Talent
Create a culture of engagement that attracts, 
retains and grows the best people and creates high performance in our restaurants§Delivered our Leading Culture to Fuel Results course to all leaders globally, with 95 percent participation 
for directors and above
 §Launched Grow Yourself Week in 2017 to educate corporate employees on personal and professional wellness
 §Launched brand-specific culture and leadership initiatives, including KFC’s Leading With Heart program, 
Pizza Hut’s Life Unboxed campaign and the Start With Us, Stay With Us platform at Taco Bell 
Diversity & Inclusion
Build an inclusive culture among our 
employees, franchisees and suppliers to reflect the diversity of our customers§Updated global strategy for diversity and inclusion, leading to a new diversity council and public diversity 
commitments
§Aligned with the Paradigm for Parity®, a coalition of companies working to increase the number of women in senior operating roles
§Achieved 41 percent representation of women in global management positions
§Conducted statistical analysis to confirm that we deliver pay parity across genders and ethnicities 
§Signed on to CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™, a national coalition for workplace diversity
Ethics & Human Rights
Hold our employees, franchisees and suppliers to the 
highest standards of professional and ethical conduct§Updated our Code of Conduct to reflect Yum! Brands’ transformation 
§Required our 2,000 most senior employees to complete a conflicts of interest questionnaire and certify 
that they have read our Code of Conduct
§Delivered annual compliance training to all company-owned restaurant employees 
§Remained committed to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which addresses guidelines for working conditions consistent with international frameworks
Community & Philanthropy
Support global initiatives related to hunger relief, 
literacy and youth education, and nonprofits near our hometown headquarters§Donated 6.9 million pounds of food through our Harvest program in 2017
§Provided financial support, time and materials valued at $70 million in 2017PLANET
Green Buildings
Design, build and operate restaurants to be measurably more sustainable using green building standards to drive reductions in energy consumption, water use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and waste§Built 38 percent of new company-owned and franchise restaurants to green building standards 
§Reduced energy consumption in our restaurants by 22 percent compared to a 2005 baseline 
§Saved 4.3 million megawatt-hours (MWh) of electricity due to energy efficiency improvements between 
2005 and 2017
§Reduced water consumption by 10 percent compared to a 2015 baseline
§Diverted 25 percent of restaurant waste from landfills in 2017, including cardboard, cooking oil, donated food and mixed recyclables
Supply Chain
Engage in building a responsible supply chain that 
protects forests, respects human rights, supports animal welfare and enables good antimicrobial stewardship§Published Sustainable Animal Protein Principles and Good Antimicrobial Stewardship policy
§Began developing unified auditing systems and policies for poultry, beef and pork 
§Required our suppliers to minimize use of antimicrobials important to human medicine
§Having a goal of sourcing 100 percent sustainable palm oil by 2018; currently sourcing 87 percent of
cooking oil from sustainable palm oil or non-palm sources
§Sourced 69 percent of global paper-based packaging and service products from either certified virgin 
or recycled sources in 2017, with goal of 100 percent by 2020COMMITMENTS 2016-2017 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
Unless otherwise noted, "KFC" and "Pizza Hut" refer to all global restaurants and "Taco Bell" refers to all U.S.-based restaurants
7
CITIZENSHIP > PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAs of April 2018, the Yum! Board of Directors consisted of 11 directors, 
10 of whom were independent based on New York Stock Exchange rules for director independence. In 2017, the Board was led by an independent non-executive Chairman and had four independent committees. Our Board believes that its independence and oversight of management are effectively maintained through a strong independent Chairman or Lead Director and through the Board’s composition, committee system and policy of having regular executive sessions of nonemployee directors. The Board has four committees:
§Audit Committee
§Management Planning and Development Committee
§Nominating and Governance Committee
§Executive/Finance Committee
Only independent directors serve on the Audit, Management Planning and Development, and Nominating and Governance Committees in accordance with our Corporate Governance Principles. 
The Board has instituted an annual self-evaluation process led by the 
Nominating and Governance Committee. This assessment focuses on the Board’s contribution to the company and emphasizes those areas in which a better contribution could be made. In addition, our Audit, Management Planning and Development, and Nominating and Governance Committees conduct similar self-evaluations on an annual basis.BOARD DIVERSITY
A diverse range of experiences and perspectives among our directors 
supports the success of the Board in overseeing our complex, varied 
global businesses. When recruiting new directors, we look for leaders 
from different backgroun ds that combine a broad spectrum of e xperience 
and expertise with a reputation for integrity. F or complete selection  
criteria and policies, please see our Corporate Governance Principles. 
Currently, three of our 11 directors are women and two are minorities. 
GOVERNANCE
Oversight for environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues 
ultimately resides with the Yum! Brands Board of Directors, briefed 
through its Audit Committ ee on an annual basis. At the operational 
level, the Chief Communications and Public Affairs Officer oversees the 
global reputation of Yum! and is responsible for shaping the 
Citizenship and Sustainability Strategy with the Vice President, 
Government Relations and Citizenship & Sustainability and the senior 
leaders who comprise our ESG Council (noted below) and through 
cross-functional and expert working groups at the corporate and brand 
division levels:
§Chief Communicati ons and Public Aff airs Officer 
§Vice President, Government Relati ons and
Citizenship & Sust ainability 
§Vice President, S upply Chain
§Chief Food Safet y Officer
§Chief Food Innova tion Officer 
§Chief Transformat ion and People Officer 
§General Counsel/ Associate General Counsel 
We also regularly convene an ESG Working Group that helps manage 
ongoing efforts such as our materiality assessment, disclosures to sustainability ratings and rankings agencies and our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report. Yum! Brands believes that good corporate governance is a critical factor in achieving business 
success and embraces practices that align with management and shareholder interests.CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
A complete overview of corporate 
governance at Yum! Brands is provided on our investor website and 2017 Proxy .
8
CITIZENSHIP > CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTYum! Brands is committed to delivering on our promises to our most 
important stakeholders — enhancing the customer experience, improving 
restaurant and franchise profitability, increasing employee engagement 
and rewarding investors and shareholders.
Our Citizenship & Sustainability priorities will concentrate on advancing 
progress and results in the most critical parts of our business: feeding 
people and being transparent about what’s in our food, choosing 
responsible suppliers, operating our restaurants efficiently, hiring and 
developing the best talent in an inclusive workplace and giving back to 
our communities.
As a global restaurant company, we are well-positioned to address 
numerous United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, such as Zero 
Hunger, Decent Work and Economic Growth, Responsible Consumption 
and Production, and Climate Action. Our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy reflects Yum! Brands’ priorities for socially responsible 
growth, risk management and sustainable stewardship of our food, planet and people. GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP &  
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
As a globally franchised business, Yum! 
views franchisees as essential partners 
in the execution of our Citizenship & 
Sustainability priorities concerning our 
food, planet and people.
Food  
We serve food people trustPeople
We unlock potential Planet
We grow sustainably
Governance  |  Ethics  |  TransparencyFood Safety 
Culture
Governance
Audits
Training
Choice & Nutrition 
Simple Ingredients
Meal & Beverage Options
Nutrients We Encourage
Nutrients We Limit
Responsible MarketingCulture & Talent    
Diversity & Inclusion
Community & Philanthropy
Ethics & Human RightsGreen Buildings
Energy Efficiency
Water Conservation
Waste Reduction
Supply Chain
Animal Protein
Forest Stewardship
9
CITIZENSHIP > GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe pride ourselves on being good listeners of both positive and critical 
voices and consider engagement a key tool to keep abreast of food and 
restaurant industry trends and concerns. This helps us monitor risks, 
especially in the areas of food safety, global nutrition, supply chain management and challenges to our franchise business model. As an 
example, we are currently focused on projects in the areas of animal 
welfare, antibiotic use, deforestation (including palm oil), plastics use and supply chain risks.
As a first step in revising our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy, 
we went through a rigorous process in 2017 that resulted in identifying and prioritizing the following as key stakeholders: employees, customers, 
franchisees, shareholders and communities. We considered this process 
to be foundational to assessing those issues most material to our business and then shaping our strategy and subsequent initiatives, including our 
reporting processes. After identifying representative individuals and organizations within 
each of these stakeholder groups, we worked with a third-party 
consultant to develop an engagement process that included surveys 
and interviews with both internal and external stakeholders. In total, 75 survey responses were gathered from Yum! and brand leaders and 
conducted 31 interviews. These interviews gave us detailed insights 
into the opportunities each group sees for Yum! Brands, as well as risks we may face in key areas. 
Our ongoing engagement focuses on working with stakeholders on 
priorities, identified through our materiality assessment, that address our three pillars of food, planet and people. There are many voices and 
points of view relative to these issues and our goal is to always be as 
inclusive as possible. This engagement varies from one-time discussions to regular interaction while working on joint projects. The table on page 
11 provides examples of ongoing interactions with each of these groups 
and issues that are most relevant to them.Consistent, honest and transparent engagement with stakeholders is 
foundational to our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
In addition to ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders, we participate in a wide range of trade associations. These relationships enable us to 
work across our industry to address common challenges, opportunities 
and public policy issues. Significant memberships include:
§100,000 Opportunities Initiative
§Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics
§American Potato Trade Alliance 
§CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion
§Conference for Food Protection
§Consortium for Graduate Studies 
in Management
§Corporate Responsibility Association
§Dairy Management Incorporated™ 
§Feast on Equality
§Food Industry Asia§Food Waste Reduction Alliance 
§International Food Information 
Council Foundation
§International Franchise Association 
§International Poultry Council 
§Institute for Food Technologists
§Louisville Sustainability Council 
§Multicultural Foodservice & 
Hospitality Alliance™
§National Chicken Council 
§National Pork Board§National Restaurant Association® 
§National Retail Federation®
§Paradigm for Parity
§Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil™ 
§Serving Europe
§USA Poultry and Egg Export Council
§U.S. Chamber Business Councils
§U.S. Green Buildings Council
§U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef
§Women's Foodservice Forum
10
CITIZENSHIP > STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSTAKEHOLDER TYPES OF ENGAGEMENT MOST IMPORTANT ISSUES
Advocacy Groups/NGOs§Direct Engagement
§Organizational Membership
§Roundtable Events
§Shareholder Meetings
§Strategic Issue Partnership§Choice & Nutrition
§Energy, Emissions & Climate Change
§Ethics & Compliance
§Food Safety
§Human Rights & Labor Practices
§Sustainable Sourcing
Communities§Corporate & Employee Giving
§Employee Volunteerism
§Local Nonprofit Partnerships§Choice & Nutrition
§Community & Philanthropy 
Consumers §Social Media §Choice & Nutrition
§Community & Philanthropy 
Employees§Anonymous Hotline
§Development & Training Programs
§Employee Engagement Survey
§Quarterly Global Employee Webcasts
§Town Hall Meetings§Community & Philanthropy 
§Culture & Talent
§Food Safety
Franchisees§Annual Franchise Conventions
§Direct Engagement§Community & Philanthropy 
§Culture & Talent
§Food Safety
Government Agencies§Direct Engagement
§Yum! Political Action Committee§Choice & Nutrition
§Ethics & Compliance
§Food Safety
§Human Rights & Labor Practices
Industry Associations §Annual Conferences
§Industry Memberships§Choice & Nutrition
§Culture & Talent
§Energy, Emissions & Climate Change
§Food Safety
Investors§Annual Report
§Brand/Yum! Investor Days
§Direct Engagement
§Earnings/Investor Calls
§Ratings/Rankings & Indices§Culture & Talent
§Energy, Emissions & Climate Change
§Ethics & Compliance
Suppliers§Annual Supplier Awards
§Restaurant Supply Chain Solutions™
§Supplier Audits§Energy, Emissions & Climate Change
§Food Safety
§Waste & Recycling
§Water
Thought Leaders§Leverage Experts on Councils
§Participate in Research & Studies§Ethics & Compliance
§Human Rights & Labor Practices
11
CITIZENSHIP > STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFor this reason, our material issues  — or the topics that comprise our 
Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy and reporting — depend on 
stakeholder input. Focusing on materiality allows us to make decisions 
and set goals based on what matters to our stakeholders, which helps 
build trust. Materiality also allows us to respond to global trends, such as changing consumer behaviors and increased investor interest in ESG 
topics. In fact, nearly all of Yum! Brands’ top 10 shareholders were 
signatories to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment, a clear sign that performance on ESG factors is driving investor decisions to 
an increasing degree. 
In 2017, we enlisted a third party to conduct our first formal materiality 
assessment based on guidance provided by the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI). This materiality assessment process determined our Global Citizenship 
& Sustainability Report content through the following six steps:We recognize that our actions take place in 
a global context that includes key stakeholders — 
employees, customers, franchisees, shareholders 
and communities.MATERIALITY
1. Identification of topics and stakeholders to consider in the assessment. 
We reviewed publicly reported materials of stakeholders and peers 
regarding our industry and business, and as discussed issues with 
employees, investors and NGOs. 
2. Prioritization of stakeholder groups based on weighting relativeto their importance to Yum! Brands and evidence gathering of
internal and external documents to understand priority topics for
Yum! and our stakeholders.
3. Engagement through in-depth interviews and surveys with internal
and external stakeholders to gather information, including
opportunities and risks.
4. Synthesis and Analysis of findings to aggregate and score
evidence so that a materiality matrix could be created to
document findings.
5. Validation of findings with key Yum! leaders.
6. Stakeholder Engagement through interviews with internal and 
external stakeholders to gather additional direct input to further 
prioritize key topics and develop final materiality matrix. 
12
CITIZENSHIP > MATERIALITY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTImportance to External Stakeholders
Importance to Yum! BrandsTax StrategyPackagingInformation Security 
& Data Privacy
Talent Attraction, 
Engagement & RetentionEthics & Compliance
Financial PerformanceMenu Labeling
Community Investment
Food Technology
Responsible Marketing
Lobbying & Public PolicySustainable Sourcing
Waste & RecyclingFood Safety
Water
Animal WelfareNutritionEnergy, Emissions & Climate Change
Human Rights & Labor Practices
FOOD PLANET PEOPLE GOVERNANCEThe result of this process was a focused set of 10 topics, pictured in the diagram below. As the matrix shows, these topics —  
led by Food Safety, Nutrition, and Energy, Emissions & Climate Change — are rated most important to Yum! Brands and most 
important to our stakeholders. These material topics helped inform our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy for 2017 
and are prominently featured in this report. In line with best citizenship reporting practices, we plan on repeating our 
materiality assessment every two to three years.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF TOPICS
TOP 10 IN BOLDYum! Brands
13
CITIZENSHIP > MATERIALITY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTThis report captures full-year sustainability results and progress primarily 
from Jan. 1 — Dec. 31, 2017, with some data dating back to 2016. Our 
previous report was released in 2016, covering our results and progress 
for calendar year 2015. 
On Oct. 31, 2016, we completed the spinoff of our China business. Today, 
Yum China is an independent, publicly traded company on the New York 
Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol YUMC. Yum China’s commitment 
to sustainability continues and their 2017 report can be found on their company website.
We also announced our strategic multi-year transformation plans to 
strengthen and grow our brands around the world. At the same time, we 
embarked on a journey to develop a Global Citizenship & Sustainability 
Strategy aligned with our transformation plans, which included a formal materiality assessment, stakeholder engagement and the 
collection of progress to date against existing goals and programs, 
culminating in the identification of new priority areas of food, planet and people. 
We value and welcome feedback from all interested stakeholders. Please 
send comments or questions about this report to citizenship@yum.com. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option. We recognize GRI as the most credible standard for reporting 
on environmental, social and governance issues reflecting the results of a materiality assessment. The GRI Content Index outlines the indicators 
included in this report and a link to their location in the report. Our GRI 
Content Index can be found here. All restatements are noted where they appear throughout the report. We do not currently seek external 
assurance for our report.
We gather data directly for our corporate operations and company-owned 
restaurants. Data for the majority of our operations is supplied voluntarily by our franchisees through an annual global survey process. As a result, 
the scope for data presented in this report varies and is noted accordingly.This is Yum! Brands’ seventh Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report. We are committed 
to disclosing our sustainability strategies and performance on an annual basis.ABOUT THIS REPORT
POLICIES & POSITIONS
Transparency is foundational to the execution of our Global Citizenship & 
Sustainability Strategy. Following are policies, public positions and other 
resources that are of interest to our stakeholders. Requests for additional information can be made to citizenship@yum.com.
§Corporate Governance Principles
§Genetically Modified Foods Statement
§Global Code of Conduct
§Global Position on Good Antimicrobial Stewardship
§Human Rights and Key Supply Chain Commitments
§Human Rights and Labor Practices Policy
§Palm Oil Policy
§Paper-based Packaging Sourcing Policy
§Political Contributions and U.S. Government Advocacy Policy
§Sustainable Animal Protein Principles
§Tax & Trade Policy
§U.S. Supplier Code of Conduct
§Conflict Minerals Policy
14
CITIZENSHIP > ABOUT THIS REPORT
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFOODIN THIS SECTION
Food Dashboard  .................................. 16
Food Safety
Culture  ............................................. 17
Governance  ...................................... 19
Audits  ............................................... 20
Training  ............................................ 21
Choice & Nutrition  ............................... 22
Strategy  ............................................ 22
Dietary & Lifestyle Needs  ................. 23
Nutrients We Encourage  .................. 24
Nutrients We Limit  ........................... 25
Responsible Marketing  ....................... 26
FOOD
We Serve Food People Trust
GOALS
FOOD SAFETY
Maintain an industry-leading, safe, high-quality food 
supply and customer experience.
CHOICE & NUTRITION
§Remove artificial colors and flavors from core food 
ingredients by 2020*
§Remove all artificial trans fat from food ingredients 
by 2020*
§Offer 20 percent of meals consistent with one-third Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) or foreign 
equivalents by 2020
§Seek continuous improvements in the nutrition of our 
food that are aligned with the World Health Organization 
(WHO) to improve health and reduce chronic disease
§Provide consumers with convenient access to food 
information regarding menu labeling and allergens
RESPONSIBLE MARKETING
Limit marketing communications to children under 12OPPORTUNITIES & CHALLENGES
§Ensuring that food safety processes are aligned with an evolving, 
franchise-focused business model
§Providing consumers with more access to balanced food choices that are less processed or modified
§Labeling menu offerings clearly and marketing responsibly to meet consumers’ desire for increased transparency
KEY TAKEAWAYS
§Food safety is our number one priority. A culture of food safety resonates from the top down into our restaurants and among our franchise 
partners and employees. Audits of our suppliers, distributors and 
restaurants are conducted regularly.
§Yum! Brands deployed a new global nutrition strategy that emphasizes transparency of ingredients, sodium reduction, simplified ingredients 
with increased vegetarian, high-protein, lower-calorie, and other 
offerings that promote a balanced diet.
§Choice is important at Yum! Brands. We offer millions of menu items every day and make it easy for consumers to customize orders to fit 
their dietary and lifestyle needs. 
§We are committed to transparency and responsible labeling. Each of our 
brands publicly shares its nutritional profile, allergens and ingredients of
its core menu items, which consumers can easily access online.
MATERIAL ISSUES
§Food Safety
§Nutrition
§Responsible MarketingKEY STAKEHOLDERS
§Consumers
§Employees
§Franchisees
§NGOs
§Suppliers
*In key markets, excluding co-branded ingredients and beverages
16
FOOD  > DASHBOARD
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTServing food that is prepared in a clean and sanitary environment, and 
honestly presented, is a responsibility that we take seriously. To deliver on 
our vision of “Trust in Every Bite,” Yum! upholds an industry-leading food 
safety program and stringent food safety standards that mitigate food safety risks for consumers who visit our more than 45,000 restaurants 
across more than 135 countries and territories. Food safety starts with our leadership team and cascades to our franchise 
partners and restaurant employees. Our approach is a holistic one, ensuring 
that food safety is considered at every step along the supply chain.
Our Food Safety Standards cover areas where key risk factors exist, such as 
employee health and hygiene, product handling, product temperature 
management, cross-contamination and more. While these standards do 
not differ among brands, food safety risks do differ from brand to brand and across global markets.Our first priority — confirmed by stakeholders as part of the materiality assessment process — 
is to maintain an industry-leading, safe, high-quality food supply from farm to fork.FOOD SAFETY CULTURE
Trust in Every Bite
FARM
 §Produce Standards
 §Wholesome Food 
Animal Program1 PROCESSING
 §Supplier Audit Standards
 §Auditor Certification & Approval
 §Premiums2
DISTRIBUTION
 §Supplier Audit Standards
 §Auditor Certification & Approval3 DELIVERY
 §Supplier Audit Standards4 RESTAURANTS
 §Food Safety Facilities & Equipment Standard
 §Food Standards Compliance Check (FSCC)
 §Restaurant Food Safety Standards
 §Restaurant Pest Standard5FARM TO FORK
 §Regulatory Affairs
 §Crisis Management
17
FOOD  > SAFETY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSTAYING CURRENT ON EMERGING REGULATIONS
Yum! does not produce or manufacture ingredients in our food. Therefore, 
regulations that affect agricultural commodities and food products apply 
more directly to our local franchise partners, distributors or suppliers than 
they do to Yum!. We invest significant time and resources to validate that 
our distributors and suppliers meet and comply with applicable regulations 
and stringent food safety requirements set forth by Yum! and the industry.
For example, the U.S. Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) impacts our 
business in several ways that have resulted in suppliers making significant 
food safety changes, as well as countries revising their food codes. We 
work closely with distributors, importers and suppliers in these locations 
to make sure they will be compliant by FSMA enforcement dates.
We believe that proactive food safety and quality assurance requires 
maintaining a constant cycle of reviewing and modifying standards, 
introducing and deploying new systems, improving upon existing systems, 
coaching and compliance monitoring, and staying current on emerging 
food safety risks. As part of this commitment to continuous improvement, 
we conduct regular risk analyses and benchmark against other organizations 
within the restaurant industry to advance our food safety standards in  
a controlled, data-driven, proactive and scientific way. We closely track 
current and emerging food safety issues that affect our business. If changes 
occur in food safety regulation, science or technology, we immediately 
assess issues and adjust our strategy accordingly.
ENGAGING GLOBAL STAKEHOLDERS
In the U.S., we engage with stakeholders, such as the Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
and state health departments, to verify our food safety management 
approach is aligned with their expectations and to build their knowledge 
of Yum!’s food safety programs. In addition, Yum! influences state health departments to adopt the model U.S. FDA Food Code. This enables 
consistent execution of science-based food safety practices to protect 
consumer health and mitigate risks. Outside the U.S., Yum! and our 
franchisees also engage with regulators and policymakers in their 
respective markets.
We intentionally engage other companies and suppliers in our industry 
to help build a collective culture of food safety and share best practices. 
As an example, for the past seven years Taco Bell has hosted a meeting 
of industry peers on emerging issues in food safety. The meeting is 
held during the Produce Marketing Association’s annual gathering, 
making it easy for companies to attend. Among the invited speakers 
have been experts on foodborne illness law and representatives from 
the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and CDC. By sharing 
knowledge with others, we position ourselves as a leader and elevate 
food safety practices industrywide.“ Effective management of food safety 
risk starts with a tremendous culture 
of awareness about the primacy of food 
safety and expectations for high personal 
behavioral standards — all supported by 
strong restaurant surveillance routines 
and appropriate levels of training on a 
constantly refreshed basis.”
CLIVE NEWTON —  Yum! Chief Food Safety Officer
18
FOOD  > SAFETY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFood Safety Governance
Creating Broad Accountability
As we have transformed our business to a predominantly franchised 
model — operating fewer company-owned restaurants in fewer markets 
— we have also adapted our food safety governance processes. We focus 
on putting the right people with the right capabilities in place at the global 
brand level so that individual business units can empower franchise partners with clear metrics, goals and resources to successfully integrate 
our food safety policies and standards and deliver on our compliance 
programs. This transition means that our franchise partners have more 
responsibility to communicate our brands’ food safety requirements  
to their organizations as they make sense for their situation.
BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS OPERATIONSSENIOR 
MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE
Audit Committee
Responsible for:
 §Risk Management
 §Annual Performance 
AssessmentsGlobal Food Safety Council
A group of senior food safety, 
operations and supply chain 
leaders led by our Chief 
Food Safety Officer. Their 
responsibilities include:
 §Food Safety Policies
 §Food Safety Standards
 §Quality Assurance
 §Processes & Measurement 
Systems
 §Awareness Initiatives 
Around New Food Safety 
Science
 §Emerging Best Practices in 
Risk MitigationCompliance  
Oversight Committee
The Yum! executive group 
responsible for:
 §Maintaining oversight of 
risks including food safety 
and other enterprise risksInternal Audit Team
Responsible for independently 
evaluating the adequacy and 
effectiveness of:
 §Yum!’s Internal Control 
Processes
 §Compliance with Yum! 
Policies & Procedures
 §Compliance with Food Safety 
Laws & RegulationsOur food safety governing bodies certify that regulatory compliance, legal requirements and Yum!’s policies and 
standards for food safety are met and maintained by franchise partners, suppliers and local business unit teams.FOOD SAFETY
GOVERNING BODIES
19
FOOD  > SAFETY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTRESPONDING EFFECTIVELY TO CRISIS
The Yum! Brands Crisis Management Program is dedicated to anticipating, 
identifying and managing potential emerging food safety issues at the 
local, regional and global levels to protect the health and safety of our 
employees and consumers. In the event of a crisis, such as foodborne 
illness or product contamination, Crisis Core Teams (CCTs) are immediately 
activated to support the restaurant, franchisee or business unit. CCTs are 
identified proactively before a crisis event occurs and each member knows 
their role and responsibility during an active crisis.
Key leadership and decision-makers receive training to become CCT 
members as part of Yum! Brands Crisis Management Program. Our 
online crisis training course and web application tools allow CCT members 
to quickly identify and successfully manage crises within the Yum! Brands 
system. This crisis training is regularly reviewed and updated by internal 
and external stakeholders, including medical and epidemiology experts, 
based on new and emerging food safety science and best practices. Most of our franchise partners have defined crisis management teams, 
crisis response procedures and crisis communication plans that clearly 
outline how to communicate with their business unit and brand and 
what actions to take to mitigate a food safety issue.
When it comes to communicating about a crisis with the public, we 
maintain a Global Crisis Communications Repeatable Model that serves 
as a playbook for responding swiftly and with care. An important aspect 
of our approach is listening for and responding to crises on social media. 
Our global social media monitoring system — the Social Hive, along with  
a community outbreak detection program — is active 24-hours-a-day, 
seven-days-a-week and serves as an early warning system. The Social 
Hive tracks all mentions of Yum!, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell in more 
than 45 languages. This system also alerts the appropriate contacts  
if potential issues surface and assists in intelligence-gathering and 
communications planning.
Supplier and distributor audits are conducted by certified auditors who 
undergo training and calibration. Auditors must be able to accurately and 
competently conduct food safety audits to minimize scoring variability 
and instill trust within the audit process.
We select our suppliers based on audit performance, risk assessments, 
people capability and key performance indicators for food safety preventive 
controls, including Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs), Hazard Analysis 
Critical Control Point (HACCP), pest control, sanitation, operations and facility 
management, recall/withdraw plans and protection from contamination.
Our Supplier Tracking Assessment and Recognition (STAR) quality 
system facilitates a collaborative exchange of food safety information 
among suppliers, distributors and the franchisee community to 
provide compliance and performance visibility. Each Yum! division quality assurance team manages food safety and quality monitoring 
of suppliers in both our processing facilities and our restaurants.
The auditing plan and audit visit frequency for each supplier depends on the 
results of our supplier risk assessment, performance level and perceived 
risk factors, including people and food safety capabilities. Suppliers that 
are audited receive feedback on their performance to drive continuous 
improvement and mitigate risk from defined food safety hazards. Each 
year, Yum! conducts approximately 3,000 food safety supplier audits.
Suppliers are also subject to quality systems audits that verify their 
systems and processes meet Yum! or legal standards for food safety 
and/or quality. Our distributors are subject to the same standards and 
expectations of food safety as our suppliers and receive distribution 
audits that cover transportation and warehouses.Our food safety auditing program is designed to promote effective control and risk 
mitigation throughout our global supply chain.Food Safety Audits
Creating Safety through Oversight
20
FOOD  > SAFETY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEvery Yum! division has technical and leadership capabilities in food 
safety to actively manage and effectively execute Yum! Food Safety 
Policies and Standards, and all Yum! restaurant employees are trained 
in food safety. Our Food Safety Standards set minimum requirements on the safe production of food using science-based data and regulatory 
requirements as a foundation. These standards guide employee training 
and are prepared in collaboration with food safety and quality assurance experts from across our organization so that food safety is consistently 
executed across our brands.
All restaurant employees worldwide receive food safety training as part 
of the onboarding process, as well as regular, recurring food safety training. 
This instruction focuses on illness prevention, personal hygiene, hand 
washing, temperature management and more.
YUM! PRODUCE SAFETY  
ADVISORY COUNCIL 
The Yum! Produce Safety Advisory Council, an internal 
advisory group led by Taco Bell which continues to 
be an industry leader in produce safety, is made up  
of independent academics, competitors, suppliers, 
microbiologists, entomologists and other industry experts to share best practices and the latest science and technology in food safety in produce. The council 
brings these stakeholders together and asks, “What 
are we doing now, how can we do it better and what can we do collectively in the future to keep the produce 
in our supply chain safe?”
Employees are integral in maintaining the highest food safety standards in our restaurants.Food Safety Training
Engaging Every Employee on Food Safety
Third-party food safety professionals conduct Food Standards Compliance 
Check audits at our restaurants twice per year at a minimum to promote 
compliance with our food safety standards and local regulatory requirements. 
In addition, restaurants must meet facility and equipment standards for hygienic and food-safe restaurant design. In 2017, more than 80,000 
restaurant food safety audits were completed across more than 45,000 restaurants, bringing the total number since 2015 to over 230,000 audits.
21
FOOD  > SAFETY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCHOICE & NUTRITION
Making Progress on Nutrition
One of the most material aspects of our business is to provide options 
that fit a diverse range of lifestyles, eating habits and preferences across 
the more than 135 countries and territories that we serve, all while 
keeping in mind a balanced diet. Yum! defines a balanced diet as that which contains a wide variety of foods, including grains, rice and 
cereals, vegetables, dairy, meat and beans, fats, fruits and optional 
calories from sweets.
Our team of expert nutritionists and food innovation professionals drive 
the strategy for nutritious choices and ingredient improvements across 
KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell. This strategy focuses on making our products more balanced, giving customers choices and being transparent about 
what’s in our food. While each brand has its own nutrition standards and 
accountability plans, we are working toward consistency in the nutritional quality of our food with new Global Nutrition Standards and Guidelines.
LISTENING TO CONSUMERS’ CHANGING NEEDS AND HABITS
Food- and diet-related illnesses are on the rise, resulting in growing 
consumer awareness and concern about what they eat. This and other factors are changing consumers’ eating habits, needs and desires at 
a rapid pace. We conduct regular market research to ensure that our 
business is aligned with these shifts in preference and lifestyle. As a baseline, we know our consumers want safe, quality food that doesn’t 
compromise on flavor. Current trends and considerations that we are 
tracking closely include: 
§Value: Our consumers seek delicious food that is affordable. While they want nutritious options on our menus, they expect those options
to be offered at a value.
§Snacking: People are snacking more often and eating smaller portions
throughout the day. Our brands are actively working to make our menus 
more customizable, so if a consumer wants a convenient snack instead 
of a full meal, they have plenty of options from which to choose. §Plant-Forward and Simple: Consumers are looking for ways toincorporate more plants (fruits, vegetables, whole grains) into their 
diets as well as options that are less processed. We are dedicated to 
incorporating fresh produce into our menus wherever possible and simplifying ingredients across all our brands.
§Gen Z: When it comes to the now-adolescent generation — “Gen Z”— and food, they aren’t just simply thinking about healthy diets and 
simpler, fresher ingredients. They are also considering what food 
means to them personally, for society and for the planet. Gen Z is asking the tough questions such as, “How will the food choices I make 
impact me and others? Where do the ingredients in my meal come 
from and how are they grown?” Gen Z is focused on the experience ofwhat they eat and making sure that it not only tastes good, but that it 
translates to positive impact.
§Flexitarian Lifestyles: Consumers are trying to eat better, but
they also want choices that leave room for indulgence. One day, 
for example, a consumer might be in the mood for a vegetarian
choice, and the next, his or her main priority may be getting ahigh-protein meal. We make sure to provide a range of nutritious
options that accommodate the increasingly flexible eating habits
of our consumers.Yum! Brands listens to our consumers, so we know they want options that can help them 
create balanced meals when visiting our restaurants. We’re sharing more information than 
ever before about where our food comes from, what goes into it and how it’s made.
“ The theme w e’re seeing with consumers is 
that they want to eat better — but they also 
want choices. It’s all about finding a balance 
between healthy options and indulgence. 
We want to offer menu items that provide 
choices for everyone and every mood.”
LIZ MATTHEWS — Taco Bell Global Chief Food Innovation Officer
22
FOOD  > CHOICE & NUTRITION
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFor instance, Pizza Hut allows every customer to customize their pizza with a variety of crusts and toppings. With Taco Bell’s Fresco Menu, consumers can easily 
replace standard ingredients with lower-calorie options and at participating KFC restaurants consumers have the choice of grilled chicken over fried chicken.
High-Protein  §Protein-centric menu with chicken 
breasts, drumsticks, whole wings, thighs, 
strips and other options, including grilled 
chicken, at participating restaurants§Provides high-protein offerings across 40 percent of its permanent core pizza and wings menu 
domestically and internationally§Power Menu includes high-protein bowls 
and burritos under 510 calories and over 
20 grams of lean protein
Vegetarian §Vegetarian meals can be made out 
of out of a number of delicious sides, 
while vegans can choose from corn, 
potato wedges or, in the U.S., 
green beans§With a range of four to eight vegetables as toppings, Pizza Hut offers a variety of
vegetarian options that can account for more 
than 30 percent of its permanent core offerings. 
In certain countries like India, vegetarian 
options account for more than 50 percent of 
the menu. Examples of vegetarian core pizzas 
are Cheese Lovers, Veggie Lovers and Create 
Your Own combinations, where consumers can 
choose a wide variety of fresh vegetables for 
pizza toppings or at our salad bar. §First quick-service restaurant to be 
certified by the American Vegetarian 
Association ™ (AVA)
§13 AVA-certified vegetarian menu items
§38 vegetarian ingredients (28 of which 
are vegan)
§Over 8 million vegetarian customizable combinations
Made Without 
Gluten*§Sides and dressings, including green 
beans, mashed potatoes, corn and cole 
slaw made without gluten
Learn more§Gluten-free pizza made with Udi’s Certified 
Gluten-Free crust and select gluten-free 
toppings
§Cheese-only and cheese-and-pepperoni gluten-
free pizzas are prepared using procedures 
certified by the Gluten Intolerance Group
§Markets that have launched gluten-free pizzas 
include Australia, Canada, the U.K. and the U.S.§36 ingredients made without gluten
Learn more
Customizable  §Kentucky Grilled Chicken at 
participating restaurants as an 
alternative to the traditional fried 
options (and many international 
markets offer salads)
§Meals can be tailored with a variety of
tasty sides§“Create Your Own” menu has nearly endless 
different topping combinations, including a 
variety of crusts, cheeses, sauces, vegetables, 
fruits and proteins
§WingStreet Wings can be customized with eight different flavors
§Pizza Hut U.S. developed a Restaurant Quality Food Microsite at restaurantquality.pizzahut.com   
to promote increased transparency and choice§Almost any item can be customized to “Fresco Style” 
§Power Menu allows for customizing 
to incorporate lean proteins and 
nutrient-rich produce
§All menu items can be customized to fit within someone’s lifestyle
§Make it Meatless by replacing meat with beans on almost any menu itemDietary & Lifestyle Needs
We help consumers “hack” our menus to customize their order to fit their dietary and lifestyle needs.
* Y um! Brands foods are not certified “gluten-free,” nor do we claim to be gluten-free across our brands. Special menu items made without gluten are available in the U.S. only.
Watch videoTACO BELL’S “FOOD FOR ALL” JOURNEY 
Taco Bell’s “Food for All” journey aims to create a menu that offers the choices 
its consumers are asking for — from low-calorie and vegetarian to high-protein. 
Learn more about the Food for All journey in this video.
23
FOOD  > CHOICE & NUTRITION
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur product development teams and suppliers follow nutrition and ingredient guidelines when beginning new product development.  
These guiding principles help to ensure that new menu items meet our nutrition targets and standards where possible. We also continue to  
expand menu offerings with more gluten-free, fruit- and vegetable-forward, lower-calorie and high-protein menu items and ingredients.
§Nearly three-quarters of menu items are less than 500 calories, and over half of Taco Bell’s 
breakfast menu is less than 400 calories. 
§Ordering “Fresco style” replaces cheeses, mayo-based sauces, reduced-fat sour cream and guacamole with freshly prepared pico de gallo, at no additional cost. This switch can provide 
about a 25 percent reduction in fat. The signature Fresco Menu offers seven items with less 
than 350 calories and 10 grams of fat. 
§The Power Menu includes high-protein burritos and bowls, all under 510 calories. 
§Taco Bell is the first quick-service restaurant to offer menu items certified by the American Vegetarian Association. §A variety of vegetable sides are offered, including green beans, mashed potatoes, corn and 
cole slaw, each containing 10 grams of fat or less per serving.
§In the U.S., KFC continues to explore opportunities for improving the nutritional makeup ofkids’ meals. The brand now offers a variety of kids’ meals under 300 calories.
§KFC in the U.K. and Ireland has a suite of lighter menu options, including its Rice Box menu line that replaces fries with rice.
§Participating KFC restaurants offer Kentucky Grilled Chicken (KGC) for consumers looking for products that are lower in calories, depending on the size of the piece. More specific nutritional 
information can be found here about KGC in the U.S. and here about KGC in the South Pacific 
and Africa regions.
§KFC Australia has developed a Honey Mustard Baked Tender Twister that is lower in calories, fat and sodium to meet specific nutrition criteria.
§Select international markets will launch a new “artisan” crust and new topping combinations that offer more vegetables and fresh ingredients by 2019. 
§In 2017, Pizza Hut U.K. launched vegan cheese options as well as gluten-free pizzas — options which were already offered in Australia, Canada and the U.S. 
§The brand offers a salad bar and delivery salads packed with fresh produce in almost every country around the world. 
Taco Bell’s 7-Layer burrito
Udi's® Gluten-free Pizza at Pizza Hut
Kentucky Grilled Chicken and green beansWe encourage balanced options, while still offering food that delivers on flavor and craveability.Nutrients We Encourage
Promoting Nutrition While Delivering on Taste
24
FOOD  > CHOICE & NUTRITION
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTNO
ARTIFICIAL
FLAVORS & 
COLORSNO
MSG, BHA/
BHT OR HIGH 
FRUCTOSE 
CORN SYRUPNO
ARTIFICIAL 
TRANS FATS
(KFC U.K.)We’ve made measurable progress toward our goals to eliminate 100 percent 
of partially hydrogenated oil, artificial flavors and artificial coloring by 2020. 
In 2017, based on data representing 75 percent of our global restaurant 
count, an estimated 97 percent of food items were free of partially 
hydrogenated oil, an estimated 70 percent were free of artificial flavors, 
and an estimated 78 percent had removed artificial coloring. 
A major focus area has been reduction of sodium across our brands. 
Currently, 15 percent of Pizza Hut pizzas have just one-third of the daily 
recommended dietary allowance for sodium, and 20 percent of its 
pizzas will meet that criteria by 2020. Over the last five years, Pizza Hut 
has lowered the sodium content in all its core dough crusts globally by 25 percent, the lowest point possible without affecting functionality, as well as lowering the sodium content in its cheeses globally by between 25 and 35 percent. Pizza Hut has provided country business units the 
option to choose between standard and low-sodium options, and 
markets in Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe and Korea have opted in. 
Since 2008, Taco Bell has reduced sodium by 15 percent on average 
across the menu, the equivalent of 1.5 million pounds of salt removed each year from consumers’ diets. By 2025, Taco Bell will expand that 
commitment to an additional 10 percent, for a total of 25 percent 
sodium reduction across the menu and is well on its way to achieving 
this goal. Meanwhile, KFC works with suppliers and nutrition experts to 
find opportunities to reduce sodium in its menu items where feasible.
§In the U.S., all KFC menu items are free of food dyes (with the exception of beverages and third-party products). In addition, artificial colors and flavors will be removed from our core products by the end of 2018.
§KFC U.K. products are free of artificial trans fats. The brand in the UK met its goal of removing artificial colors and flavors from its own brand ingredients by 2017. 
§KFC China launched a new mayonnaise recipe for burgers that reduced fat content from 70 to 35 percent. 
§Since 2010, KFC Australia has worked across its core menu offerings to reduce sodium, and in 2012 changed its cooking oil from sustainably sourced palm oil to locally sourced high-oleic canola oil, and also introduced side salads options as well as 
permanent grilled/baked menu choices. KFC Australia continues to look for ways in which it can make further improvements.
§KFC Australia products are free from artificial trans fats and is working to remove all artificial colors and flavors by the end of 2018.
§In 2015, Pizza Hut U.S. became the first national pizza company to remove artificial flavors and colors from its core pizzas 
and WingStreet products, and is committed to the same goal internationally by 2018. As of 2017, Pizza Hut had removed 
approximately 72 percent and 78 percent of artificial flavors and coloring, respectively, from all food ingredients.
§Pizza Hut domestically and internationally has eliminated partially hydrogenated oils (PHOs) from its entire menu. Pizza Hut 
U.S. has eliminated MSG from its core menu and BHA/BHT from pepperoni.
§Pizza Hut U.S. adds no sugar or oil to its pizza marinara sauce, and its cheese is made from 100 percent whole milk mozzarella.
§In 2015, T aco Bell removed all artificial flavors and colors, replacing them with natural alternatives. The brand also removed 
high-fructose corn syrup and partially hydrogenated oils (also known as artificial trans fats) from its food. These simplifications 
impact more than 95 percent of the Taco Bell menu, not including beverages and co-branded items.
§In 2017, Taco Bell eliminated the XL 40 oz. soda cup size, helping consumers remove 800 million grams of sugar and 
approximately 3.2 billion calories from their diets each year. It also replaced three full-calorie beverages with three 
zero-to-mid-calorie options, equivalent to a 15 percent reduction in added sugar across the beverage portfolio.
§By the end of 2018, Taco Bell will remove preservatives and other additives from its food, where possible. 
Our nutrition strategy focuses on simplifying ingredients by removing artificial flavors, colors, 
preservatives and additives such as trans fats, reducing sodium and lowering calories and fats.Nutrients We Limit
Simplifying Our Ingredients
25
FOOD  > CHOICE & NUTRITION
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTRESPONSIBLE MARKETING
A Commitment to Transparency
Yum! Brands believes in responsible labeling and stays abreast of labeling 
regulations affecting our brands across the globe. In many countries, 
government guidelines inform our labeling and nutrition requirements 
per individual portion. Guidelines are already in place in Australia, Canada, 
Korea and the U.K., and appear to be on the horizon in Peru and Saudi Arabia. All of these countries have implemented labeling guidelines for 
sodium, fat and calories per portion specific to local regulations. 
In the U.S., we comply with all federal regulations and guidelines 
for nutrition and menu labeling, such as the U.S. Nutrition Labeling 
Requirements set forth by the Food and Drug Administration, New York 
City’s sodium labeling requirements and the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act (California Proposition 65). 
Our brands’ websites and social media channels are an important way in 
which we educate consumers and other stakeholders about our progress 
against nutrition goals and the nutritional profile of our products.  
Taco Bell is a leader in this area as one of the first quick-service restaurants 
to voluntarily post its full nutrition information online in 2005. Today, 
all three of Yum!'s brands publicize nutrition information for their full U.S. menus and have nutrition calculators available online or through 
mobile apps. Pizza Hut and Taco Bell also list nutrition information for 
regional and limited-time-offer menu items. These tools list all ingredients, food allergens and nutrition for each permanent menu item, making it 
simple for consumers to understand what’s in their food, customize 
their orders and make conscious choices about what to eat.Nutrition Calculator
Interactive Nutrition MenuNutrition CalculatorInteractive Nutrition MenuNutrition CalculatorInteractive Nutrition MenuNUTRITION
AT YOUR FINGERTIPS 
(U.S. only)We are committed to responsible labeling and advertising practices across our brands. We work closely 
with franchisees worldwide to promote transparency about our food, both in our restaurants and online.
ADVERTISING TO CHILDREN
We understand that parents of young children have evolving preferences 
about the food they feed their families. While kids’ meals are not a focus 
area for Yum! Brands and represent a very small percentage of our business, 
we are mindful of how we market to children and work to increase transparency around the ingredients we serve to our younger consumers. 
In the U.S., we do not advertise on television programs specifically 
aimed at children under 12 years old and encourage markets outside the U.S. to refrain from it as well.§Taco Bell was the first national quick-service restaurant chain to discontinue kids’ meals and toys in 2013.
§KFC Australia has been engaged with the Australian Quick Service Restaurant Industry Initiative for Responsible Advertising and 
Marketing to Children as a founding member since 2009 and 
no longer targets advertising campaigns directly at children.
§KFC Australia and Africa have removed toys from kids’ meals.
26
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFOOD  > RESPONSIBLE MARKETINGPLANETIN THIS SECTION
Planet Dashboard  ................................ 28
Green Buildings  .................................. 30
Energy Efficiency  .............................. 31
Water Conservation  ......................... 33
Waste Reduction  .............................. 36
Supply Chain  ....................................... 38
Animal Protein  ................................. 39
Forest Stewardship  ........................... 41
PLANET
We Grow Sustainably
GOALS
GREEN BUILDINGS
Design, build and operate green buildings to be 
measurably more sustainable using green building 
standards to drive reductions in energy consumption, water use, GHG emissions and waste, all while reporting 
annual progress.
§Reduce average restaurant energy and GHG emissions 
by an additional 10 percent by the end of 2025
§Reduce average restaurant water consumption by an additional 10 percent by the end of 2025 with a focus 
on high water-stress areas
§Divert 50 percent of back-of-house operational waste, 
measured by weight, generated in our U.S. restaurants 
by the end of 2020SUPPLY CHAIN
Engage in building a responsible supply chain that 
protects forests, respects human rights, supports animal welfare and enables good antimicrobial stewardship.
§Source 100 percent of palm oil used for cooking from responsible and sustainable sources by the end of 2018
§Purchase 100 percent of our paper-based packaging with fiber from responsibly managed forests and recycled 
sources by the end of 2020
§Continue our commitments in the U.S. to source chicken 
raised without antibiotics important to human medicine
§Seek continuous improvement and establish a reporting mechanism to demonstrate our ongoing commitment 
to sustainable production systems that protect human, 
animal and environmental health as stated in our holistic Sustainable Animal Protein Principles & Good 
Antimicrobial Stewardship Program
MATERIAL ISSUES
§Animal Welfare
§Energy, Emissions
& Climate Change
§Sustainable Sourcing
§Waste & Recycling
§WaterKEY STAKEHOLDERS
§Community Members
§Employees
§Franchisees
§Franchisee Employees
§Investors
§NGOs
§Suppliers
28
PLANET > DASHBOARD
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT§Responding to changes in regulation and operational costs related to 
GHG emissions and energy consumption throughout our value chain
§Evaluating and implementing new technologies and energy sourcing solutions that can reduce energy use and emissions
§Further understanding and addressing increasing levels of concern about
KEY TAKEAWAYS
§All of our environmental initiatives — from building improvements to efforts to source responsibly sourced timber and palm oil — are 
examined through the lens of reducing GHG emissions and addressing 
climate change. 
§More than one-third of new restaurants are meeting the requirements of our green building efforts that provide guidelines for reducing energy 
and water consumption and constructing buildings to leave a smaller 
footprint on the planet.
§At restaurants worldwide, more efficient equipment — as well as tools that allow restaurants to monitor and manage their consumption — are leading 
to lower energy use and, therefore, lower emissions. Since 2005, these 
improvements have saved an estimated 4.3 billion MWh of electricity.
§Taking into account the needs of our diverse global markets, Yum! restaurants reduce water through smart building practices — such 
as high-efficiency irrigation and low-flow fixtures — that will save an 
estimated 1.3 billion gallons of water from 2017 initiatives alone. §Yum! restaurants work to recycle used cooking oil, cardboard and plastic waste, and we are an industry leader in donation of wholesome, 
surplus food from our restaurants, with 6.9 million pounds of food 
donated in 2017. 
§Yum! Brands works to minimize risk throughout our supply chain by requiring that suppliers follow our Supplier Code of Conduct and by 
engaging in periodic risk assessments and audits. 
§Our Sustainable Animal Protein Principles guide our decisions regarding 
food safety and quality, animal health, environmental stewardship, food 
security and supplier relationships related to animal protein sourcing. 
§We are aware of the rising global threat of antimicrobial resistance and
support the One Health approach by working closely with suppliers 
on responsible, judicious use and reducing the use of antimicrobials 
important to human medicine where possible. 
§By committing to source 100 percent of palm oil and paper-based packaging from sustainable sources by the end of 2018 and 2020, 
respectively, Yum! Brands is helping protect forests and the ecosystems
and communities they support.the challenges of industry waste, including lack of infrastructure, lack of 
influence over consumer behavior and challenges with industry regulation
§Identifying regions of operation in which water scarcity issues are high and addressing water use
§Understanding and addressing the environmental and social risksassociated with our key supply chains including palm oil, beef, 
chicken and paper
OPPORTUNITIES & CHALLENGES
29
PLANET > DASHBOARD
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTYum!’s green building strategy is influenced by our belief that we have a 
responsibility to reduce our environmental impact and the resulting GHG 
emissions that contribute to climate change. Approximately 38 percent 
of new company- and franchisee-owned restaurants follow Yum!’s green building standards. As a result of green building activities in 2017, we expect to save an estimated 124,000 MWh of electricity and $18.3 million 
across the Yum! system in 2018.
We believe in building restaurants that not only allow us to serve 
great-tasting food, but also are employee- and customer-friendly, produce 
fewer emissions and waste and complement the natural environments 
in which they operate. These goals are frequently aligned. For example, better cooking equipment prepares food for customers faster. It also uses 
less power and generates less heat, which means less air conditioning is 
required. This reduces GHG emissions and saves franchisees money at the same time.
Yum! Brands has long maintained rigorous standards for the design and 
construction of green buildings that aim to reduce energy consumption and GHGs. Our standards, which guide restaurant development and renovation, incorporate relevant aspects of the U.S. Green Building 
Council’s globally recognized green building program, Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification. We've tailored this globally recognized green building standard to the unique demands of 
our restaurants. We take into consideration green building methods, 
including energy-efficient equipment and practices, as well as guidance on minimizing urban heat islands, placing new restaurants near public transit services, using sustainable construction materials and educating 
both employees and consumers on green features. GREEN BUILDINGS
Smarter & More Sustainable Restaurants 
Every day across the world, seven new Yum! Brands restaurants open for the first time.  
That’s seven opportunities a day to think smart about building construction.
38%
Estimated new restaurants 
built using certified green  
building practices
A FLEXIBLE APPROACH 
Our standards are designed to recognize franchisees for what they can 
do, not what they can’t. We recognize that policies, utility pricing, approach 
feasibility and consumer preferences may differ greatly among our 
various markets, making various building standards more or less difficult to achieve. For this reason, brands and markets may adapt our recommendations to fit their unique workflows. KFC has done exactly 
this, creating a program using its own brand development standards 
referred to as KFC — Building Green. Building Green uses its own credit system to help KFC markets select credits that will make the greatest 
impact for the brand. 
Our green building strategy focuses on new buildings, which allows 
us to build green from the start. We aim to make adoption easy by 
incorporating efficient operational features into restaurant templates 
and hosting workshops to explain the financial and environmental paybacks that are within franchisees’ reach. Over time, lessons learned are incorporated into remodels and existing restaurants. In 2017, Yum! 
and our franchisees invested $25 million in innovative technologies 
for new building construction to reduce energy usage and associated GHG emissions.
30
PLANET > GREEN BUILDINGS
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTThis is why Energy, Emissions & Climate Change is among our most 
material issues. Our company is working to reduce our energy consumption 
in order to build and maintain trust with our stakeholders, realize cost 
savings and, most importantly, be part of the global community committed to reducing its GHG footprint.
A meaningful way we can accomplish these goals is by improving the 
efficiency of our restaurants. Restaurants are energy-intensive and open long hours, which makes energy efficiency a key part of our to sustainable restaurant design. To minimize the impact of our restaurants on the 
environment, we employ a combination of new technologies and 
smart operating practices that allow us to use less energy. Decreasing energy use, in turn, lowers our GHG emissions, allowing us to address 
U.N. Sustainable Development Goal No. 13: Climate Action. 
Since 2005, we have demonstrated a steady track record of reducing 
energy consumption. Through 2017, we were pleased to achieve a 
targeted 22 percent reduction in energy use compared to our 2005 
base year for company-owned and participating franchise restaurants. Energy initiatives have resulted in saving an estimated 4.3 billion MWh of electricity.
Similarly, transitioning to better technology to reduce building energy 
usage also provides focus to reduce energy to an entire site. Over  
75 percent energy reduction has been achieved while maintaining 
high security standards for the parking lot, drive-thru and entire site. 
Greater reduction of light pollution after sunset contributes to the overall sustainability goal.These system-level efficiencies have occurred even as our restaurant count has grown. We have also made steady improvements in GHG emissions 
intensity per restaurant. By the end of 2025, we hope to reduce our average 
restaurant emissions by an additional 10 percent and will continue to report our progress through CDP-Climate and other reporting frameworks.
Our current best practices are included in our green building standards. 
Although we have ample experience and well-documented strategies, innovations in lighting, air-conditioning, ventilation and cooking equipment are always evolving. We carefully evaluate and apply new technologies when 
they provide the right balance of environmental and economic benefits.
Yum!’s three brands offer very different menu options — and the opportunities 
and challenges they face regarding energy efficiency differ as well. On the 
following page, see how Yum! restaurants worldwide are finding ways to 
lower their emissions.Energy Efficiency
Great Taste with Less Impact 
Yum! recognizes the global threat of climate change and supports the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
We also acknowledge our own responsibility to reduce our environmental impact and resulting 
GHG emissions that contribute to a changing climate.
40,000
Energy- and water-saving technologies 
implemented in 2017
22%
Energy reduction compared to 
2005 baselineGHG EMISSIONS
MT CO 2e per restaurant 
2015 2016 2017 2013397
2014368
333
243 236*“ A s Yum! grows as a business, we aim to do 
so in a way that respects the planet. With 
our system quickly expanding, it’s more 
important than ever for us to minimize 
each restaurant’s environmental impact.”
JON HIXSON — Yum! Vice President, Government Relations and Global 
Citizenship & Sustainability
* P er-restaurant GHG emissions can be impacted by factors such as conservation measures, weather conditions 
and changes in store locations. Numbers are representative of reporting markets. This currently includes our 
China franchise market. For more information, see our CDP-Climate response.
31
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPLANET > ENERGY EFFICIENCYSmaller Footprints 
What’s left to do once equipment is fully optimized? 
Pizza Hut and Taco Bell have discovered that 
decreasing a restaurant’s physical footprint is an 
effective way to lower its emissions. Pizza Hut’s 
delivery-carryout (Delco) restaurants and Taco Bell’s 
urban in-line locations are our smallest restaurants, 
which means there’s less space to cool, heat and 
illuminate. Delco and in-line restaurants also share 
walls with existing buildings, which leads to greater 
energy efficiency and fewer construction materials 
needed. These new restaurant types have become 
popular both for their cost and energy benefits. 
More than five years ago, Pizza Hut introduced 
the “Delco Lite” restaurant concept, shaving 
several hundred square feet off its traditional 
Delco restaurants. Taco Bell’s in-line restaurants 
are a newer introduction, and the brand plans to 
open up approximately 275 of these restaurant 
types annually around the world by 2022.Smart Devices
Operating more efficiently means not only 
upgrading individual pieces of equipment, but 
also improving the way that equipment and 
people work together. For example, motion sensors 
and set points for air conditioners reduce the 
possibility of using more energy than necessary. 
At KFC restaurants in Australia, extractor hoods 
and cookers are linked: The hood dynamically 
adjusts its extraction rate depending on how 
many cookers are venting. In certain geographies, 
both KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants can use smart 
energy monitoring tools that make them aware of 
peaks in energy usage and alert them to possible 
malfunctions. KFC Australia restaurants can monitor 
power use online in 15-minute intervals and receive 
a warning if usage spikes by more than 10 percent.Solar Energy 
Frying KFC chicken uses significant amounts of energy, which is why KFC restaurants worldwide 
have begun to explore the use of solar energy to 
help power its restaurants. In Australia, more than 
50 KFC restaurants, both franchisee- and company-  
owned, are joining together to get preferred rates on a solar rollout. Meanwhile, four KFC 
restaurants in South Africa recently installed 
solar panels, which will deliver a combined 
savings of more than 130 MT of CO
2 per year.  
At a Taco Bell restaurant in El Paso, Texas, a 
3-kilowatt solar photovoltaic system produces 
7 MWh of renewable energy per year. Taco Bell 
is testing self-contained parking lot lighting, site 
signage and building signage using off-the-grid 
solar harvesting methods.Pizza Ovens
As with all types of equipment, the design and performance of the ovens that Pizza Hut uses to 
bake its pizzas has improved greatly over the 
years. Newer ovens offer benefits in insulation 
and energy efficiency. Upgrading equipment 
brings not only cost- and energy-saving benefits, 
but it also ensures consistency, allowing Pizza 
Hut to deliver quality pizzas everywhere they 
operate. New high-efficiency ovens, as well as 
new HVAC and controls installed in 2017, are 
expected to save a total of roughly 832.4 MT 
CO
2e at Pizza Hut restaurants in the U.S.Lighting
From kitchens to dining areas, parking lots to signage, lighting is an important part of all our 
restaurants. Transitioning to LED lights in both 
new and existing restaurants makes for a double 
win: The lights use less energy and last longer 
than traditional bulbs, so less material is wasted. 
When combined with daylight and motion 
sensors in strategic areas, we can further reduce 
our electricity use. Installing LED lights at all 
KFC restaurants in Australia led to a 50 percent 
decrease in lighting power consumption. Taco 
Bell is retrofitting its existing restaurants with 
LED light fixtures.Exhaust Hoods
Exhaust hoods capture heat and steam produced 
by our cooking equipment and are essential for 
the safe operation of our kitchens. They are also 
the primary driver of heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning (HVAC) energy use because they 
remove large quantities of air during operating 
hours. This air needs to be replaced, which uses 
energy. Restaurants can reduce the volume of air 
that passes through their hoods by using efficient 
equipment that generates less heat and by 
orienting hoods to decrease exhaust rates. At 
Pizza Hut restaurants in France and Germany, 
improved hood design reduced exhaust by 
more than 50 percent, with a payback of less 
than two years. Taco Bell has implemented 
higher efficiency HVAC systems in more than 
1,000 restaurants from 2012–2017, reducing 
energy usage by approximately 25 percent.Energy Efficiency  Inside Yum! Buildings
32
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPLANET > ENERGY EFFICIENCYGood water stewardship matters to employees, customers and shareholders, 
as underscored by the results of our materiality assessment. It also matters 
to Yum!. We have been addressing water use in our restaurants since 2005, 
when we set a goal to reduce water consumption in company-owned restaurants by 10 percent by 2015. Yum! reached our goal in 2017 and avoided using roughly 2.2 billion gallons of water during that time period. 
These savings have come through implementation of water conservation 
measures such as low-flow fixtures and improved irrigation techniques.
At Yum! corporate headquarters in Louisville, Ky., we have upgraded 
our irrigation system to reduce water use by 40 percent, saving about 
1.1 million gallons of water annually. In 2018, we expect to save 1.3 billion gallons of water system-wide, resulting in roughly $2.3 million in savings. 
Through these efforts, we are helping to address UN Sustainable 
Development Goal No. 6, which calls for ensuring access to water. 
Yum!'s operations and supply chain are dependent on water for many 
important functions, so we continually monitor and looks for ways to 
optimize its use. In 2017, we conducted a water risk assessment using the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct tool, which considers restaurants’ water risk by location, brand and withdrawal volume. Due 
to the number of new restaurants opened by Yum! Brands and our 
franchisees each year, we plan to update this water stress review and risk scores every two years to maintain an adequate picture of our risk 
exposure. In 2017, restaurants in Cape Town, South Africa saw these risks 
come to life when drought conditions severely restricted water availability.
Yum! shares its water risks and conservation efforts with Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP) and received a Water Score of A minus for 2017. We have 
partnered with CDP since 2011 to report data for U.S. restaurants. International locations may be included in future reporting efforts as we improve our data collection methods.Water Conservation
Making a Difference Drop by Drop
As a global company, some of our restaurants operate in water-stressed areas and are 
committed to pursuing investments that allow us to continually improve water efficiency.
While our existing sustainable paper-based 
packaging and palm oil commitments are  
not directly related to our restaurant water 
reduction efforts, we are committed to procuring both from responsible and sustainable sources, 
which results in improved global forest health 
and watersheds.
CONSERVING WATER AT TACO BELL 
Irrigation can account for up to 45 percent of a restaurant’s water use. With water costs and awareness 
of water scarcity issues increasing, Taco Bell decided to take action to reduce its impact. After a 
conservation pilot program in 2012 successfully demonstrated a 40 percent reduction in irrigation 
water, Taco Bell overhauled the irrigation systems in over 900 of its company-owned restaurants and updated its specification for new construction to a new, less water-intensive standard. The brand’s 
new 2017 landscape designs, being adopted by both company and franchise restaurants, focus on 
drought-resistant planting such as zero-scaping and reducing water use through irrigation controls and bioretention design, as well as consideration of regional precipitation and hardiness zones and 
providing local support as needs differ.
10%
Reduction  
in water 
consumption
2015 – 2017*
*Company-owned and
reporting franchise groups
2015 20163.173.06
2.51
2017TOTAL FRESHWATER 
CONSUMPTION IN 
U.S. COMPAN Y-OWNED 
RESTAURANTS
ML 
33
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPLANET > WATER CONSERVATIONReducing Water
in Yum! Restaurants
Restaurant Type
Our brands are very different. This is reflected in 
their water use. In 2017, the average Pizza Hut 
restaurant in the U.S. used about 3.5 times  
less water than a KFC restaurant.
Water Stress 
Using the WRI Aqueduct tool, we evaluate global 
shed conditions for the 45,000 restaurants in our 
system. Approximately 20 percent depend on 
water supplies located in watersheds facing  
high levels of stress. In these areas, we  
implement measures to ensure we don’t  
use more water than necessary.
Local Regulations 
Local regulations, such as those put in place 
during severe droughts, affect which practices  
we employ. Jurisdictions with higher prices  
for water tend to encourage greater  
conservation by all users.
Green Building Features 
Company-owned restaurants and franchisees who 
choose to participate in our green building efforts 
have access to market-based tools and best 
practices for improving water conservation.Irrigation 
Irrigation system improvements, such as sensors 
that prevent irrigation when it is raining, and the 
addition of local and drought-tolerant plant species, 
decrease our need for irrigation water.
Equipment 
From dishwashers in the kitchen to ice machines in 
the dining area, high-efficiency equipment helps us 
save money and minimize our water use.
Restrooms 
Low-flow fixtures like toilets and faucet taps are 
inexpensive upgrades that make it easy to use less. 
Another option is to add sensors or time-limited 
metering devices to hand wash sinks.WHAT AFFECTS WATER USAGE?
HOW ARE WE USING LESS?
34
 2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPLANET > WATER CONSERVATIONEngagement and Education  
at KFC Australia
KFC restaurants in Australia have long been leaders in building efficiency. 
The restaurants go well beyond efficient equipment and sustainable 
building design — they also offer an opportunity to engage employees 
about the importance of sustainability. Each time a new KFC opens in 
Australia, employees receive a welcome letter describing the restaurant’s 
sustainable features, plus a reusable coffee mug to encourage them  
to cut down on waste. 
Efficient operation goes beyond simply installing efficient equipment. 
Restaurant general managers (RGMs) undergo training about the 
importance of reducing energy use, including instruction to switch on 
machinery only when it is needed, rather than upon arrival in the morning. 
RGMs also have access to online tools that track energy usage in 30-minute 
intervals, allowing them to make adjustments in real time. This system 
has been deployed across the majority of franchise restaurants. Restaurant owners also embrace initiatives that go beyond financial 
payback, such as tanks to collect rainwater for irrigation and bike racks 
to encourage environmentally friendly transportation. Low-VOC paints, 
adhesives and sealants create a healthier indoor environment, and 
windows installed in the cooking area help bring the outdoors into the 
kitchen. Franchisees are eager for more buildings like these: In 2018, KFC 
Australia hopes to achieve Building Green certification for 75 percent of 
its new restaurants.
Eco-friendly KFC in Nilai, MalaysiaLEED-certified KFC in Lidcombe, New South Wales
KFC Malaysia LEEDs in 
Building Efficiency
When Malaysia’s government announced a nationwide commitment to 
sustainable growth, KFC wanted to be part of the solution. The construction 
of a new restaurant in Nilai Square began with the ambitious goal of 
incorporating as many green elements as possible into one building. 
The result was KFC Malaysia’s first green building, which opened in 2015. 
The restaurant uses solar energy to generate hot water for the kitchen. 
Natural sunlight, LED lighting and an integrated control system result 
in 35 percent less energy use than conventional lighting. Irrigation 
utilizes rainwater that is captured and reused. KFC is also working with 
upstream operators to convert used cooking oil into biodiesel and with 
local authorities on waste segregation.
35
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPLANET > GREEN BUILDINGSWith Waste & Recycling identified as a material issue, we have set an 
aspirational goal to divert from landfills 50 percent of operational waste, 
as measured by weight, in our U.S. restaurants by 2020. To achieve this 
goal, we are focused on four main waste categories: used cooking oil, 
cardboard, food and packaging. In 2017, it is estimated that we generated 885,000 tons of operational waste in the U.S. and diverted approximately 
25 percent of that quantity. We will continue to work to improve our 
diversion rate primarily through recycling used cooking oil, packaging and donating surplus food.  Waste Reduction
Making the Most of Our Resources
Yum! Brands is committed to first reducing, and then mindfully reusing or 
recycling, the waste generated at our restaurants.
At KFC restaurants in t he U.K. and Ireland, nearly all of our co okin g 
oil is recycled into  biodiesel or energy. I n Australia, we partner with 
a third-party supplier who repurposes our used oil for biodiesel and 
animal feed. U.S. waste oil is also common ly reused. In 2017, it's 
estimated that over 9 ,000 tons of used cooki ng oil was converted to 
biodiesel or animal feed.
Packaging is both an opportunity and a challenge. It plays a vital role in 
reducing food waste by k eeping food fresh, but excessive packaging 
contributes to nonfood and energy waste. We work continuously with 
our suppliers to remove, reuse or reduce packaging while maintaining 
products at the highest levels of quality. KFC Australia became the first 
quick-service restaurant t o participate in a nat ionwide recycling init iative 
funded by the Australian Packaging Covenant. The market also recycles 
98 percent of cardboard generated back-of-house in company-owned 
restaurants and the majority of cardboard from franchise restaurants. 
Reducing wasted food is where Yum! Brands has made the most 
significant strides. We adhere to the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency's Food Recovery Hierarchy, which shows that there are much 
better places for leftover foo d than the landfill or  even the compost 
bin. According to this hierarchy, reducing food waste begins at the 
source. We work with suppliers to purchase only as much fresh food  as 
we expect to sell to customers based on our projections. Food 40%
Corrugated Cardboard  15%
Paper 15%
Mixed Plastics  15%
Used Cooking Oil  10%
Other 5%
*As of year-end 2017Approximate KFC  
Restaurant Waste by Type
36
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPLANET > WASTE REDUCTIONThe Yum! Brands  
HARVEST PROGRAM
6.9 million
Pounds donated in 2017
KFC
80 million
Pounds donated since 1999
Pizza Hut
100 million
Pounds donated since 1992
17
Countries
$1 Billion
Total value of donated  
food since 1992  
According to Restaurant Food Waste Action GuideThe next best use for surplus food is to feed hungry people. That’s exactly 
what Yum! has been doing for more than 25 years with our Harvest 
program in partnership with Food Donation Connection. Through 
Harvest, KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants donate surplus food from our 
restaurants to food banks, soup kitchens and other nonprofits. KFC and 
Pizza Hut’s surplus foods are well-suited for donations since most are 
in meal-sized portions, like chicken drumsticks and whole pizzas.
Programs like Harvest are known to reduce GHG emissions from 
landfills and waste combustion. In 2017, the Yum! system avoided 
an estimated 14,500 MT of GHG emissions through food donation 
and recycling programs globally.
As our company transforms to comprise a greater proportion of franchise 
restaurants, we are sharing with franchisees the environmental, social 
and financial benefits of participating in this program. Learn about the 
Harvest program’s community benefits . 
The Harvest program is the longest-running food donation program in our 
industry and has made Yum! a leader among our peers. We participate in and 
co-chair the Food Waste Reduction Alliance (FWRA), a partnership between 
the Food Marketing Institute®, the Grocery Manufacturers Association 
and the National Restaurant Association. Yum! representatives recently 
joined the FWRA in briefing the U.S. Congress on the Alliance’s mission 
to reduce food waste in the U.S. In the U.K., we are a member of the 
Waste & Resources Action Programme (WRAP). 
We're also a member of the ReFED advisory council, a multi-stakeholder 
nonprofit organization committed to reducing the $218 billion worth of 
food that is wasted each year in the U.S. ReFED works with businesses, 
investors, innovators and policymakers throughout the food system to 
implement solutions, envisioning a future where combatting food 
waste is a core driver of business profits, job creation, hunger relief and 
environmental protection. With Yum! Brands’ input, ReFED published 
the Restaurant Food Waste Action Guide in 2018. 
Yum! is the only quick-service restaurant that was invited to join the  
U.S. Food Loss and Waste Champions Group, committed to achieving 
the U.S. national goal of reducing food waste by 50 percent by 2030. 
This goal aligns with UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 12.3.
37
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPLANET > WASTE REDUCTIONBecause of this relationship, as well as our stakeholders’ identifying 
Sustainable Sourcing as a material issue, an inherent part of our vision 
to serve “Trust in Every Bite” is a commitment to sustainable sourcing 
practices that are mindful of our suppliers’ use of energy, water and 
waste and their impact on animal welfare and sourcing communities. 
Yum! suppliers must adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct , which sets 
basic requirements for all of our suppliers whether they provide us with 
food or beverages, packaging or equipment. We support suppliers in 
their efforts to conduct business in an environmentally and socially 
responsible way, in accordance with our sustainability policies and practices.Our current supply chain strategy focuses on four main pillars: food 
safety, supply continuity, cost-effective innovation and sustainability. We 
rely on third-party audits to monitor our supply chain. As Yum! becomes 
more franchised, third-party audits help to ensure consistent analyses 
across markets. 
We also are conducting a supply chain sustainability assessment, which 
will identify, evaluate and prioritize the risk profile of key commodities 
and countries of origin. Following the assessment’s findings, we will 
develop enterprise-wide recommendations for our supply chain 
sustainability strategy.
As one of the largest restaurant companies in the world, we are a 
large purchaser of animal protein and produce. We seek continuous 
improvement in our food sourcing and production systems across our 
agricultural supply chain, with a particular focus on animal welfare 
and forest stewardship.SUPPLY CHAIN
A Recipe for Sustainable Value
We work with thousands of suppliers across the globe. These suppliers are an extension of our brands and 
true partners in ensuring the availability and safety of the food we serve to millions of customers every 
day. Most of our U.S. purchases of food, packaging, equipment and other items are managed by Restaurant 
Supply Chain Solutions, our exclusive supply chain management partner for almost 20 years.
KFC has a supply chain 
council in each of its 
markets and is currently 
creating a global supply 
chain council to oversee 
the brand’s sustainable 
supply chain strategy.SUSTAINABLE SOURCING FOCUS AREAS
ANIMAL  
PROTEIN
Good Antimicrobial Stewardship
Cage-Free Eggs
Sustainable BeefFOREST 
STEWARDSHIP
Paper-Based Packaging
Palm OilLearn more about  
our management of  
Ethics & Human Rights
38
PLANET > SUPPLY CHAIN
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur commitment to animal health and well-being is unwavering and 
guided by our holistic, science-based Sustainable Animal Protein Principles. 
These principles consider the interrelated, complex issues involved in 
maintaining sustainable food production systems. 
We support the Five Freedoms for all animals used for food in our supply 
chain, which include:
Our animal protein sourcing is guided by a set of sustainable 
sourcing principles:
1. Food Safety & Quality:  Food safety and quality is our priority. That’s 
why we regularly audit suppliers to ensure compliance with our 
standards for animal welfare. Learn more about our food safety and 
quality governance and practices . 
2. Animal Health & Well-Being:  We believe in the ethical and humane 
treatment of animals raised for food. Our Animal Welfare Advisory 
Council, along with our sustainability team, advocates continuous Sustainable Animal Protein
Supporting Responsibly Produced Animal Protein
As a global food company that serves millions of meals containing poultry, beef, dairy, pork and  
egg products every day, Animal Welfare is among our most material issues. We have a responsibility  
to be good stewards of the animals raised for food throughout our supply chain.
improvement in the farm animal health and well-being practices of 
our suppliers and engagement with key animal welfare stakeholders. 
Ensuring animal health and well-being requires comprehensive, 
carefully considered health management programs that may at times 
use antimicrobials judiciously to maintain or restore good animal health.
3. Environmental Stewardship:  In collaboration with our suppliers, 
we are invested in implementing and maintaining sustainable, 
integrated livestock production systems that are mindful of air 
and water quality, land use and GHG emissions. We seek good 
livestock stewardship and continuous improvement to conserving 
environmental resources within our supply chain.
4. Food Security:  Global food security is a key part of the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals and remains at threat. Our sustainable sourcing 
practices help support the growing global need for more accessible 
sources of animal proteins like poultry. The safe and consistent production 
and availability of poultry is a major priority for Yum!, as consumer 
demand is expected to rise with population and economic growth.
5. Responsible Suppliers:  We partner with suppliers that are dedicated 
to producing safe and more animal proteins over the long term. Our 
suppliers must follow our Supplier Code of Conduct, which requires 
them to comply with our food safety and quality standards, maintain 
fair employment practices, and provide a safe, healthy and productive 
work environment. We offer third-party independent consultation and 
science-based education programs focused directly on strengthening 
their capability.
All chicken, eggs and dairy served domestically by Yum! Brands are 
USDA-inspected and supplied by domestic farms that operate according 
to industry-standard animal welfare guidelines. We are now in the process 
of synchronizing our animal welfare programs globally with the aim of 
adopting a foundational animal welfare auditing system and policies 
for poultry, eggs, beef, pork and dairy.FREEDOM FROM
HUNGER &
THIRST
FREEDOM FROM
DISCOMFORT
FREEDOM FROM
PAIN, INJURY  
OR DISEASEFREEDOM TO
EXPRESS 
NORMAL 
BEHAVIORFREEDOM FROM
FEAR &
DISTRESS 5
FREEDOMS 
OF ANIMAL 
WELFARE
39
PLANET > SUPPLY CHAIN
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTANTIBIOTIC USE
Our dedication to animal health and well-being requires thoughtful, 
comprehensive health management programs that may necessitate the 
use of antibiotics to maintain or restore good animal health. We are aware 
of the rising threat of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and support One 
Health, a holistic and multi-sectoral long-term effort to combat AMR by 
the United Nations World Health Organization (WHO), the Food and 
Agriculture Organization, the World Organisation for Animal Health 
and other key stakeholders. We believe AMR jeopardizes several UN 
Sustainable Development Goals and that responsible and judicious 
use of antimicrobials in agriculture is critical to world food security and 
beneficial to human, animal and environmental health. All of Yum!'s 
brands comply with the USDA guidelines that went into effect in 2017, 
to minimize antimicrobial resistance requiring that our U.S. suppliers 
remove medically important antimicrobials used for production purposes 
and ensuring that the use of such drugs for therapeutic treatment is 
overseen by a licensed veterinarian.  We have been working with our suppliers in recent years to minimize, 
where possible, the use of antimicrobials (including antibiotics) important 
to human medicine as defined by WHO. Each of our brands has made 
significant strides toward eliminating human crossover antibiotics in 
our poultry supply chain:
 §KFC:  By the end of 2018, all chicken purchased by KFC U.S. will be 
raised without antibiotics important to human medicine, as part of the 
brand’s return to its roots, a journey called Re-Colonelization. This 
effort aims to return KFC to Colonel Sanders’ standards and includes 
KFC chicken tenders and popcorn chicken. The commitment will also 
make KFC the first major chicken chain to extend this commitment to 
its bone-in chicken, which includes the signature Original Recipe, 
Extra Crispy and Kentucky Grilled Chicken, as well as KFC wings.  
 §Pizza Hut:  In 2017, Pizza Hut U.S. removed antibiotics important to 
human medicine from chicken served as pizza toppings. By 2022, the 
brand plans to remove antibiotics important to human medicine from 
its WingStreet wings. This makes Pizza Hut U.S. the first national pizza 
company to commit to removing medically important antibiotics from 
all the chicken it serves.
 §Taco Bell:  In 2016, Taco Bell committed to serving chickens raised 
without the use of antibiotics important to human medicine in all U.S. 
restaurants. The brand achieved this goal in 2017. 
Learn more about our Good Antimicrobial Stewardship  efforts.
SUSTAINABLE BEEF
We are currently exploring long- and short-term goals related to the 
sustainable sourcing of each of our key animal protein commodities. 
Taco Bell is one of the largest beef purchasers in the U.S., serving  
290 million pounds of 100 percent USDA premium ground beef each 
year. Given the importance of beef on Taco Bell’s menu, creating a more 
sustainable beef supply chain in the U.S. is a priority. To that end, Taco Bell 
is a member of the U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef (USRSB), a 
network of beef experts from the supply chain, academia and research, 
environmental and animal welfare organizations and veterinarians. This 
stakeholder engagement will help Taco Bell ensure that the U.S.-grown 
beef it sources meets Yum!’s standards for sustainable sourcing.
CAGE-FREE EGGS
Taco Bell met its 2016 goal to exclusively serve 100 percent cage-free eggs 
in all U.S. Taco Bell corporate and franchise-owned restaurants, making the 
transition faster than any other national quick-service restaurant brand. 
Since then, the brand expanded and achieved its secondary goal to source 
100 percent cage-free egg ingredients, meaning ingredients in all of its 
mayo-based sauces and desserts are now made using cage-free eggs.
40
PLANET > SUPPLY CHAIN
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTYum! sources a large volume of paper-based packaging, and we are 
committed to using environmentally preferable packaging that reduces 
our impact on the environment and the communities where we 
operate. We engage with stakeholders, including suppliers, 
manufacturers, converters, distributors and retailers to support our 
enterprisewide goal to purchase 100 percent of paper-based packaging 
with fiber from responsibly managed forests and recycled sources by 
the end of 2020.
We are making progress. In 2017, markets reported that an estimated 
69 percent of our global paper-based packaging and service products 
came from either certified virgin or recycled sources. Our Paper-Based 
Packaging Sourcing Policy  establishes sustainable sourcing principles to 
guide our packaging procurement decisions and is based on four principles: 
 §We do not purchase products made with fiber from illegal or 
unwanted sources.
 §We give preference to third-party-certified suppliers.
 §We increase the amount of recycled content used in the  
paper-based packaging.
 §We work to ensure compliance with our policies.Forest Stewardship
Minimizing Deforestation Risk
Yum! Brands is committed to preventing deforestation through our sustainable, 
paper-based packaging and palm oil sourcing strategies and policies.
More Sustainable Packaging at Taco Bell
Taco Bell replaced its plastic bags with paper 
bags made from 100 percent recyclable and 
renewable raw materials, 100 percent sourced in 
the U.S. Other sustainable packaging measures 
include a switch to polypropylene (plastic) side 
item containers from polystyrene foam and 
packaging the Mini Skillet Bowl in a reusable 
and dishwasher-safe container.
41
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPLANET > FOREST STEWARDSHIPSOURCING PALM OIL RESPONSIBLY 
Yum!’s second important commodity that can impact deforestation 
is palm oil. Our policy for sustainably sourcing our palm oil used for 
cooking is guided by six principles:
 §No development on High Conservation Value or High Carbon Stock forests
 §No development on peatlands and use of best management practices 
where production already exists on peatlands
 §Compliance with local laws and regulations
 §Prevention and resolution of social and/or land conflicts in accordance 
with the principle of free, prior and informed consent
 §Traceability to the extraction mill and validation of fresh fruit bunches
 §Respect and protection of human rights, including not employing 
underage children or forced laborers and prohibiting physical 
punishment or abuse
Since 2015, Yum! has sought to reduce palm oil used for cooking oil. 
Certain brands and markets have already achieved this milestone: For 
example, KFC restaurants in the U.K. fully eliminated palm oil from their 
food production in 2015. As result of global partnerships among brands, 
franchisees and suppliers, approximately 80 percent of the palm oil 
volume purchased in 2017 was reported to be from sustainable sources —  
an improvement from the estimated 63 percent achieved in 2016. Many 
of our markets contributed to this progress, including China which moved 
to sustainable palm oil during the year. By the end of 2018, we will source 
100 percent of our palm oil from responsible and sustainable sources.
Markets that continue to use palm oil purchase only from suppliers who 
meet our sourcing principles and give preference to those who are certified 
by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). RSPO works along the 
full palm oil supply chain to develop and implement global standards that 
minimize the negative impact of palm oil production on the environment 
and the communities from which it’s sourced.Yum! sustainable sourcing policies and principles are intended to mitigate 
our impact on climate change by reducing deforestation related to the 
timber and palm oil that we source. To track our progress, we survey 
business units worldwide regarding their accomplishments against our 
sustainable fiber and palm oil sourcing goals. The results of the survey 
are used to report on our commitments to sustainable sourcing in our 
CDP responses on Climate Change and Forests.
Since 2016, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell have 
also used certified sustainable palm 
oil as an ingredient in U.S. menu items 
such as in the Hershey’s® Ultimate 
Chocolate Chip Cookie and the caramel 
apple empanada, respectively.
42
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPLANET > FOREST STEWARDSHIPPEOPLEIN THIS SECTION
People Dashboard  ............................... 44
Culture & Talent  ................................... 45
Talent Development  ............................ 47
Opportunities for  
Restaurant Employees  ..................... 48
Scholarships & Academic Support  ...49
Opportunities for  
Corporate Employees  ....................... 50
Diversity & Inclusion  ............................ 51
Employee Resource Groups  ............. 52
Partnerships & Recognition  ............. 52
Franchise Diversity  ........................... 53
Supplier Diversity  ............................. 53
Community & Philanthropy ................. 54
Hunger Relief  ................................... 55
Literacy  ............................................. 56
Youth Education  ............................... 57
Employee Giving  .............................. 59
Employee Benefits  .............................. 60
Ethics & Human Rights  ........................ 61
PEOPLE
We Unlock Potential
GOALS
LEADERSHIP , EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT,  
LABOR PRACTICES, CULTURE & TALENT
 §Measure Yum! Brands’ employee engagement
 §Provide Yum! Brands’ employees with training and 
development that builds world-class leaders and 
business results
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
 §Minimize or eliminate unconscious bias through 
employee education
 §Significantly increase the number of women in senior 
leadership globally
 §Significantly increase diverse representation of 
underrepresented minorities in U.S. brands
 §Share successes and challenges with other companies
 §Ensure our workplaces are places where employees can 
have complex conversations about diversity and inclusion
HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR
 §Remain committed to our Global Code of Conduct  and 
Supplier Code of Conduct , which addresses guidelines 
for working conditions consistent with frameworks such 
as those of the International Labour Organization (ILO)OPPORTUNITIES & CHALLENGES
 §Attracting and retaining talent in the quick-service restaurant sector
 §Monitoring and adhering to laws that pertain to employee wages, 
immigration status and other employment issues
 §Ensuring ethical practices across the entire business in more than  
135 countries and territories
KEY TAKEAWAYS
 §Yum!’s two biggest assets are our brands and our people. As we build 
the world’s most loved, trusted and fastest growing restaurant brands, 
an essential driver of growth is our unrivaled culture and talent, which 
enables us to fuel brand performance and franchisee success. 
 §We encourage corporate and franchise team members around the 
world to grow professionally, personally and academically, believing 
that the strongest employees are those who can be themselves and 
are challenged to do their best. 
 §We aim to create an inclusive and ethical workforce in order to be 
a workplace of choice and to drive business results by connecting 
meaningfully with diverse employees, customers, franchisees and 
suppliers worldwide. 
 §We cultivate a workplace where diversity is welcomed, sought out  
and developed at all levels of the company and franchise leadership. 
 §As a global restaurant company whose franchisees are a major 
employer of young people, our giving priorities — hunger relief, 
literacy, and youth empowerment and education — are areas in which 
we have the greatest potential to make an impact. 
 §Yum! seeks to unlock the potential of the communities where we 
work and live. We ensure employees have the time and resources to 
give back to organizations that are meaningful to them and support 
nonprofits near our hometown corporate offices. 
MATERIAL ISSUES
 §Talent Attraction, Engagement  
& Retention
 §Human Rights & Labor Practices
 §Ethics & ComplianceKEY STAKEHOLDERS
 §Employees
 §Franchisees
 §Franchisee Employees
 §Local Communities
44
PEOPLE > DASHBOARD
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTLikewise, talent attraction, engagement and retention are strategic to 
our business success and among our most material corporate social 
responsibility issues.
We have a values-driven culture. In the way we recognize wins and believe in 
all people, we’ve made sure Yum! remains a company that feels like a 
community. Our culture emphasizes fun, recognition for wins big and small, 
and a focus on breakthrough results. We take a tremendous amount of pride 
in every individual, which we demonstrate by encouraging all employees 
to master their skill sets and constantly expand their expertise. This mindset 
makes every day dynamic, which leads to long and rewarding careers.
We firmly believe that our culture gives us a competitive advantage and 
are committed to maintaining it going forward. To help, Yum! CEO Greg 
Creed created and teaches a leadership development course for corporate 
employees and franchisees worldwide called Leading Culture to Fuel 
Results. Creed created the course to inspire employees and franchisees 
to become leaders who lead and prioritize our values-driven culture. The 
course centers around the idea that, by using culture as a foundation 
for establishing strategy and structure, we can create an atmosphere for 
successful business results. Since the program launched in 2016, more CULTURE & TALENT
Building a Workplace of Choice
Yum! Brands’ culture of recognition, as well as opportunities to grow and to make a 
meaningful difference, are the primary reasons many employees at all levels of the  
company say that they choose to stay at Yum!, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell.
YUM! BRANDS' VALUES
We have a values-driven culture. Our values challenge 
and inspire us to elevate our brands, culture, performance 
and impact on customers and the communities that 
we serve. These values are:
 §Champion the customer experience
 §Serve up trust in every bite
 §Adopt and share the best ideas
 §Deliver results, overnight and over time
 §Be focused and stay hungry
 §Recognize wins, big and small
 §Lead with smart, heart and courage
 §Believe in all people
 §Make the world better
45
PEOPLE > CULTURE & TALENT
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTthan 95 percent of senior corporate leaders have taken part. Over the past 
two years, more than 15 courses have been conducted with employees 
and franchisees across more than 10 countries. In 2017 alone, courses 
were held in Hong Kong, India, Poland, the United Arab Emirates and 
the U.S. We plan to take Leading Culture to Fuel Results deeper into our 
organization over the coming years, including training more corporate 
employees and franchisees at various levels around the world. 
At Pizza Hut, employees are encouraged to live “Life Unboxed,” 
fostering a culture where people can be their best, make friends 
and have fun. As part of this movement, the brand announced Life 
Unboxed EDU, an educational partnership that helps team members 
earn college degrees. Pizza Hut also updated its staff uniforms and 
launched the Heartstyles training program for its leaders.
It continues to award the Lou Folino Life Unboxed Award annually to a 
RGM who champions culture-driving initiatives in the restaurant and in 
the communities they serve. The campaign was recently awarded the 
Gold Award for Brandon Hall Group’s Excellence in Talent Management 
Awards and the WorkHappier Trailblazer Award from BI Worldwide. 
Taco Bell’s leadership programs for RGMs, shift leads and area coaches — 
called theMark, theSpark and theQuest, respectively — are offered to  
all its restaurants in the U.S. These unique programs help individuals 
discover their leadership vision and how to lead at every level. More than 
3,000 RGMs have flown to Taco Bell headquarters to attend theMark, 
where they also participate in community service projects and share 
ideas about how to create the best restaurant culture.Since 2013, Taco Bell has consistently measured culture and engagement 
in restaurants with The Pulse. Nearly 35,000 team members take The Pulse 
survey three times a year, which helps restaurant leaders understand how 
they’re doing and provides tools to measure progress against goals.
A strong culture keeps high-performing employees at Yum! and our 
restaurants. Our retention rates are equal to or higher than those of our 
industry peers and results on our employee engagement survey show 
high levels of engagement among corporate employees. Sustained high 
scores on this survey were especially encouraging in 2017, given Yum!'s 
2016 spinoff of the China business and announcement of our multi-year 
transformation plan to become a more focused, franchised and efficient 
company to drive future growth. This continued engagement during a 
time of great change is a testament to the power of our brands, strong 
culture and employees’ dedication to our mission. “ Our people-first culture and investment 
in our employees is a top priority for us as 
we build the world’s most loved, trusted 
and fastest growing restaurant brands.”
TRACY SKEANS  — Yum! Chief Transformation & People Officer
LEADING WITH HEART AT KFC 
KFC believes that for leaders to be successful, they must be “smart with heart,” meaning that when 
they are themselves with their teams, they build a more authentic, open and honest culture that 
delivers greater results. Leading With Heart was designed to enable leaders from CEO to RGM to gain 
insights into their own behavior and identify why they do the things they do through the use of the 
Heartstyles Indicator, a character development tool. The transformational, two-day workshop provides 
participants with the opportunity to gain insight about their own behaviors, develop strength of 
character through self-awareness activities and become more effective in both their personal and 
professional lives. The program is currently available in more than 25 countries and by the end of 
2018 will be translated into 24 languages.
LEADING WITH HEART has the potential to reach                       KFC RGMs  
who influence                             team members who, in turn, impact                                  
customers every year.20,000
800,000
2 Billion
46
PEOPLE > CULTURE & TALENT
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTToday, 97 percent of Yum! restaurants are owned by 
franchisees. This diversified, decentralized structure demands 
an approach to building people's capability that is customized 
and highly interactive. Yum! and our brands aim to create 
programs across the world that unlock individual talent, 
inspire growth and foster both business and personal 
development. Because we know that employees learn  
in different ways, we offer a variety of experiences from 
self-study to online classes to classroom training.We sustain our winning culture by recruiting the best people and developing their potential. No matter where 
employees are within our organization or in their careers, continuing development is an important focus. TALENT DEVELOPMENT
Helping Our People Grow
47
PEOPLE > TALENT DEVELOPMENT
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWorking at one of our restaurants is a first job for many of our team members.  
Whether our employees choose to pursue a career at Yum! or use our educational  
resources as a launchpad for other goals, we are proud to help them develop skills  
and capabilities on the job, further their education and build successful careers.
No matter an individual’s aspirations, earning a high school diploma 
or GED is a critical step in the right direction. In the U.S., KFC, Pizza Hut 
and Taco Bell all offer free programs to help employees earn their 
GEDs. For example, the KFC Foundation’s Rise with GEDWorks™, in 
partnership with the GED Testing Service, matches employees with a 
personal adviser to answer questions and help them prepare for the 
exam. All employees at participating KFC restaurants in the U.S. are 
eligible to enroll in the program.
KFC U.K. and Ireland creates career paths for restaurant teams and 
offers a range of training and accredited qualifications, including 
apprenticeships in hospitality management and a three-year bachelor's 
degree for employees. These programs are fully paid for, with no cost to 
the employee. To date, nearly 900 employees have participated in the 
hospitality management programs, and more than 100 employees 
have participated in the Business Management Degree Program, with 
27 graduating in the first two cohorts. 40 million
Working U.S. adults lack a  
high school diploma
94%
of KFC U.S. restaurants participate  
in the KFC Foundation’s  
education programs 
650
KFC U.S. restaurant  
employees enrolledOpportunities for  
Restaurant Employees
48
PEOPLE > TALENT DEVELOPMENT
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTeam members in the U.S. can receive scholarships through a variety 
of sources, such as Taco Bell Foundation’s Live Más Scholarship, created 
for innovators, creators and dreamers — students whose passions lie 
outside the conventional academic or athletic categories. The Taco 
Bell Foundation set a bold goal of donating $10 million in Live Más 
Scholarships by 2022.
The REACH Educational Grant Program helps KFC employees pursue 
their dreams of going to college. Employees can receive up to $3,000 
to help them attend a two-year or four-year college, trade or vocational 
school, or graduate degree program. Beginning in 2016, all employees 
at participating KFC U.S. restaurants were eligible to apply.  
Another signature educational investment is the Andy Pearson 
Scholarship, established in honor of Yum!'s founding chairman. Since the 
inception of the scholarship in 2003, more than $6.7 million has been 
awarded to more than 3,000 scholarship recipients across the U.S. In 
2017, 96 employees or their eligible family members received a total 
of $212,000 in scholarships, with 90 percent being awarded to field 
and restaurant employees. 
A number of new education programs allow team members to turn their 
on-the-job restaurant training into college credit, giving employees even 
more opportunities to succeed. Pizza Hut’s Life Unboxed EDU is offered 
to all U.S. corporate and franchisee employees and immediate family members. It allows participants to apply their team member training 
courses as credits toward their chosen degree program at Excelsior 
College®, a fully accredited, private, nonprofit college with more than  
40 degrees at the graduate and undergraduate levels. Undergraduate 
students can save more than 50 percent on tuition, while master’s 
degree earners can save 15 percent.  
Through Taco Bell’s partnership with Guild Education, all Taco Bell 
corporate and franchise employees have access to coaches, discounts to 
Guild's education partners, as well as academic and financial aid. This 
includes a network of 80 online nonprofit universities and learning 
providers, offering bachelor’s and master’s degrees, high school completion 
and English-as-a-second-language programs, as well as a wide selection 
of certificates. Taco Bell corporate employees, along with employees  
of participating franchisees, also have access to up to $5,250 per 
calendar year in tuition assistance. All employees can receive credit for 
their restaurant training, which could add up to an additional $5,000  
in savings. Evidence suggests that these programs not only strengthen 
resumes, they also make for satisfied employees who want to stay at 
Yum! restaurants. 
98%
34%of employees enrolled in 
Guild stayed at Taco Bell 
more than six months
increase over employees 
not enrolledScholarships &  
Academic Support
When restaurant employees are ready to pursue 
higher education, Yum! Brands is there to help.
TACO BELL REINFORCES LEADERSHIP IN 
EMPLOYEE EDUCATION
In 2016, Taco Bell officially launched Start with Us, 
Stay with Us, a platform and mentality to set Taco Bell 
apart as a category of one through its education and 
career-building programs. Whether employees stay for 
a year or stay for life, Taco Bell has made it a priority to 
offer benefits and programs that create innovators and  
leaders for our communities inside and outside of its 
restaurants. The platform includes the full spectrum 
of opportunities that Taco Bell offers, including Live 
Más Scholarships for employees and customers, GED 
certification program and partnership programs with 
Guild Education. The platform supports Taco Bell’s 
goal of attracting and retaining top talent as it creates 
thousands of new jobs across the U.S.
49
PEOPLE > TALENT DEVELOPMENT
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe encourage people to move through the organization to different brands 
and geographies and provide responsibilities that broaden employees' 
leadership capabilities. Experience has shown us that this approach is 
the fastest and most effective way to help our people develop. 
Our performance management process, the Building People Capability 
(BPC) cycle, is designed to grow, develop and reward employees for their 
contributions. It has a strong focus on mentorship, including year-round 
coaching through one-on-one discussions between coaches and employees, 
plus specific times of the year when employees and coaches work 
together to set short- and long-term goals, create individual development 
plans and discuss performance results. Beyond guidance from their 
coaches, employees receive feedback from peers, direct reports and 
even customers through surveys and other methods. 
There are also core educational programs and development opportunities 
in which employees are encouraged to participate. Companywide 
programs include Achieving Breakthrough Results, a course taught 
globally since 2008. The experience provides employees with tools and 
concepts aimed at high performance. It incorporates personal stories 
from senior leaders and is designed to help learners be intentional 
about their actions, use breakthrough thinking tools to take bold action 
to achieve results. Another program, Leadership Accel, focuses on developing mid-level 
talent for future leadership roles. Lessons include how to align and 
engage others around a clear agenda, build other leaders, strategically 
influence the broader business and enhance critical thinking and 
decision-making skills.
In 2017, we launched Grow Yourself Week, a personal and professional 
development program for corporate employees based in Louisville, Ky. 
The spring and fall bi-annual programs offered nearly 70 interactive 
courses to hundreds of employees. During the programs, employees 
took advantage of development resources, networked with organizational 
leaders and connected to colleagues with similar interests and goals. 
Session topics ranged from personal branding and information security 
to strategies for limiting unconscious bias. A number of courses explored 
aspects of personal wellbeing including fitness, CPR, financial wellness, 
cultivating confidence and volunteering and serving on non-profit boards. 
The sessions were such successes that our office in Plano, Texas, followed 
suit. Several international markets are launching similar programs.Yum! takes a personalized approach to developing people and growing their careers. In addition 
to providing robust development plans, programs and learning platforms, we invest in corporate 
employees around the world by giving them meaningful roles and challenging opportunities.
Opportunities for  
Corporate Employees
50
PEOPLE > TALENT DEVELOPMENT
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOne of our core values is to believe in all people, understanding that 
for our brands to remain relevant, we need everyone at the table in all 
aspects of our organization. That’s why we’re working to reflect the diversity 
of the communities in which employees live and work, embracing diversity’s 
potential to help us build brands that people trust and champion. 
Yum! Brands is on a journey to ensure that inclusion and diversity, 
including gender equity, are integrated into all aspects of our business. 
Our goal is to build a culture that attracts, develops and retains diverse 
employees, franchisees and suppliers to drive global growth. Specifically, 
we aim to increase the number of women who hold senior leadership 
roles globally and increase representation of underrepresented minorities 
in our U.S. brands. We are also working to increase the multicultural 
competency of our existing corporate workforce through activities such 
as unconscious bias training and employee engagement through 
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs).DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
Living Our Values 
Having an inclusive and diverse culture is imperative in today’s world. We are a global company with 
diverse employees, customers and franchisees and maintain an unwavering commitment to promoting  
a company culture where all people are valued and respected.
“ At Yum!, diversity and inclusion are part of living and leading our culture, as well as 
key enablers to our success. We apply this cultural mindset to our people, our franchisees 
and our suppliers as we continuously work to reflect our ever-changing communities, 
customers and investors.”
JAMES FRIPP  — Yum! Chief Diversity & Inclusion OfficerLEADING INCLUSION FOR TODAY & TOMORROW (LIFT2)
Oversight for diversity and inclusion at Yum! is managed at the highest 
levels with Leading Inclusion for Today & Tomorrow (LIFT2), a corporate 
diversity council led by CEO Greg Creed. The council meets twice a 
year and includes senior leaders from across Yum!, our brands, key 
franchisees and suppliers. LIFT2’s key objectives include:
 §Demonstrating high-level commitment to diversity and inclusion
 §Sharing diversity and inclusion best practices inside and outside  
our industry
 §Identifying issues and opportunities through honest and robust dialogue
 §Assisting with stakeholder engagement
 §Promoting, protecting and supporting our people and brands
51
PEOPLE > DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTEmployee  
Resource Groups
Yum!’s ERGs play a key role in driving a culture of diversity by providing 
networking, mentoring, educational workshops and leadership development 
opportunities across our system and the communities in which we do 
business. While each ERG has a specific focus area, all groups are open 
to all employees. ERGs vary by location, but examples include: 
 §Yum! Era:  Yum!’s multi-cultural ERG advocates for inclusion in the 
workplace by providing cultural awareness education, connecting 
members with leadership, sharing customer insights and growing 
talent and leaders within the company. 
 §g2: g2 develops and connects young professionals throughout the 
Yum! family and the community.
 §Women in Networking (WIN):  WIN members build community, 
leverage cross-functional knowledge, and identify and address 
barriers to growth. Quarterly events provide opportunities for 
development and learning.
 §Yum! Pride Network (YPN):  YPN serves to engage and support lesbian, 
gay, bisexual, transgender and queer or questioning employees by 
communicating with employees, organizing events for members and 
attracting LGBTQ talent.
We engage with these groups in innovative ways. For example, Era 
members form focus groups to provide feedback on brands’ marketing 
materials. Their wide-ranging perspectives allow us to better connect 
with our customer base and avoid potential insensitivities. G2 has 
participated in think tanks for KFC U.S, dividing into teams and pitching 
potential new products to KFC U.S. senior leadership, who then explored 
opportunities to bring the concepts to life.Partnerships & 
Recognition
Yum! Brands is committed to greater inclusion and diversity for all people 
and is a place where differences are sought out and celebrated. That’s why 
CEO Greg Creed signed onto the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, a 
coalition of company CEOs committed to creating workplaces that not only 
have diverse representation, but are also places where employees are 
comfortable sharing their experiences and perspectives with one another.
We also established a target to advance more women into leadership and 
achieve gender parity in senior roles globally by 2030. Today, females 
account for 52 percent of our full-time and 58 percent of our part-time 
employees out of our approximately 60,000-member global workforce. 
This commitment aligns with the Paradigm for Parity coalition, a 
movement of Fortune 500 CEOs, senior business leaders and academics 
who are committed to achieving a new norm in corporate leadership: one 
in which women and men have equal power, status and opportunity. 
Additionally, we're proud to lead our industry in creating opportunities 
for women at all levels of our business. 
More than 20 years ago, Yum! became a founding member of the 
Women’s Foodservice Forum® (WFF), the industry’s leading organization 
to advance female talent. Yum! Chief Transformation & People Officer 
Tracy Skeans serves on WFF’s Board of Directors, and Yum! team members 
attend WFF’s Annual Leadership Development Conference. Other 
organizations in which Yum! has taken an active role include: 
 §100,000 Opportunities Initiative
 §Bloomberg Gender Equality Index 
 §The Consortium for Graduate Study in Management 
 §Human Rights Campaign® Corporate Equality Index
 §International Franchise Association 
 §Multicultural Foodservice & Hospitality Alliance
 §National Black MBA Association®
 §Prospanica®
Based on our current employment statistics, policies, external  
community support and engagement and product offerings,  
Yum! was named to the 2018 Bloomberg Gender Equality Index. 
52
PEOPLE > DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFranchise Diversity
Yum! is dedicated to recruiting minority franchisees and is actively 
engaged in programs that support minority franchisee development, 
like the Latino Franchisee Symposium, a cross-industry franchisee 
recruiting event that we've hosted since 2015, bringing together more 
than 20 organizations. Since we began sponsoring the event three years 
ago, we’ve added nearly 50 Hispanic-owned restaurants to our system.
We helped develop and launch the International Franchise Association’s 
MinorityFran Program, an initiative that provides a one-stop point of 
access for minority prospects who are exploring franchise opportunities. 
The program is a partnership with the National Urban League, UnidosUS, 
the Association of Small Business Development Centers and the U.S. 
Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce. 
Yum! has also established a minority lending assistance program focused 
on aiding qualified prospective ethnic minority franchisees, with a 
particular emphasis on African American and Latino individuals, in their 
efforts to enter the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell systems.Supplier Diversity
In partnership with our exclusive supply chain management organization, 
Restaurant Supply Chain Solutions, Yum! Brands has built a leading 
corporate supplier diversity program. We actively seek qualified diverse 
suppliers for all possible product and service needs and encourage our 
majority-owned suppliers to use diverse suppliers, subcontractors and 
distribution services.
Yum! welcomes certified diverse suppliers of the following designations: 
 §Minority-Owned Business Enterprise 
 §Woman-Owned Business Enterprise 
 §Lesbian-, Gay-, Bisexual-, Transgender- and/or Queer-Owned  
Business Enterprise 
 §Business Enterprise Owned by People with Disabilities
 §Veteran-Owned Business Enterprise 
 §Disabled Veteran-Owned Business Enterprise 
 §Small Business Administration [8(a), SDB, HUBZone]
400th restaurant opening in Indonesia
53
PEOPLE > DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTCOMMUNITY & PHILANTHROPY
Making the World Better
Yum!, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell partner with employees and franchisees to unlock the potential of communities 
where employees work and live. We believe in giving back by sharing our time, talents and money.
Yum!’s major philanthropic focus areas — hunger relief, 
literacy and youth education — are united by a common 
thread of unlocking potential in all people. We recognize 
that when individuals’ basic needs are met, they can 
better achieve their goals and contribute to their 
communities — creating a continuous cycle of good.
54
PEOPLE > COMMUNITY & PHILANTHROPY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTSince 1992, the Yum! system contributed more than 180 million pounds 
of food to more than 3,000 nonprofit organizations — a fair market value 
of more than $1 billion. 
Instead of throwing away surplus food that is safe to eat, the Harvest 
program allows us to donate it to local hunger relief organizations in 
countries around the world. This delivers a triple benefit: Food stays out 
of landfills and prevents environmental impacts, thus reducing wasted 
resources, nonprofits benefit from the donations and our restaurants 
give back to local communities. In addition to our work with the Harvest 
program, and as part of our larger efforts to reduce food waste, Yum! 
also partners with FWRA and the ReFed advisory council.
Pizza Hut has partnered with the Harvest program continuously since 1992 
and KFC began participating in 1999. In 2017, Pizza Hut reached a milestone 
of 100 million pounds of food donated to nonprofits in the communities it 
served. Harvest continues to add participating KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants 
and expand to new geographies, now in 17 countries and growing. As 
Harvest grows, we work with countries to ensure Good Samaritan laws 
are in place that provide basic legal protection for people and organizations 
to assist others. These laws help maximize the number of restaurants 
that can participate, ensuring more food is available to those in need.Franchisee participation in Harvest is optional, and many have embraced 
the chance to limit waste and help their neighbors. Yum! encourages 
participation by sharing informational materials about Harvest and 
making it easy for franchisees to request additional support from our 
partners. One KFC franchisee who began participating in the Harvest 
program found that it not only strengthened their connections with the 
local community, but also simplified end-of-night operational routines. 
In three years across 29 participating restaurants, the franchisee provided 
more than 83,000 meals to people who would have otherwise gone 
hungry. The need to provide hunger relief is universal and the Harvest 
program is growing. 
Business units in other parts of the world are finding other ways to make a 
difference. For example, KFC South Africa restaurants have a unique menu 
item: Add Hope. For just 2 South African Rand (approximately $.17 USD), 
customers can “add hope” to their orders. This contribution, along with 
donations from the KFC Foundation, goes to feed a child through one of 
138 charities, feeding 120,000 children every day. Add Hope has raised 
387 million Rand ($32 million USD) since 2009. In 2017, the program 
received a record high of 1.2 million Rand (nearly $90,000 USD) in 
donations in a single week. The milestone came after a month-long 
campaign to raise awareness about International World Hunger Day. 
Add Hope has spread to other countries where KFC operates. KFC India, 
which began taking part in the program in 2016, feeds more than 10,000 
children daily and has pledged to provide 20 million meals by 2020.Yum!’s in the business of feeding people, so it makes sense that hunger relief is one of our key focus 
areas when it comes to supporting communities. The most visible way we do this is through the 
Harvest program, the world's first prepared food donation program.Hunger Relief
Feeding People, Not Landfills
Learn how Harvest  benefits the 
environment.
HARVEST
KFC franchisee Jason Zakaras 
recently began participating in 
the Harvest program. See how 
the program is transforming his 
restaurants’ relationships with the 
community — and his employees.ADD HOPE
For Sinanziwe Ndlovu, losing 
her mother almost meant losing 
the chance to earn an education. 
Then, KFC added hope.
Watch video Watch video
55
PEOPLE > COMMUNITY & PHILANTHROPY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPizza Hut U.S. has been fostering a love of reading for more than 30 years 
through the BOOK IT! program. Since 1984, one in five Americans has 
participated in the free literacy program for schools. BOOK IT!, which 
runs from October through March of each school year, allows teachers to 
set monthly reading goals for their students. Students who meet their 
monthly goal are rewarded with a certificate for a free, one-topping 
Personal Pan Pizza and reading journal from Pizza Hut. 
The basics of the program have stayed consistent for more than a 
generation, but BOOK IT! is getting an upgrade with innovative digital 
features that will be available to teachers and parents beginning in the 
2018 – 2019 school year. A streamlined enrollment process and interactive 
dashboard will make it easier for teachers and parents to monitor children’s 
reading progress and celebrate their success with digital award certificates. BOOK IT! reached 14 million kids in 620,000 classrooms in 2017, with 
plans to expand to 1 million classrooms by 2020. It’s a program with 
proven results: According to a recent study, former BOOK IT! participants 
are more likely to hold advanced degrees and earn higher wages than 
the general population. Most importantly, adults who went through the 
program as children are more likely to establish regular reading routines 
with their own kids. 
While BOOK IT! has had widespread success, there are more opportunities 
to promote literacy in the U.S. and around the world. In 2016, Pizza Hut 
announced a commitment to expand on BOOK IT! with a new social 
impact campaign known as Pizza Hut: The Literacy Project. Through this 
effort, Pizza Hut has partnered with First Book to empower teachers with 
greater resources. 
Pizza Hut restaurants now fundraise to support this effort. Money raised 
provides teachers with credits to the First Book Marketplace, which they 
can use to purchase books and other educational resources at deeply 
discounted rates. In the first year of the campaign, The Literacy Project 
reached 15.9 million people and distributed more than 275,000 books 
and educational resources in the U.S., Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica and 
South Africa. Additional countries and locations will be added throughout 
the campaign, with the goal of reaching 100 million people over 10 years.Yum! believes that education is the key to unlocking a person's full potential and 
recognizes that educational success is rooted in childhood reading skills.Literacy
The Power of a Book
$3
$5
$10Buys a new book
Provides school supplies
Purchases a backpack of booksCustomer Donations Make a Difference
THE LITERACY PROJECT
Learn more about how Pizza Hut: 
The Literacy Project is unlocking 
potential through a love of reading.
Watch video
56
PEOPLE > COMMUNITY & PHILANTHROPY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTYum! Brands employs large numbers of teens and young adults in our 
restaurants, giving us both a unique understanding of and opportunity 
to address the needs of young people. Through our youth education efforts, 
we aim to equip youth with the resources to pursue their educational and 
professional aspirations. 
Youth education is the Taco Bell Foundation’s singular focus. Its hallmark 
program is the Live Más Scholarship, established in 2015. The program 
is designed to support young innovators, creators and dreamers — 
students with passion and drive who may not qualify for conventional 
academic or athletic scholarships. Students apply for the scholarship by 
submitting short videos telling the story of their life’s passions and 
chosen applicants receive funding ranging from $5,000 to $25,000  
to pursue their education. 
Both Taco Bell restaurant employees and customers are eligible to apply, 
and the Taco Bell Foundation recently added a renewal program to allow 
students to reapply for funding to further their education. The Live Más 
Scholarship not only helps fund educational dreams, but also creates 
practical mentoring opportunities outside the classroom. Scholarship 
recipients have learned from some of the best in their aspired industries, working behind the scenes with Taco Bell’s renowned social media and 
marketing teams at the MTV Video Music Awards, NBA All-Star Skills 
Challenge and Feed the Beat™ showcase in Austin, Texas. 
In 2017, Taco Bell enlisted the first class of Live Más Scholarship 
recipients to help engage and support the next. Through the Feed a 
Dream promotion, for a limited time, every Doritos® Locos Taco sold  
in Taco Bell restaurants raised 10 cents for the Live Más Scholarship.  
To develop the campaign, scholarship recipients took part in a creative 
workshop in Chicago, where they worked side-by-side with veteran 
advertising and marketing creatives to formulate the campaign’s ad 
concept and script. Students were involved in the filming of the 
commercial in California, performing key jobs ranging from behind-
the-scenes strategizing and set development to starring roles. They also 
created three taco packaging designs for use during the promotion. 
This was more than a fundraiser, just as the Live Más Scholarship is 
more than financial support. By connecting recipients to a community 
of like-minded peers and professionals and providing real-world 
opportunities to practice their craft, Taco Bell and the Taco Bell Foundation 
are giving students and employees the chance to turn their dream 
jobs into reality.Today’s youth are tomorrow’s business, political and community leaders — 
and the future leaders of our company.Y outh Education
Helping Young People Achieve More
$10 million  
in Live M ás Scholarship funding  
by 2022
$1-2 million  
per year
440 Recipients  
2016-2017The Live Más Scholarship
LIVE M ÁS SCHOLARSHIP
See how the commercial was 
developed, directed and acted  
by recipients of Taco Bell’s  
Live Más Scholarship.
Watch video
57
PEOPLE > COMMUNITY & PHILANTHROPY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTaco Bell Foundation’s other activities have a similar focus of helping 
young people to pursue career and educational pathways through 
financial literacy resources, mentorship and job skill experiences, college 
readiness programming, creative and social innovation experiences and 
direct financial assistance. Grantees may apply for funding by invitation 
only. The Foundation’s current partners include Boys & Girls Clubs of 
America, City Year AmeriCorps, Junior Achievement® and Moneythink.
$5 million  
grants to youth-serving  
organizations in 2017
200,000  
young people impactedThe Taco Bell Foundation
JUMP-STARTING CAREERS AT PIZZA HUT
Pizza Hut, along with Taco Bell, is a member of the 
100,000 Opportunities Initiative, which engages young 
people ages 16 to 24 who face systemic barriers to jobs 
and education in apprenticeships, internships, training 
programs and employment. Employers in the coalition 
agree to share best practices with others and learn 
from leading experts and research how to connect  
 with this untapped population. 
In line with this commitment, Pizza Hut recently hosted 
a group of high school juniors from Uplift Education for 
a career immersion day at its corporate headquarters. 
Employees across Pizza Hut guided scholars through 
various parts of the business, where they learned 
firsthand about the wide array of careers within the 
company. The students took part in career panels, an 
office tour, a pizza lunch and hands-on sessions with 
Pizza Hut employees. 
Taco Bell team member Maurico Bejar wins a $10,000 Live Mas Scholarship from the 
Taco Bell Foundation.
58
PEOPLE > COMMUNITY & PHILANTHROPY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTIn line with the transformation of our company, we have refreshed the 
Yum! Brands Foundation’s strategy to support what matters to employees. 
All Yum! Brands corporate employees in the U.S. can now help their 
favorite causes through:
 §Matching Gifts:  Yum! matches employee gifts, dollar-for-dollar, to 
approved nonprofit organizations up to $1,000. 
 §Paid-time-off (PTO):  Employees may take up to two days of PTO 
to volunteer for the cause of their choosing. This does not include 
group volunteer activities organized by Yum! Brands, which do not 
require PTO.
 §Support for Board Participation:  Employees who give their time, 
talent and money to serve on nonprofit boards can have their financial 
contributions matched depending on a number of criteria. 
The Yum! Foundation also prioritizes support for the community 
surrounding our global headquarters in Louisville, Ky. Yum! has 
allocated $600,000 in grant donations for each of three community 
partners: Dare to Care, Metro United Way™ and Fund for the Arts.  
An important giving priority — which by its nature must be flexible and 
scalable — is expanding our capacity to support communities affected by 
natural disasters. In the spirit of giving back, Yum! Brands, our employees, 
franchisees and external partners have a tradition of assisting with national and global disaster relief efforts, providing hot meals, financial 
assistance, in-kind donations and time as needed. As disasters increase 
in frequency and severity worldwide, we are working with our brands to 
develop an improved response framework to allow for quick mobilization 
when tragedy strikes.Our employees are as diverse as our businesses and have their own 
causes and projects that matter to them.Employee Giving
Supporting Our Local Communities
The Yum! Foundation
$350,000
in employee gifts matched
Nearly  $300,000
provided for U.S. hurricane  
relief in 2017THE KFC FAMILY FUND HELPS  
IN TIMES OF NEED
The KFC Family Fund is a source of support for employees 
at participating KFC U.S. restaurants who have been 
directly impacted by a natural disaster, serious illness or 
other hardship. While money can’t eliminate the sorrow, 
it can hopefully lessen some of the added stress that often 
accompanies a crisis. For example, when torrential rains 
led to major flooding in West Virginia in 2016, KFC team 
member Donald Blake received funding to help repair 
his home. Since the KFC Family Fund’s launch in 2015, 
more than 350 KFC employees and their families have 
received more than $272,000 in temporary financial relief.
59
PEOPLE > COMMUNITY & PHILANTHROPY
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWe understand that our people will be at their best only when they and their families are healthy 
and secure, and when they have the freedom to enjoy all of the roles that they play, whether they 
are parents, caregivers or community volunteers.
Yum! and our franchisees offer restaurant employees a range of medical benefits, child care 
discounts, educational scholarships and tuition reimbursement, and gym discounts, as well as 
training and development opportunities.
Our corporate above-restaurant employees benefit from a total rewards package that includes 
wellness programs, flexible working hours, a generous 401(k) match and more. Highlights include:Yum! appreciates the work our employees do every day and is 
committed to building a workplace where our people can thrive.EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Championing Wellness in Every Form 
Wellness
 §On-site health and fitness center
 §Fitness classes
 §Dedicated personal trainers
 §Weight management and  
nutrition programs
 §Health assessments and screenings 
 §Company-sponsored recreational sports
 §On-campus walking trail and basketball, 
volleyball and tennis courts
 §On-site massage therapy
 §Walking challengesHealth Care & Insurance
 §Medical, dental and vision insurance
 §Prescription drug coverage
 §Life insurance
 §Accident and disability insurance
 §Flexible spending accounts 
 §On-demand remote medical care 
 §Autism support services as part of  
the medical plan Work/Life Benefits
 §Bonus and incentive programs
 §401(k) with a 6 percent matching 
contribution from Yum! Brands
 §Paid vacation
 §Flexible hours
 §Parental time-off
 §Onsite child care
 §Legal services
 §Adoption assistance program
 §Onsite concierge
 §Identity fraud protection
60
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPEOPLE > EMPLOYEE BENEFITSOur Global Code of Conduct is more than a document — it is the foundation 
for the way we conduct ourselves and do business throughout the world. 
It calls for the highest standards of ethical behavior from our Board 
members and all employees of Yum! Brands and its subsidiaries. Every 
year, our Board of Directors and Yum!’s 4,000 most senior employees 
must certify in writing that they have read and understand the Code 
and complete a conflicts of interest questionnaire. The Code is available 
online in seven languages and was most recently updated in 2018 to 
reflect our company’s transformation. Included as a supplement to our 
Global Code of Conduct is our International Anti-Corruption Policy. This 
policy applies to all directors, officers and employees of Yum!, as well as 
to our international agents, consultants, joint venture partners and any 
other third-party representatives acting on our behalf. 
Beyond regularly reviewing the Global Code of Conduct, all company-
owned restaurant employees are required to participate in annual 
compliance training. Different topics are covered each year, ranging 
from anticorruption to data security. Specific training areas and 
formats vary by brand and market. 
We encourage employees to raise ethical concerns and provide multiple 
channels for them to do so safely and anonymously. An independent 
third party operates an ethics hotline, known as The Network, on our 
behalf. The Network is available 24/7 in more than 120 countries and 
territories. Once a call is received, the third party relays the information 
to Yum! management, who review every claim and investigate when 
necessary. The Audit Committee of our Board has established additional 
procedures for complaints and concerns of employees regarding 
accounting and auditing matters, including the confidential or anonymous 
submission of such complaints or concerns. More details on these 
procedures can be found here . Yum! has a strict policy against retaliation 
for good-faith reports, regardless of their ultimate veracity. When it comes to interacting with one another, employees are expected to 
demonstrate mutual respect in all professional relationships. Sexual, racial, 
ethnic and religious or any other type of harassment, has no place in the 
Yum! Brands work environment. Harassment includes conduct such as 
slurs, jokes, intimidation or any other verbal or physical attack upon a 
person because of gender, sexual orientation, race, religion, national 
origin or other legally protected status of a person.
It is Yum!’s policy to deal fairly with employees; provide equal opportunity 
for all in recruiting, hiring, developing, promoting and compensating 
without regard to race, religion, color, age, gender, disability, genetic 
information, military or veteran status, sexual orientation, gender 
identity and/or expression, citizenship, national origin or other legally 
protected status; maintain a professional, safe and discrimination-free 
work environment; recognize and compensate employees based on 
their performance; and provide a competitive array of benefits.
Yum! maintains a work environment that respects and supports human 
rights for all of our employees around the world. This issue, along with 
Labor Practices, was identified as among our most material issues in our 
survey of stakeholders. Basic tenets of our human rights policy include:
 §We do not employ underage children or forced laborers.
 §We prohibit physical punishment and abuse. 
 §We respect the right of all employees to associate or not to associate 
with any group as permitted by applicable laws and regulations. 
 §We require compliance with all local labor laws in every market 
where we operate. 
 §We promote, protect and help to ensure the equal rights of all persons, 
including minorities, women and those with disabilities. 
 §We partner with stakeholders to collect input and help guide our 
human rights efforts.ETHICS & HUMAN RIGHTS
Doing What’s Right 
Yum! Brands’ success is built on the integrity and high ethical standards of our employees, a fact confirmed 
by our stakeholders in our materiality assessment. Our ethics and compliance program, based on our 
Global Code of Conduct , demands the  highest ethical standards in all of our operations around the globe.
61
PEOPLE > ETHICS & HUMAN RIGHTS
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTYum! holds the same expectations of ethical, legal and socially responsible 
business practices for its suppliers. Suppliers must abide by all applicable 
laws, codes or regulations regarding wages and benefits, worker’s 
compensation, working hours, equal opportunity, worker and product safety, 
and conflict minerals policies. Yum! Brands also expects that suppliers will 
conform their practices to the published standards for their industry. 
Beyond these minimum standards, our Supplier Code of Conduct sets forth 
our expectations for suppliers and subcontractors. Topics covered include: 
 §Working Hours & Conditions:  Suppliers are expected to provide 
their employees with safe and healthy working conditions and 
reasonable daily and weekly work schedules. 
 §Nondiscrimination:  Suppliers should follow all laws prohibiting 
discrimination in hiring and employment on the grounds of race, 
color, religion, sex, age, physical disability, national origin, creed or 
any other basis prohibited by law.
 §Child Labor:  Suppliers should not use workers under the legal 
age for employment. In no event should suppliers use employees 
younger than 14 years of age. §Forced and Indentured Labor:  No supplier should perform work 
or produce goods for Yum! Brands using labor under any form 
of indentured servitude, nor should threats of violence, physical 
punishment, confinement or other form of physical, sexual, 
psychological or verbal harassment or abuse be used as a method of 
discipline or control.
 §Notification to Employees:  To the extent required by law, suppliers 
should establish companywide policies implementing the standards 
outlined in the Supplier Code of Conduct and post notices of those 
policies for their employees. The notices should be in all languages 
necessary to fully communicate the policy to employees.
We expect suppliers to review such requirements internally to verify 
compliance with the Code. In addition, we reserve the right to conduct 
unannounced assessments, audits and inspections of supplier facilities. 
To manage performance, audits of key suppliers are conducted annually, 
which include a review of the supplier’s internal processes and site visits, 
as needed. Violations may lead to disciplinary action, including termination 
of the supplier relationship for repeated violations or noncompliance.
62
PEOPLE > ETHICS & HUMAN RIGHTS
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFORWARD-LOOKING  
STATEMENTS
This report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the 
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend all forward-looking 
statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements 
generally can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to 
historical or current facts and by the use of forward-looking words such 
as “expect,” “expectation,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “may,” “could,” “intend,” 
“belief,” “plan,” “estimate,” “target,” “predict,” “likely,” “seek,” “project,” 
“model,” “ongoing,” “will,” “should,” “forecast,” “outlook,” “new store 
opening goals” or similar terminology. These statements are based on 
and reflect our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and/or 
projections, our perception of historical trends and current conditions, 
as well as other factors that we believe are appropriate and reasonable under the circumstances. Forward-looking statements are neither 
predictions nor guarantees of future events, circumstances or performance 
and are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties 
and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially 
from those indicated by those statements. There can be no assurance that 
our expectations, estimates, assumptions and/or projections, including 
with respect to the future earnings and performance or capital structure 
of Yum! Brands, will prove to be correct or that any of our expectations, 
estimates or projections will be achieved.
The forward-looking statements included in this report are only made 
as of the date of this report, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly 
update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events 
or circumstances.
63
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTREPORTING > FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSGRI INDE X
Disclosu re 
NumberDisclosu re Title 2018 Respons e
GENERAL DISCLOSUR ES
102-1 Name of the organi zation
102-2 Activities , brands , product s and servic es
102-3 Location of headquarter s
102-4 Location of ope rations
102-5 Owner ship and legal  form Publicly traded  compan y
102-6 Markets serve d
102-7 Scale  of the organiz ation
102-8 Information  on em ployees and  other workers People : Diversity & Inclusion, pgs. 51-53
102-9 Suppl y chai n Plane t: Suppl y Chain, pgs. 38-40 
Yum! Brands 2017  Annual  Repor t, Form 10-K, pg. 4
102-10
suppl y chainYum! Brands 2017  Annual  Repor t, Form 10-K, pg. 2
102-11 Precaut ionar y Principle or app roach Yum! does not addr ess the pr ecautionary appr oach,  but we do as sess risk s acr oss our or ganization.  
Yum! Brands 2017  Annual  Repor t, Form 10-K, pgs. 5-13
102-12 External initiatives CDP, GRI, DJSI, UNSDG s, The U.S. Round table  for Sustainable  Beef (USRSB) , The Round table  for 
Sustainable  Palm Oil (RSPO ), Women’s Foodservice Forum (WFF), Mul ti-Cultural Foodservice & 
Hospitality Allian ce, Consortium  for Gradua te Studies  in Managem ent, Carbon  Statement , The 
Paper  Cup  Recovery and Recycling Group (PCRRG), U.S. Green Building  Council’s Leader ship in 
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), Food Waste Reduction Allian ce (FWRA), World Resources 
Institute (WRI) Aquedu ct tool, One  Health, Interna tional  Labour  Organi zation (ILO)
Stakeholder  Engage ment, pgs. 10-11
102-13 Membership  of association s Stakeholder  Engage ment, pgs. 10-11
Strateg y
102-14 Statement from senior  decision-maker CEO Message, pg. 5
Ethics and Integr ity
102-16 Values , principles , standa rds and norm s of 
behavio r People : Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62 
Yum! Worldwide C ode of  Conduct
Governance
102-18 Governance st ructure Corpo rate Governan ce, pg. 8The 2017 Global Citizenship & Sustainability R eport is pr epar ed accor ding to Global R eporting Initiatives (GRI) S tandar ds Core option. GRI is  
the most widely r ecognized fr amework for sustainability r eporting.
64REPORTING > GRI INDEX
2017  GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPO RTCorporate Proﬁle, pg. 3
Corporate Proﬁle, pg. 3
Corporate Proﬁle, pg. 3
Corporate Proﬁle, pg. 4
Corporate Proﬁle, pg. 4
Corporate Proﬁle, pg. 4
Signiﬁcant changes to the organization and itsOrganizational ProﬁleDisclosure 
Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 10
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 10
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement, pgs. 10-11
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement, pgs. 10-11
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated  
financial statements Yum! Brands 2017 Annual Report, Form 10-K, pg. 2
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Materiality, pgs. 12-13  
About This Report, pg. 14
102-47 List of material topics Materiality, pg. 13
102-48 Restatements of information About This Report, pg. 14
102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report, pg. 14
102-50 Reporting period About This Report, pg. 14
102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report, pg. 14
102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report, pg. 14
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report, pg. 14
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
StandardsAbout This Report, pg. 14
102-55 GRI content index About This Report, pg. 14
102-56 External assurance About This Report, pg. 14
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
GRI 201: Economic Performance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Yum! Brands 2017 Annual Report, Form 10-K
103-2 The management approach and its components Yum! Brands 2017 Annual Report, Form 10-K
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Yum! Brands 2017 Annual Report, Form 10-K
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Yum! Brands 2017 Annual Report, Form 10-K, pg. 17
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and  
opportunities due to climate change2017 Climate Change CDP Response
65
REPORTING > GRI INDEX
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTDisclosure 
Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People: Ethics  & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Ethics  & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Ethics  & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
205-2 Communication and training about  
anti-corruption policies and proceduresPeople: Ethics  & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and  
actions takenThere were no confirmed incidents of corruption during 2017.
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People: Ethics  & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Ethics  & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Ethics  & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 
anti-trust and monopoly practicesNo legal actions were taken for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust or monopoly practices  
during 2017.
GRI 302: Energy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Energy Efficiency, pgs. 31-32
103-2 The management approach and its components Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Energy Efficiency, pgs. 31-32
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Energy Efficiency, pgs. 31-32
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Total Energy Consumption Within the Organization: 1,126,543 MWh
Total Fuel Consumption from Non-Renewable Sources: 435,813 MWh
Total Fuel Consumption from Renewable Sources: 32 MWh
Total Energy Consumption from Non-Renewable Sources: 611,960 MWh
Total Energy Consumption from Renewable Sources: 78,738 MWh
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Planet: Energy Efficiency , pg. 31
GRI 303: Water
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Water Conservation, pgs. 33-35
103-2 The management approach and its components Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Water Conservation, pgs. 33-35
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Water Conservation, pgs. 33-35
303-2 Water sources significantly affected by  
withdrawal of water Planet: Water Conservation, pgs. 33-34
66
REPORTING > GRI INDEX
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTDisclosure 
Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response
GRI 305: Emissions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Energy Efficiency, pgs. 31-32
103-2 The management approach and its components Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Energy Efficiency, pgs. 31-32
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Energy Efficiency, pgs. 31-32
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Energy Efficiency, pg. 31
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Energy Efficiency, pg. 31
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Waste Reduction, pgs. 36-37  
Boundary for Effluents and Waste only includes US operations.
103-2 The management approach and its components Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Waste Reduction, pgs. 36-37
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet: Green Buildings, pg. 30  
Planet: Waste Reduction, pgs. 36-37
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Planet: Waste Reduction, pgs. 36-37
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Planet: Supply Chain, pgs. 38-40
103-2 The management approach and its components Planet: Supply Chain, pgs. 38-40
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet: Supply Chain, pgs. 38-40
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 
chain and actions takenPlanet: Forest Stewardship, pgs. 41-42
GRI 401: Employment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People: Culture & Talent, pgs. 45-46
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Culture & Talent, pgs. 45-46
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Culture & Talent, pgs. 45-46
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 
not provided to temporary or part-time employeesPeople: Employee Benefits, pg. 60
GRI 402: Labor/ Management Relations
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding  
operational changes We require our franchisees to fully comply with applicable national and/or local legal requirements 
for minimum notice periods regarding significant operational changes.
67
REPORTING > GRI INDEX
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTDisclosure 
Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
403-1 Workers representation in formal joint  
management–worker health and safety committeesThere are no formal joint manager-worker health and safety committees in place.
GRI 404: Training and Education
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People: Talent Development, pgs. 47-50
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Talent Development, pgs. 47-50
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Talent Development, pgs. 47-50
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programsPeople: Talent Development, pgs. 47-50
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPeople: Diversity & Inclusion, pgs. 51-53
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Diversity & Inclusion, pgs. 51-53
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Diversity & Inclusion, pgs. 51-53
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Gender  
Female Male
Board of Directors 27% 73%
Global Management 41% 59%
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of  
women to menWe have a strong commitment to ensuring we do not have pay discrepancies based on gender 
and ethnicity and run statistical multi-variate regression analysis to evaluate potential gender and 
ethnicity disparities each year. Below is a table that shows the 2017 average levels of compensation 
between males and females in the U.S., which represents a bit less than half our global population. 
According to our statistical analyses, when variables used in making pay decisions are factored, we 
do not have any statistically significant variances in pay for gender or ethnicity.
Female Male
Executives 52% 48%
Management: Above-Restaurant 46% 54%
Management: Restaurant 51% 49%
Non-Management Above-Restaurant 52% 48%
Non-Management  Restaurant 53% 47%
68
REPORTING > GRI INDEX
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTDisclosure 
Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining 
may be at riskPeople: Ethics & Human Rights, pg. 62
GRI 408: Child Labor
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of child laborPeople: Ethics & Human Rights, pg. 62
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory laborPeople: Ethics & Human Rights, pg. 62
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies  
or proceduresPeople: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-2 The management approach and its components People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People: Ethics & Human Rights, pgs. 61-62
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using  
social criteriaPeople: Ethics & Human Rights, pg. 62
69
REPORTING > GRI INDEX
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTDisclosure 
Number Disclosure Title 2018 Response
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Food: Food Safety, pgs. 17-21  
Food: Choice & Nutrition, pgs. 22-25
103-2 The management approach and its components Food: Food Safety, pgs. 17-21  
Food: Choice & Nutrition, pgs. 22-25
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Food: Food Safety, pgs. 17-21  
Food: Choice & Nutrition, pgs. 22-25
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 
product and service categoriesFood: Choice & Nutrition, pgs. 22-25
70
REPORTING > GRI INDEX
2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT