PURPOSE THAT  
FEEDS THE FUTURE
2020 Global Citizenship & Sustainability ReportTABLE OF 
CONTENTS
CITIZENSHIP 
Corporate Governance
Board Diversity
ESG Strategy & LeadershipMateriality
Stakeholder Engagement6
ESG REPORTING
Performance Summary
GRI Index
SASB Index
TCFD Report Executive Summary
About This Report36PEOPLE
People Dashboard
Strengthening Unrivaled Culture & Talent 
Investing in Social Impact: Unlocking 
Opportunity
Brand Community Impact
Yum!'s COVID-19 Response 
Ethics & Human Rights 12 FOOD
Food Dashboard
Food Safety
Balanced Choices
Plant-Based Options22 PLANET
Planet Dashboard
Climate Action
Forest Stewardship
Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction
Animal Welfare28
We’re passionate 
about feeding a future with 
more purpose because it’s 
our responsibility to create 
a Recipe for Good for all.
3ABOUT THE PAPE RUSED FOR THIS REPORT
The cover and interior pages of thisreportwereprinted using FSC-cer tiﬁed paper 
made with 100% Certiﬁed Renewable Ener gy and 100% post-consumer waste.
The inks used in the printing of thisreport contain an aver age of  25%-3 5% 
vegetable oilsfromplant deriva tives,a renewable resour ce.Theyreplace petroleum 
based inks as aneffort to also r educe volatileorganic compounds (VOCs).FPO5
2020 marked a turning point for societies and businesses around the 
world. The impact on Yum!, our restaurants, franchisees and communities 
was no exception. It was a year filled with challenges, but also one that 
clarified our focus on what’s most important, creating an opportunity to 
chart a sustainable future guided by purpose around societal issues our 
stakeholders care about like equality, inclusion and climate change. 
Throughout the pandemic, everyone in the Yum! family has shown that 
they are capable of amazing things. I am incredibly proud of all the work 
that was done on the front lines and behind the scenes to serve our 
customers and communities and keep each other safe, like rolling out new 
safety protocols and contactless delivery programs in record time. 
Just as our employees have taken care of customers and one another, Yum!, 
in turn, is taking care of them. We made our first grants through the Unlocking 
Opportunity Initiative, a $100 million global commitment to support front-
line restaurant teams and community members through equity and inclusion, 
education, and entrepreneurship. At least $6 million of this total will be used 
to advance opportunity in Louisville, Kentucky, hometown of Yum! and KFC. 
We also joined the OneTen coalition, uniting with other U.S. businesses in 
advancing equity and career opportunity for underrepresented people  
of color. 
People is the first pillar in Yum!’s Recipe for Good strategy, but equally 
important are our efforts to deliver goodness for the planet and through 
our food. Yum! recently announced science-based targets to reduce our 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 46% below 2019 levels by 2030. We will 
achieve this by collaborating closely with our brands, franchisees and suppliers 
to source ingredients and operate restaurants with less environmental impact. 
We’re also continuing our work around sustainable packaging and waste 
reduction as part of our larger sustainability strategy. 
When it comes to our Food pillar, we’ve never been more focused on food 
safety and delivering trust in every bite. We’re also expanding our investments 
in plant-based and vegetarian options. Through a new strategic partnership 
with Beyond Meat, Inc., our brands will introduce plant-based menu offerings 
to meet surging demand for sustainable options and flexible diets. Within 
our existing menus, we are continually working to improve nutritional profiles 
without compromising on the taste our customers crave. 
We emerged from 2020 primed for sustainable growth, made better and 
more resilient by the challenges we faced throughout the year. I’m confident 
that our Recipe for Growth & Good has all the right ingredients for Yum! to 
succeed and create positive impacts for our people, franchisees, customers 
and communities. 
Thanks for your continued support. A Message From
DAVID GIBBS
David Gibbs
Chief Executive Officer 
Yum! Brands, Inc.
I’m confident that our 
Recipe for Growth & Good 
has all the right ingredients 
for Yum! to succeed and 
create positive impacts for 
our people, franchisees, 
customers and communities.
10 COUNTRIES
Testing plant-based 
cheeses and toppingsRECYCLING  
SAUCE PACKETS
Partnering with 
TerraCycle on hard-to-
recycle materialsROUND UP 
PROGRAM
Feeding people in need 
via customer givingNamed to 2021
BLOOMBERG GENDER-
EQUALITY INDEX
Nearly 
 50%
GHG emissions  
reduction by 2030Achieved 
A- SCORE  
on 2020 CDP Climate, 
Timber, Palm Oil & Water
NET-ZERO
Pledge to be carbon 
neutral by 2050Named to 2020
DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY 
NORTH AMERICA INDEX
$100   
MILLION
Investment to unlock 
opportunity and  
fight inequality  BALANCED
CHOICES
Offering options 
to meet consumer 
preferencesHuman Rights Campaign
SCORE OF 100
2021 Corporate Equality 
IndexESG RANKINGS & RATINGS
KEY YUM! GOALS
2020 HIGHLIGHTS1.5 MILLION
franchise system 
employees4 BRANDS 2K 50K
franchisees restaurants
GREEN BUILDING  
STANDARDS
11 foundational 
requirements for new 
buildings starting in 2021 in 
more than 140 marketsYUM! RECIPE FOR GOOD AT A GLANCE
Provided
$70 MILLION
to help local communitiesDonated
6.67 MILLION POUNDS
of food through our 
Harvest programAvoided the release of
1,286,183 MTCO2e
equivalent to the annual 
emissions of nearly 280,000 
passenger vehicles7
CITIZENSHIP
We Feed the Future
6Evolving our Recipe for Growth & Good
As a global company with more than 50,000  restaurants, at Yum!, we have a 
clear vision for building the world’s most loved, trusted and fastest-growing 
brands in our industry. We’re doing this through our Recipe for Growth — the 
core capabilities upon which we’re building long-term results — and our Global 
Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy, known as our Recipe for Good. The Recipe 
for Good reflects our priorities for social responsibility, risk management 
and sustainable stewardship of our people, food and planet. Our 2020 
Annual Report discusses our joint Recipe for Growth & Good, underscoring 
the importance of collaboration in unlocking the potential of our people, 
franchisees, customers and communities.
At Yum!, we continue to integrate citizenship and sustainability into our 
business processes, including enterprise risk management (ERM). We are 
focused on advancing progress and results in the most critical parts of  
our business:
• Creating a workplace where everyone feels welcomed and valued
• Attracting, developing and retaining the best talent
• Feeding people safely and responding to customers’  
evolving preferences
• Minimizing our climate impact, guiding by science-based targets  
and choosing responsible suppliers
• Operating our restaurants efficiently
• Creating opportunity and tackling inequalities faced by our front-line 
restaurant teams and communitiesWhile all environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics are essential, the 
pandemic heightened our focus on global issues that are also core to Yum!. This 
includes increasing inequities around the globe, the elevated importance of 
social issues impacting our people and the urgent need for action to address 
climate change. These issues align with the ongoing evolution of our strategy, 
which emphasizes People as our primary focus for social responsibility. The 
introduction of Unlocking Opportunity, our new social purpose, aims to fight 
inequality for front-line team members and communities, and further reflects 
our company's long-term commitment to education, entrepreneurship, and 
equity and inclusion.
Relevant,  Easy 
& Distinctive Br ands
Innovate and elevate iconic restaura nt
brands people trust and championBold Re staura nt
Development
Drive mark et and fr anchise 
unit expansion with 
strong economics 
and valueUnmatched 
Oper ating C apabilit y
Recruit and equip the best
restaurant ope rators in 
the world to deliver
great customer
experience sFood
Serve delicious
food people trustPeople
Unlock
opport unity
Planet
Grow 
sustainablyUnlocking opport unity for 
Better collabor ation   •   Bet ter experiences   •  Bet tereconomics •  Bet ter growthPURPOS E
& GOODGOOD GROW TH
Unrivaled Culture  & Talent
Levera ge culture  and people 
capability to fuel bra nd 
performance and 
franchise success
9 8
CITIZENSHIP
Choice  and Nutrition Food Safety
Food Techno logy
and GMO sRespons ible Marketing Climate Impact
Animal Wel fareSustainabl e Sourcing
WaterOper ation al Wast e and Recycl ing Packaging
Commu nity and Ph ilanthropyEquity, Inclusion and Belonging
Employee  Health and SafetyHuman Rights and Labor Pract ices 
Talent Attraction , Engage ment  and Retent ionESG Corp orate Governan ce
Ethics and Compl iance
Tax 
Strat egyLobbying 
and Public Policy
Information  Security and Data Privac yImportanc e to External Stakeholders
Importance to Internal Stakeholders
Food Planet People Govern anceTier /one.lf
Tier /two.lf
Tier /three.lfCorporate Governance
At Yum!, we believe that good corporate governance is a critical factor in 
achieving business success and embrace practices that align with management 
and shareholder interests. As of May 2021, the Yum! board of directors 
consisted of 12 directors, 11 of whom were independent, based on New 
York Stock Exchange rules for director independence. In 2020, the board 
was led by an independent, nonexecutive chairman. Our board believes that 
its independence and oversight of management are effectively maintained 
through a strong independent chairman or lead director and through the 
board’s composition, committee system and policy of having regular executive 
sessions of nonemployee directors. The board has three independent 
committees: 
• Audit Committee
• Management Planning & Development Committee
• Nominating & Governance Committee
Only independent directors serve on the Audit, Management Planning & 
Development and Nominating & Governance Committees in accordance with 
our Corporate Governance Principles. The Board has instituted an annual self-
evaluation process, led by the Nominating & Governance Committee, through 
which directors assess how the board can better contribute to the company. Our 
Audit, Management Planning & Development and Nominating & Governance 
Committees conduct similar self-evaluations.
Board Diversity
A diverse range of experiences and perspectives 
among our directors support the success of the 
board in overseeing our complex, varied global 
businesses. When recruiting new directors, we 
look for leaders from different backgrounds 
who combine a broad spectrum of experience 
and expertise with a reputation for integrity. 
For complete selection criteria and policies, 
please see our Corporate Governance Principles. 
Currently, five of our 12 directors are women, and three are people of color.Materiality
At Yum!, we regularly conduct  materiality assessments, which are designed to 
identify and prioritize our most significant ESG impacts, risks and opportunities 
for our business and stakeholders. In 2021, we worked with a third party to 
conduct a new materiality assessment, using the topic list from Yum!’s last 
materiality assessment as a starting point. We then benchmarked these topics 
against more recent internal and external sources to identify additional relevant 
topics. These topics were grouped into categories to capture broader impacts. 
For example, Climate Impact encompasses energy/energy consumption, climate 
change, renewable energy and emissions. Equity, Inclusion and Belonging and 
Employee Health and Safety, previously part of Talent Attraction, Retention and 
Engagement, are now separate topics. Through this exercise, a final list of  
20 topics was identified, which we segmented into categories aligned with  
Yum!’s sustainability pillars (People, Food and Planet), as well as Governance. 
ESG Strategy & Leadership 
Oversight for ESG issues ultimately resides with the Yum! board of directors. 
The board is briefed at least annually on current issues and focus areas through 
its Audit Committee and is updated on a weekly basis through broader business 
updates. Our cross-brand Global Leadership Team, led by our chief executive 
officer, is regularly engaged with and updated on material topics. 
At the operational level, the chief communications & public affairs officer 
oversees Yum!’s global reputation, assesses and manages ESG risks and shapes 
the Global Citizenship & Sustainability strategy in partnership with the chief 
sustainability officer & vice president of Global Government Affairs and other 
senior leaders who comprise our ESG Council, including:
• Chief Operating Officer & Chief People Officer
• Chief Financial Officer
• Chief Communications & Public Affairs Officer
• Chief Sustainability Officer & Vice President of  
Global Government Affairs
• Chief Strategy Officer
• Chief Food Safety Officer
• Chief Equity & Inclusion Officer
• Chief Legal & Franchise Officer & Corporate Secretary
• Chief Food Innovation Officer
• Chief Development Officer
• Vice President, Supply Chain
The ESG Council plays a key role in championing and governing our overall 
citizenship and sustainability strategy and priorities. We also convene cross-
functional working groups that meet regularly throughout the year and include 
employees from food safety, human resources, supply chain, development, 
sustainability, communications and legal teams at the corporate and brand 
division levels to advance priority-area agendas. This includes an ESG Working 
Group that helps manage ongoing efforts such as our materiality assessment, 
disclosures to sustainability ratings and rankings agencies and our Global 
Citizenship & Sustainability Report.The materiality assessment solicited the input of key internal and external 
stakeholders, including company leaders, investors, franchisees, suppliers, 
NGOs, industry associations and thought leaders. Based on the evidence 
provided through interviews and other source material, we mapped the relative 
priority of topics to Yum! and external stakeholders, as shown in the materiality 
matrix below. 
Topics have been separated into three tiers, represented by the curved lines in 
the matrix. While all topics are important and can impact business success, the 
most important outcome of our assessment was the emergence of five clear 
Tier I topics: Climate Impact; Equity, Inclusion and Belonging; Food Safety; 
Packaging; and Operational Waste and Recycling. Each of these topics was 
judged to be highly important both to Yum! and our stakeholders, and we will 
provide the most robust discussion on these topics in our reporting  
going forward. 
Yum! Materiality Matrix
11
CITIZENSHIPMany workers shared safety concerns related 
to COVID-19, and an interest in greater support 
from employers and the government in the form 
of policies like sick leave, access to healthcare 
and training and education. The results of this 
study will inform our workplace efforts, including 
the development of the Unlocking Opportunity 
Initiative. 
At Yum!, we have also expanded our partnership with WWF. In recent years, we 
conducted a landscape assessment to better understand deforestation risks in 
Brazil and are now in the early stages of our implementation plan. Additionally, 
WWF is serving as a consulting partner on our packaging strategy.
10Stakeholder Engagement
Our key stakeholders include employees, customers, franchisees, shareholders, 
suppliers, NGOs and communities. We follow a process for identifying, 
prioritizing and engaging with stakeholders on a range of issues. To conduct 
our 2021 materiality assessment, our company held interviews with internal 
and external stakeholders to understand their perspectives on key topics. 
Interviewees shared input based on their experience and areas of expertise. 
Through other types of engagement ranging from one-time discussions to 
regular interaction on joint projects and annual surveys, we aim to be as 
inclusive as possible, listening to many points of view from both supportive and 
critical voices.
For example, in the first quarter of 2021, we worked with an advisory firm to 
conduct a global survey of quick service restaurant (QSR) workers (not just Yum! 
employees) to understand the challenges they face at work and at home. 
Our key partners include:
• Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics
• American Potato Trade Alliance
• American Vegetarian Association
• CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™
• Conference for Food Protection
• Consortium for Graduate Studies in Management
• Dairy Management Incorporated™
• Food Industry Asia
• Food Waste Reduction Alliance
• Institute for Food Technologists
• International Franchise Association
• International Poultry Council
• Louisville Sustainability Council
• Multicultural Foodservice & Hospitality Alliance™
• National Chicken Council
• National Pork Board• National Restaurant Association®
• National Retail Federation®
• New York Declaration on Forests
• OneTen
• Paradigm for Parity®
• Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance
• Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil™
• Serving Europe
• USA Poultry & Egg Export Council
• U.S. Chamber Business Councils
• U.S. Green Building Council
• U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef
• U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Poultry & Eggs
• We Are All Human-Hispanic Promise
• Women’s Foodservice Forum
• World Wildlife FundREPORTING & DISCLOSURES 
Regular reporting is the primary way that we share our progress and show 
transparency around our ESG practices. In addition to publishing annual 
updates on our Recipe for Good, which is completed in accordance with core 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, we participate in comprehensive 
voluntary disclosures including the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index, CDP 
Climate Change, Forests and Water Security, the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index, and the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Annual 
Communication of Progress. 
To support further data transparency and disclosure, we’ve significantly 
increased investments in technology over the past year. TrueView, our new 
data collection tool, captures data gathered throughout the company, such as 
by our food safety and supply chain teams, providing a comprehensive picture 
of our business. The tool was used to collect sustainability data in 2021 and 
will be fully rolled out in 2022. We have also established a global membership 
in Sedex, an organization that works with businesses to improve working 
conditions in global supply chains. Our membership will provide a platform  
to communicate our sustainability agenda with suppliers and expand ESG  
issue management.
At Yum!, we continue to seek ways to better meet the needs of our stakeholders. 
To that end, and in step with our sharpened climate strategy, we are sharing 
our first-ever climate-related risks and opportunities through TCFD in this 
report. The results of our TCFD assessment, conducted in early 2021, provide an 
analysis of the physical and regulatory risks that directly impact our restaurants 
and supply chain across regions and brands. This will improve oversight and 
provide external stakeholders with more information about how we manage 
business risks and opportunities related to climate change. 
In addition, we are transitioning to the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) framework, which investors have identified as useful for 
restaurant companies. We are encouraged by the efforts to harmonize and align 
the GRI and SASB, and we expect to have substantial implementation of SASB 
standards by the end of 2022.
RISK & ISSUE MANAGEMENT 
According to the World Economic Forum’s 2021 Global Risks Report, 
environmental and societal risks, such as extreme weather, infectious diseases 
and exclusion from economic opportunity, are some of the most likely risks 
that societies will face over the next few years. Attention to ESG issues, such 
as addressing climate change and inequality, must be part of any company’s 
approach to risk management, and Yum! is no exception. For example, 
COVID-19 and other diseases could continue to limit store-level operations and 
increase restaurant operating costs. Food-borne illnesses could hurt our  
brands and reputation and potentially lead to litigation. Disruptions due to  
climate-related natural disasters could lead to substantial damage or  
restaurant closures. 
At Yum!, we continue to evaluate how priority ESG issues integrate into our 
global ERM activities. Much like our materiality assessment process, this 
exercise allows us to sharpen our top ESG issues from an ERM perspective and 
prioritize them according to their importance to our business and stakeholders. 
Yum! has also prepared a climate change brief summarizing the physical  
and transition risks faced by our restaurants in regions around the world, 
leveraging recommendations by the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD).UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
Our company is well positioned to contribute to numerous United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals that align closely with our work including:
Transparency is foundational to the execution of our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy. We make a range  
of policies, public positions and other resources available to stakeholders. Over the past year, we have enhanced  
our Human Rights and Labor Practices Policy. View our full list of policies and positions here . 
Policies & 
Positions 
Lasting conservation is achieved through collaboration with a range of partners, including 
companies such as Yum!. We leverage the power of partnerships to drive meaningful change to reduce 
environmental threats and make a positive impact on nature. Yum! continues to take critical steps 
along this path with its commitment toward eliminating deforestation and creating sustainable 
circular material systems in its supply chains. WWF is proud to continue our work together to 
implement more sustainability in the food service industry. 
Sheila Bonini
Senior Vice President, Private Sector Engagement, WWFFood
Harvest, Yum!’s prepared food donation program, continues 
to feed people through donations to hunger  
relief organizations. 
Harvest also allows us to address the challenge of food 
waste. We are reducing the amount of packaging waste sent 
to landfill with initiatives across our brands. People
Education is one of the focus areas of the Unlocking 
Opportunity Initiative, through which we will make 
investments to help employees and community members 
grow their skills.
Our franchise restaurants provide jobs for more than  
1.5 million people worldwide, and we’re constantly  
evaluating opportunities to address the development needs 
and aspirations of our restaurant teams and leaders.
As part of the Unlocking Opportunity Initiative, key markets 
in each brand are implementing programs that address local 
inequities in communities.
Planet
Yum! restaurants have taken steps to reduce water use, and 
we’ve conducted a global water risk assessment to better 
understand our footprint. 
In 2021, we announced new science-based targets, which 
give us a roadmap for reducing GHG emissions to levels 
aligned with the Paris Agreement.
Yum! is partnering with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to 
identify and eliminate deforestation risk in our supply chain. PEOPLE
We Unlock Opportunity
PEOPLE DASHBOARD
ESTABLISHED GOALS 
• Significantly increase the number of women in senior leadership globally and achieve gender parity 
in leadership globally by 2025, ahead of our 2030 commitment aligned with Paradigm for Parity®
• Strengthen supplier development and engagement around human rights in the supply chain by 
having all suppliers globally on Sedex platform by 2023 
• Measure Yum! Brands’ employee engagement
• Provide Yum! Brands’ employees with training and development that builds world-class leaders and 
business results
• Investing and allocating $100 million inside and outside our business over five years to tackle 
inequality with a focus on equity and inclusion, education and entrepreneurship
• Minimize unconscious bias through employee education and experiences
OPPORTUNITIES & CHALLENGES
• Fostering a consistently inclusive culture across four brands, thousands of global locations and both 
company- and franchise-owned restaurants
• Creating a great place to work for all employees in a competitive labor market
• Aligning safe work practices with local conditions amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic 
KEY TAKEAWAYS
• The Yum! Foundation developed a governance structure and is creating a measurement model to 
guide our investments and impact through the Unlocking Opportunity Initiative. 
• We strengthened our wellness-related benefits for employees to help them better navigate 
personal challenges associated with COVID-19. 
• The Heartstyles leadership development program is fully integrated into the Yum! family and is 
being introduced to franchisees and restaurant general managers worldwide. 
• Yum! has established a global membership with Sedex that will strengthen our risk assessment and 
remediation processes, particularly around human rights and labor practices. 
MATERIAL ISSUES
• Equity, Inclusion & Belonging 
• Employee Health & Safety
• Talent Attraction, Engagement & Retention
• Community & Philanthropy
• Human Rights & Labor Practices
13 1215
PEOPLE 14
UNL OCKING
INITIA TIVEOPPORTUNIT YUNL OCKING UNL OCKINGOCKING UNL OCK UNL OCKING
INITIA TIVE INITIA TIVE ITIA TIVE IOPPORTUNIT Y ORTUOPPORTUNIT Y ORTUOPPORTUNIT Y ORTUPORTUNRT
EQUITY & INCLUSION 
Today, leading with an inclusive mindset and 
with actions focused on systemic change is more 
important than ever. As we navigate the road ahead 
in partnership with our 2,000+ franchisees  around 
the world, we are expanding our investment in 
global and local programs that advance equity and 
inclusion throughout our business. 
Building on our ongoing inclusion efforts, starting from the inside out, Yum! 
and our U.S. and global brands are strengthening and implementing plans with 
a focus on:
• Increasing diverse representation among our executive and management 
ranks, franchisees and suppliers, in the U.S. and globally. This builds on 
our initiative to advance women in leadership, and it will include targets 
that inspire and hold us accountable to aggressive progress over time. 
Additionally, in the U.S., we are focused on increasing underrepresented 
people of color and gender diversity including Black, Hispanic, Asian-
American, women and LGBTQ+ leaders and employees in our corporate 
locations and company-owned restaurants.
• Continuing to roll out inclusive leadership and anti-racism training across 
our system, including company and franchise restaurants.
• Investing in entrepreneurship, education and social justice in communities 
that have been historically marginalized and cities where our corporate 
offices are located.
• Partnering with franchisees on implementing the Unlocking Opportunity 
Initiative, leveraging and expanding their involvement.
Insights & Strategy  
We are strengthening our focus on diversity across each of Yum!’s brands by 
focusing on leadership and culture. In 2020, Pizza Hut U.S. appointed its first 
chief equity officer and KFC U.S. named its first director of Equity & Inclusion. 
Taco Bell launched the Equity, Inclusion & Belonging Guiding Coalition, a 
diverse cross-functional team driving forward the brand’s inclusion strategy.
In early 2021, Yum! conducted an equity, inclusion and belonging 
assessment  for above-restaurant leaders across all brands in the U.S. The goal 
of this assessment was to identify gaps and help us focus our efforts as we 
continue to create an inclusive culture. Similarly, Pizza Hut U.S. is working with 
a third-party analytics company to better understand how people from different 
backgrounds feel about their sense of belonging at Pizza Hut, with a focus on 
the brand as an employer, franchisor and neighbor.U.S. Multicultural Commitments
We aspire to increase representation of underrepresented people of color at 
Yum!. People of color already make up the majority of restaurant employees 
within our U.S. system, and we are working diligently to translate this 
representation into our corporate leaders and employees. We are a member 
of the OneTen coalition , a group of U.S. businesses leading a bold initiative 
to create career mobility and advancement opportunities for 1 million Black 
individuals  in the U.S. over the next 10 years . Yum! has also committed to 
the Hispanic Promise, a national pledge to hire, promote, retain and celebrate 
Hispanics in the workplace, and the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion.
In 2021, Yum! joined the Publicis Media Once & For All Coalition , a multiyear, 
cross-industry collaboration to build a more equitable advertising ecosystem for 
ethnically diverse media suppliers, content creators and production partners, 
with an initial focus on Black and Hispanic platforms. Alongside the Coalition, 
Yum! will establish a U.S. Multicultural Marketing Leadership Council to 
drive cross-brand implementation of the company’s multicultural marketing 
strategies. 
KEY EQUITY & INCLUSION PARTNERSHIPS
Equity & Inclusion
We’ll deepen our investments in efforts 
to produce equity, fairness, inclusion and 
belonging inside our company, across all 
aspects of our brands and throughout our  
franchise businesses.We’ll expand access and funding of 
education and skills training, which 
both empower restaurant team 
members to build their best lives and 
uplift our communities.We’ll create pathways to entrepreneurship for 
restaurant employees wanting to lead a business, 
franchise or social enterprise, as well as for small 
businesses and social entrepreneurs looking to 
make a meaningful difference in  
their communities.Equity & Inclusion Education Entrepreneurship
Strengthening Our Unrivaled  
Culture & Talent
As one of the world’s largest restaurant companies, our people are our biggest 
assets. From the restaurant to the corner office, investing in people with 
globally scalable development programs that benefit our restaurant general 
managers is at the center of our strategy to elevate the customer experience, 
unlock growth for our 2,000 franchisees  and make a difference in the world. 
We believe that the unrivaled culture and talent in our brands give us a 
competitive advantage when it comes to growing our business. It’s also a key 
reason why talent attraction, engagement and retention rank among the most 
material corporate social responsibility issues. Moving forward, we’re building 
on our strengths and taking on new challenges by investing in strategic 
initiatives that unlock opportunity and create an inclusive culture for all 
talent to thrive at work and at home. 
Investing in Social Impact:  
Unlocking Opportunity
In 2020, we announced a new social purpose. The Unlocking Opportunity 
Initiative builds on 20 years of investing in our people-first culture and is a 
landmark commitment to have a positive and sustainable social impact on the 
communities where we operate and for the restaurant team members who work 
on the front lines of our brands around the world. Many of our restaurant team 
members around the globe face some form of inequality. And because we want 
to be part of the solution to their challenges, inside and outside our business , 
we’re investing $100 million  over the next five years to fight inequality with 
focus on three areas including equity and inclusion, education and skills  
and entrepreneurship.
Relevant,  Easy 
& Distinctive Br ands
Innovate and elevate iconic restaura
brands people trust and championnt
Unmatched 
Oper ating C apabilit y
Recruit and equip the best
restaurant ope rators in 
the world to deliver
great customer
experience s
Bold Re staura nt
Development
Drive mark et and fr anchise 
unit expansion with 
strong economics 
and valueUnrivaled Culture  & Talent
Levera ge culture  and people 
capability to fuel bra nd 
performance and 
franchise success
Planet
Grow 
sustainably
Food
Serve delicious
food people trust
PeopleGOODGOODGROW TH17 16
PEOPLE
EDUCATION
Every year, thousands of young people have their first 
job at KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or The Habit Burger 
Grill, gaining work experience as well as life skills that 
can be applied throughout their careers. Many of these 
individuals go on to manage restaurants, and some even 
become franchisees who own multiple restaurants in our 
family of brands. Employees who work for our brands or 
at our corporate headquarters likewise benefit from a range of opportunities 
to develop professionally. Given our global reach and scale, a career at Yum!, 
allows people to work across brands, functions and geographies, exploring 
many interests and passions all within one company.
We’re expanding access and funding for education and skills training, which 
both empower restaurant team members and uplift our communities. Beyond 
the experiences that our people gain on the job, we have a number of formal 
programs that help people grow personally and professionally.
Building World-Class Restaurant Managers 
In March 2020, we acquired the Heartstyles company after years of partnership 
to advance Yum!’s commitment to cultivating world-class leaders across the 
organization and especially at the front lines of our brands. Heartstyles is an 
intuitive and practical method for helping people learn how to become the 
best versions of themselves, lead authentically and build workplace cultures 
that unlock the potential of teams and deliver strong results. At Yum!, we have 
initiated multiyear plans to scale Heartstyles so we can offer it efficiently to our 
2,000 franchisees  who run 98%  of our over 50,000 restaurants .
A key component of the hands-on training program is the Heartstyles 
Indicator, an online self- and 360-degree assessment and action plan that 
helps individuals identify and generate positive and constructive attitudes, 
thinking and behaviors that help them in life and at work. In 2020, nearly 
6,500 Heartstyles Indicators  were completed by employees and franchisees 
across our brands. The benefits of Heartstyles are not only felt by an individual 
and their colleagues, but also by customers in our restaurants. When RGMs 
are more engaged, their team members are, too. This translates into better 
employee retention, better food and a better customer experience. 
 
Other programs include Leading with a Growth Mindset, a Pizza Hut 
International course designed for RGMs. To date, 40% of RGMs have been 
through the program, and the brand aims to train all RGMs globally by 2022.ENTREPRENEURSHIP
We’re creating pathways to entrepreneurship for 
restaurant employees wanting to lead a business, 
franchise or social enterprise, as well as for small 
businesses and social entrepreneurs looking to 
make a meaningful difference in their communities.
At Yum!, we are dedicated to recruiting franchisees 
who are people of color and women and are actively engaged in programs 
that support their development. We helped launch the International Franchise 
Association’s Minority Franchise Program, an initiative that provides a 
one-stop point of access for minority prospects who are exploring franchise 
opportunities.Elevating Women Leaders
When it comes to advancing our 
women leaders, it starts at the top 
with our CEO, leadership teams and 
franchisees who serve as champions 
to advance our global strategy while 
encouraging grassroots advocacy 
efforts. From being a founding 
member of the Women’s Foodservice 
Forum in 1999 to establishing female 
mentoring programs for our restaurant 
general managers (RGMs) and offering 
leadership coaching, we know that investing in our female talent is a key 
element to driving growth for our business. In 2020, we increased the number 
of women in senior leadership globally to 47% , accelerating our target to 
achieve gender parity in leadership globally by 2025. Our previous aspiration 
was in line with Paradigm for Parity’s goal to advance women to senior roles and 
achieve gender parity in leadership globally by 2030. 
Expanded Employee Engagement
As part of our broad commitments to tackle inequality and racial injustice,  
our brands have made independent strides to strengthen their approaches.  
For example, each brand required employees to create a diversity and 
inclusion goal  that would guide them throughout 2020. Goals could include 
raising awareness about the need for more inclusive benefits or leading change 
through Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). Taco Bell launched five new ERGs 
in the summer of 2020 alone. All brands also conducted listening tours to 
understand employees’ and franchisees’ perspectives and learn how we  
can do better.
Inclusion Around the WorldAdvancing Franchise Health & Diversity 
In 2020, we formally established a Global Franchise Office to galvanize Yum!’s 
efforts to drive and support franchise economic health, education and diversity. 
The Global Franchise Office has hosted several virtual events over the past year, 
including EmpowHER conferences for women and people of color in franchising.
The Office also helped create the Yum! Center for Franchisee Excellence in 
partnership with the University of Louisville. The Center is the first business 
program of its kind at a public university, providing existing and potential 
franchisees multiple levels of online education focused on the franchising 
model across industries. In addition, the Center will focus on recruiting and 
educating underrepresented people of color and women on the possibilities of 
franchising as a pathway to entrepreneurship. 
 We’re proud to partner with the University 
of Louisville on developing a sustainable, 
globally scalable program that democratizes 
exposure to and builds knowledge of the 
franchising industry for all. Our hope is 
the Center will carve a path to economic 
opportunity and successful ownership for 
talented, underrepresented people while 
bringing diverse voices and ideas to the 
broader franchising community.
Scott Catlett, 
Yum! Chief Legal & Franchise OfficerWanda Williams,  
Head of Yum! Global Franchising
KFC has seen a
9% INCREASE
in guest satisfaction for RGMs who  
have gone through Heartstyles.
Among employees of our franchise restaurants around the 
world, there’s already plenty to celebrate. KFC marked the 
opening of its 25,000th  restaurant in 2020, which is led 
and operated by an all-female team in Hyderabad, India, 
joining the ranks of teams at KFC Saudi Arabia and Pizza Hut 
Ethiopia with all-female staffs . Our first KFC in Senegal is 
the first franchise chain to have a female-only staff — from 
restaurant workers all the way to the franchise CEO. 
Another KFC India franchisee operates more than  
30 restaurants staffed entirely by team members with 
disabilities, as does a Pizza Hut franchisee in Sri Lanka. 
These restaurants focus on training, development and 
creating an accessible work environment with tailored 
equipment, and the KFC franchisee hopes to expand to  
70 of these restaurants over the next four years.Education
Entrepreneurship19 18
PEOPLE
In response to the pandemic,  
KFC U.S. donated more than
3 MILLION
PIECES OF CHICKEN  
to feed front-line healthcare workers,  
educators and seniors in need across America.The Habit’s fleet of  
food trucks served 
30,000
MEALS
to medical workers at hospitals and  
vaccination centers throughout 2020.Brand Community Impact 
Our brands have been giving back to their communities for decades, particularly in the areas of hunger relief, literacy and youth education. During 2020 and 
beyond, each of our brands has also focused on assisting essential workers affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
As one of the world’s largest restaurant companies, feeding people is core to what we do. In 2020, Taco Bell U.S. and The Habit Burger Grill participated in a 
“round up” program through which customers could round up the cost of their order to the nearest dollar, with the extra amount donated to No Kid Hungry. The 
Taco Bell Foundation raised $19.5 million  through its Round Up program in 2020. Similarly, KFC South Africa continued its popular Add Hope program, which 
provides 150,000 meals  for children each day through customers rounding up the cost of their meals. In addition to its long-term partnership with No Kid 
Hungry, The Habit has begun working with Second Harvest, a Southern California-based food bank that makes fresh food available to underserved communities.
Beyond giving time and funds to hunger relief organizations, our brands also donate food from our restaurants. Yum!’s Harvest program, the world’s first 
prepared food donation program, continued in 2020, with our distribution centers serving as a key source of donations when our restaurants were impacted by 
the pandemic. Since the program’s inception in 1992, we have donated 209 million pounds  of food through Harvest.
In the early days of the pandemic, Pizza Hut delivery drivers across Europe delivered not only pizza, but also food ingredients and essential supplies like masks. 
The KFC Foundation helped support essential workers on KFC restaurant teams through the KFC Family Fund and the Grocery Assistance Fund, which provided 
$500,000  worth of groceries to team members across the U.S. Yum! also donated $1.4 million  to food banks globally.
LITERACY & EDUCATION
Another way we can unlock potential is by helping young people gain skills for success in school, social interactions and future careers. In the U.S., Pizza Hut 
has operated the BOOK IT! reading program for elementary-level students since 1984. In recent years, BOOK IT! has partnered with First Book’s Stories for All 
project, through which they have become more intentional about recommending books with diverse characters. In 2020, they helped launch Empowering 
Educators, a collection of resources for teachers with guidance on creating equitable learning environments and navigating conversations about race. 
Internationally, Pizza Hut offers the ASPIRE Scholarship Program for top RGMs. The scholarships are 100%  funded to unlock the true potential of their top 
restaurant leaders by giving them access to higher education and the ability to grow at work and in life. Since the program began in 2019, nearly 40 RGMs 
have participated.
The Habit Burger Grill supports schools through cash grants as well as donations of “char tickets” that students can use to conduct their own fundraisers. In 
Australia, the KFC Youth Foundation is focused on the role of confidence in young people’s well-being and future success and commissioned a nationwide 
research report on how confidence affects the lives of Australian youth.
In the summer of 2020, the Taco Bell Foundation hosted a virtual gathering for the Live Más Scholarship community to catalyze inspiration, action and 
resilience in a time of change. The six-week long program saw nearly 1,000 students  register for 18 sessions  and 21 plus hours of content including Virtual 
HR Coaching, Financial Wellness, the Power of Authenticity, Personal Branding and more. UNLOCKING OPPORTUNITY IN ACTION
Driving Economic Growth With Black Entrepreneurs
In Louisville, Kentucky, the first business incubator for Black entrepreneurs 
aims to increase business creation to drive economic growth, mobility and 
independence. Through  Russell Tech Business Incubator (RTBI) Black 
business owners will have access to services and resources to help them 
get started, succeed and grow . This includes everything from marketing and 
finance services to sales and technical advice and business coaches for expertise 
and support. The incubator is under the umbrella of AMPED, the Academy 
of Music Production Education and Development , focused on full-service 
family support to empower youth and their families. AMPED intends RTBI to 
become a national model within three to five years.Building Capacity to Jumpstart Entrepreneurship
Through its Feeding Futures program , KFC Canada is developing a proprietary 
entrepreneurial program to build capability and jumpstart entrepreneurship 
amongst under-resourced immigrant and BIPOC cohorts. In partnership with 
Initiative for a Competitive Inner City , over 65 candidates annually will 
participate in an online mini-MBA program with an exclusive KFC-designed 
course for food and service entrepreneurs. The program will also help 
candidates overcome the financial barriers to entrepreneurship with a 
financial award upon successful completion of the program.Investing in Young Entrepreneurs 
In the United Kingdom, Pizza Hut is creating the New Founders Programme  
to unlock opportunity for Black, female and young entrepreneurs by equipping 
them with the capability, connections and capital needed to start their 
own business and create jobs in the community.  This work will be done in 
partnership with Hatch, a nonprofit focused on building a fairer society .
Tackling Female Youth Unemployment 
In South Africa, Pizza Hut is tackling youth unemployment through its Equal 
Employability, LeadHERship program . Unemployment among the country’s 
youth is more than 50%, and the brand is committed to doing its part to drive 
change. In particular, the program will focus on marginalized young females, 
ages 18 to 24, as they make up more than 70% of the unemployed youth. Pizza 
Hut South Africa believes that this employability program will start to shift the 
way youth show up in the workplace. Pizza Hut and Yes4Youth will partner with 
nonprofit organizations around the country to identify and drive internship 
opportunities for pre-selected young women who will go through a 
12-month work experience to gain required skills and support better career 
opportunities.
Ensuring Success in School for Teens
In partnership with the Boys and Girls Clubs of America's Odyssey Life 
Readiness Program , we provide teens ages 12-18 with tools to support success 
in school, reduction of truancy and help close the education gap. This program 
will be relaunched in Collin County, Texas, and expanded throughout the U.S.
The Taco Bell Foundation opened its  
sixth annual Live Más Scholarship 
application period in 2020, withPizza Hut offers top RGMs the ASPIRE 
Scholarship Program that is
$7 MILLION
in scholarships available for  
passionate young students,    
$2 million of which was for 
 Taco Bell team members.100% FUNDED 
to unlock the true potential of their 
top restaurant leaders.
HUNGER RELIEF21 20
PEOPLEEthics & Human Rights 
At Yum!, our success depends on holding 
our employees and suppliers to the highest 
standards of ethical conduct and socially 
responsible business practices, which are 
expressed in our global Code of Conduct. 
Every year, our board of directors and our 
2,000  most senior employees must certify in 
writing that they have read and understand 
the Code of Conduct and complete a conflicts 
of interest questionnaire.
When it comes to interacting with one another, employees are expected to 
demonstrate mutual respect. Sexual, racial, ethnic, religious or any other 
type of harassment has no place at Yum!. It is our policy to deal fairly with 
employees; provide equal opportunity for all in recruiting, hiring, developing, 
promoting and compensating without regard to race, religion, color, age, 
gender, disability, genetic information, military or veteran status, sexual 
orientation, gender identity and/or expression, citizenship, national origin or 
other legally protected status; maintain a professional, safe and discrimination-
free work environment; and recognize and compensate employees based on 
their performance.
HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN
We require suppliers to conduct audits and inspections to verify compliance 
with our Code of Conduct as well as to conduct unannounced assessments, 
audits and inspections of supplier facilities. In recent years, we have 
strengthened commitments in key areas of our supply chain, including 
vegetables, fresh produce and palm oil, to further emphasize the importance 
of leading human rights practices. Our practices are aligned with the Fair Food 
Standards Council and the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil.
We strive to maintain a work environment that respects and supports human 
rights for all employees around the world, as well as those of our suppliers. To 
this end, our company has further invested in human rights due diligence and 
is sharpening our efforts to align with the United Nations Guiding Principles 
Commit
Track &  
MonitorActionIdentify &
AssessCommunicate  
& Report
Stakeholder
Engagement
Grievance &
RemedyHuman Rights Due Diligence Approachon Business & Human Rights. In 2020, we established a global membership 
with Sedex, a leading ethical trade organization that works with businesses 
to improve working conditions in global supply chains. Sedex simplifies the 
auditing process for suppliers, allowing them to undergo a single audit for 
multiple customers. Becoming a member of Sedex will strengthen our risk 
assessment and remediation processes, particularly around human rights and 
labor practices, enabling better supplier development and engagement. We 
aim to have all suppliers globally on the Sedex platform by 2023.
Markets around the world, such as Australia and the U.K., are strengthening 
regulations regarding modern slavery, forced labor and the rights of migrant 
workers. While our restaurants are not particularly at risk for these issues, our 
brands are working to improve their own due diligence around these topics. KFC 
Australia published its first Modern Slavery Statement in 2020, and KFC U.K. & 
Ireland is developing training for restaurant teams and suppliers to help them 
understand new guidelines and address issues. This training will teach people 
not only to recognize forced labor in their own workforces, but also to identify 
and speak up about trafficking that could potentially occur among visitors to  
our restaurants.
We encourage both employees and non-employees to raise concerns related to 
ethics, human rights and interactions with other employees. An independent 
third party operates an ethics hotline, known as The Speak Up Helpline, on 
our behalf. The Speak Up Helpline is available 24/7 globally, with translation 
services available to handle grievances in more than 15 languages. The Audit 
Committee of our board of directors has additional procedures for handling 
employee concerns related to accounting and auditing matters.
Yum!’s COVID-19 Response 
During the coronavirus pandemic, our No. 1 priority was the health and safety of our KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell  
and The Habit Burger Grill employees, customers and franchisees. Our response focused on the four following areas:
Supporting Impacted Employees
Application-based Global Medical Relief Fund that made  
one-time grants to corporate and franchisee employees in  
85 countries affected by COVID-19
One-time $1,000 bonuses for nearly 1,200 RGMs at  
company-owned stores
One-time bonuses for employees at company-owned stores
Increased sick time for restaurant team members and  
shift leads at company-owned stores
Memorial program to cover funeral or medical costs  
for employees who pass away
Helping Franchise Business Owners
Global Franchise Health and COVID-19 Support Team for  
business continuity
Capital assistance and grace periods  
for paymentsKeeping Restaurants Open Safely 
Low-contact options including delivery, drive-thru  
and curbside pickup 
Contactless delivery through our own and  
third-party services 
Temperature checks and counter shields  
for increased safety 
Giving Back to Communities
Hundreds of thousands of meals donated to food banks, 
healthcare workers and other essential personnel
Books and other educational resources for students without 
access to these items at home
The Yum! Foundation played a critical role in 
providing relief throughout the COVID-19 crisis.
$11.5M
in COVID-19  relief
$1.4M
to global food bank 
support$1.6M
in community aid$8.5M
to the Employee 
Medical Relief Fund and 
memorial support for 
impacted restaurant 
employees23
FOOD
We Serve Food  
People Trust
FOOD DASHBOARD
ESTABLISHED GOALS 
• Build on our supplier audit track record and assess 100% of Tier 1 suppliers annually
• Offer lower-calorie menu options across main dishes, combos and sides, consistent with our global 
nutrition standards that align with the World Health Organization and the Dietary Guidelines for 
Americans. By 2030, we intend to offer 50% of menu items consistent with our company's global 
nutrition criteria for meal options. 
• Continue clean labels efforts to remove artificial colors, artificial flavors and partially hydrogenated oils 
(PHOs) from core food ingredients globally by 2025
OPPORTUNITIES & CHALLENGES
• Maintaining food safety and quality, and trust in our food, despite business and supply chain 
disruptions throughout the pandemic 
• Balancing customer preferences for craveable menu items with commitments to improve the 
nutritional profile of our food 
• Creating transparency around how animals used in our food are cared for at every phase of life and 
communicating animal welfare practices to stakeholders 
KEY TAKEAWAYS
• Despite travel limitations during the pandemic, we have maintained close contact with global 
suppliers and achieved our highest-ever level of audit compliance. 
• We continue to meet customer demand for plant-based food. We are introducing new plant-based 
menu items throughout 2021, including items developed through a global strategic partnership with 
Beyond Meat, Inc.  
MATERIAL ISSUES
• Food Safety
• Choice & Nutrition
• Food Technology & GMOs
• Responsible Marketing
23 2225 24
FOOD
RECIPE NOTES  
KEEPING PLANTS IN PLANT-BASED FOOD 
with Missy Schaaphok, RDN 
Senior Manager of Global Nutrition & Sustainability, Taco Bell 
Q: What is Taco Bell’s history with plant-based food?  
A:  We’ve been a leader in this space for years. About five years ago, Taco Bell became 
the first quick-service restaurant (QSR) brand to partner with the American Vegetarian 
Association to certify our vegetarian ingredients. Today, vegetarian menu items represent 
more than 14% of our total sales. These offerings include meatless proteins like black 
and refried beans, which have been on our menu for over 50 years, as well as veggies 
like our seasoned potatoes. While the term “plant-based” is often used to describe meat 
substitutes, it’s worth remembering that plants — including vegetables, legumes and fruits 
— are plant-based, too. 
Q: What are some recent menu innovations that you’re excited about? 
A:  While Taco Bell has no shortage of choices for the veggie-curious, we have even more 
meatless options in store this year that even meat-eaters will love. In early 2021, we piloted 
the Cravetarian Taco, with a plant-based protein that tastes like seasoned beef but is made 
with peas and chickpeas. Recently, we also tested a plant-based alternative to the Naked 
Chicken Chalupa – The Naked Chalupa made with a Crispy Plant-based Shell. Additionally, 
Taco Bell is participating in Yum!’s national partnership with Beyond Meat, developing a 
one-of-a-kind product that we look forward to sharing with customers later this year. 
Q:  Besides new menu items, what are some other ways you’re helping vegetarian, vegan or 
flexitarian customers find what they’re looking for at Taco Bell ?
A:  We’re increasing awareness and access through a more user-friendly ordering experience. 
In 2020, we introduced Veggie Mode at all of our in-store ordering kiosks, which instantly 
transforms our menu to show only vegetarian options. On our app and website, we’ve 
made it easy to see the many ways you can customize menu items to replace meat. Menu 
boards in restaurants and drive-thrus also feature a prominent green “V” next to all 
vegetarian items. Our data tells us that these small tweaks are making a big difference.
QA
Food Safety
Food safety is foundational to us and our brands. We uphold an industry-
leading food safety program, including processes for auditing suppliers, 
mitigating risk across our global supply chain and training employees. The 
benefits of having a rigorous program in place became even more evident 
during the COVID-19 pandemic, when business closures strained supply chains 
and reducing contamination was of the utmost importance. Our Global Food 
Safety team worked hand in hand with our company’s operations, supply 
chain, communications, public relations and legal teams to create a safe and 
coordinated response. The team has contingency plans in place to make sure 
food products, as well as supplies like hand sanitizer and personal protective 
equipment, have remained available throughout the pandemic. When 
restaurants were required to close temporarily, employees followed strict 
cleaning procedures for safe shutdown and reopening. Best practices,  
including food safety protocols, were shared across the company through  
Core Crisis Teams.
While in-person audits were challenging to achieve under certain restrictions 
during 2020, they remained a priority. In addition to training and certifying 
local auditors, recent investments in technology have allowed us to conduct 
virtual audits and not only maintain, but increase visibility into suppliers’ 
performance. We have also strengthened and simplified communication of 
compliance requirements to better align with international frameworks like the 
Global Food Safety Initiative. As a result, more suppliers completed full audits 
in 2020, and achieved higher levels of performance on those audits, than in any 
previous year. We continue to audit all high-risk suppliers annually. 
Limitations on travel also created an opportunity for us to connect more 
regularly with members of our supply chain. We formed virtual “colleges” 
that convened suppliers, franchisees and third-party auditors for continuing 
education and discussion of food safety topics. While we hope to resume 
in-person activities soon, we also plan to continue this more inclusive and 
sustainable virtual approach in some form. 
Food safety is not a competitive advantage — it is a public health imperative. 
That’s why Yum! regularly works with peers across the food industry to share 
best practices and build our collective knowledge. Groups with which we have 
been particularly active over the past year include a Quality Assurance Study 
Group of the National Restaurant Association and the Center for Food Safety at 
the University of Georgia, which is affiliated with the U.S. Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention.Balanced Choices
In line with our global nutrition standards, we’re committed to providing 
customers with more access to balanced food choices that meet their lifestyles 
and dietary preferences. Our overarching nutritional commitment is:
We use calories to measure progress and track alignment 
with organizations that establish global nutrition criteria, 
with the goal of providing meals that contain no more 
than one-third of the Recommended Daily Allowance of 
calories. This standard is in line with recommendations 
from the World Health Organization and the Dietary 
Guidelines for Americans. We are working to gather data 
to assess how these criteria are reflected across menus, 
which vary greatly by brand and across markets. 
Taco Bell is on track to meet its goal of offering at least 
50% of its medium fountain beverages at 100 calories 
and 20 grams of sugar or less by 2022. The brands have 
also limited sodium in select products. Internationally, 
Pizza Hut is working to reduce sodium in its cheeses 
and is now using these cheeses in approximately 40% 
of international markets. Taco Bell U.S. is transitioning 
to lower-sodium cinnamon twists, accounting for a 50% 
reduction in sodium from the original ingredient.
of our menu items will be consistent with  
our global nutrition criteria.
50%By 2030
Global Nutrition Criteria
caloriesMain Item
caloriesSide Item
≤ 200 ≤ 400
caloriesCombo/Meal
≤ 750
27 26
PLANT-BASED AROUND THE WORLD 
Plant-based foods aren’t limited to just one brand or one region — they’re part of a global movement 
influencing menus at all of our restaurants. Here are a few of the plant-based menu items that  
customers are enjoying around the world. Plant-Based Options  
Plant-based eating is here to stay. From diners who choose exclusively 
vegan and vegetarian options, to flexitarians who enjoy a meat-free meal 
every now and then, KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill 
are responding to today’s preferences with menu items for everyone. 
The proof of our commitment is clear in our recently announced global 
strategic partnership with Beyond Meat, Inc. Through this partnership, 
we’ll leverage our brands’ industry-leading research and development capabilities to co-create new plant-based protein menu items. Several of our 
brands have already launched products in collaboration with Beyond, such as 
KFC’s Beyond Fried Chicken. Pizza Hut U.S. tested plant-based Italian sausage 
and ran a limited time offer nationwide on The Great Beyond and Beyond Italian 
Sausage pizzas in 2020. Our brands are also developing plant-based menu 
items outside of the Beyond partnership. Plant-based options were also offered 
in Pizza Hut restaurants in the U.K., Poland, Canada and Puerto Rico. Pizza Hut 
is actively working to add a permanent plant-based protein to its menu across 
multiple markets.
KFC
Currently, KFC U.K. offers a vegan burger in 
select restaurants and KFC Canada has a  
plant-based sandwich on its permanent menu. 
KFC Malaysia and KFC Singapore offered the 
Zero Chicken Burger for a limited time, and five 
other markets have tested plant-based products 
to better understand customer preferences. 
KFC continues to explore products to bring the 
craveable taste of its iconic recipes like Original 
Recipe to customers that want more options.
Taco Bell
Taco Bell recently offered a Halloumi 
Crunchwrap in Cyprus and a pulled-oats 
vegan protein throughout Europe. The brand 
is exploring meat-alternative options with a 
number of different partners. 
Pizza Hut
Pilots of plant-based cheeses and toppings 
are underway in 10 countries. For example, 
Canadian restaurants launched, not only the 
Great Beyond Pizza, but also Beyond Creamy 
Alfredo Pasta and a Beyond Italian Sausage 
flatbread. Pizza Hut U.K. has tested plant-based 
toppings including Pork and Sweet Chili, Italian 
Sausage Supreme and Beef Sizzler, as well as 
new menu items such as Tear & Share pizzas 
and Corn Nuggets. 
The Habit Burger Grill
With a vast majority of restaurants in the U.S., 
Habit's menu features a vegan Veggie Burger 
and sides including Sweet Potato Fries and 
Tempura Green Beans — with more plant-
forward menu items to come in 2021. 
FOODPLANET
We Grow Sustainably
PLANET DASHBOARD
29 28CLIMATE ACTION
• By 2030, reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions generated by 
corporate restaurants and offices to 46% below 2019 levels
• By 2030, reduce emissions per franchisee restaurant, and per 
metric ton of beef, poultry, dairy and packaging to 46% below 
2019 levels 
• Use 100% renewable energy in our corporate U.S. offices for 2020 
and beyond 
• Move 1,000 restaurants to renewable energy by the end  
of 2021
• End natural forest loss in our supply chain by 2030 
• Reach net-zero emissions by 2050
• Reduce average restaurant energy and GHG emissions by an 
additional 10%, from our 2017 baseline, by the end of 2025
SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING & WASTE REDUCTION 
• Purchase 100% of our paper-based packaging with fiber from 
responsibly managed forests and recycled sources by the end  
of 2022
• By 2025, KFC plastic-based, consumer-facing packaging will be 
recoverable or reusable globally.
• By 2025, Taco Bell aims to make all consumer-facing packaging 
recyclable, compostable or reusable. Recycling and/or composting 
bins will be added to all restaurants, where infrastructure permits, 
and PFAS, Phthalates and BPA will be removed from all consumer-
facing packaging materials.
• Yum! will remove expanded polystyrene from all packaging by  
the end of 2022.
• Divert 50% of back-of-house operational waste, measured by 
weight, generated in our U.S. restaurants by the end of 2025
• Reduce food loss waste 50% in the U.S. by 2030 in accordance 
with U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions.
WATER
• Reduce average restaurant water consumption by 10%,  
from our 2017 baseline, by the end of 2025 
ANIMAL WELFARE 
• Pizza Hut U.S. will remove antibiotics important to human 
medicine (per the World Health Organization) from its chicken 
wings by 2022.
• Taco Bell aims to reduce antibiotics used in human medicine by 
25% in its U.S. and Canada beef supply chain by 2025.• Following a multiyear process of collecting data and analyzing 
impacts across our value chain, we announced our first science-
based targets. 
• We produced our first-ever TCFD report to better understand our 
climate risks and opportunities across our restaurants and supply 
chain, building on our existing energy reduction work and recent 
science-based targets commitment.
• Restaurants are embracing green building technologies that save 
money and reduce environmental impact. 
• We are engaging chicken, beef and dairy suppliers on ways to 
reduce emissions associated with animal agriculture. 
• We continue to advance our sustainable packaging efforts, with 
Taco Bell leading the way — the brand launched an industry-first 
collaboration with international recycling leader TerraCycle to 
recycle its iconic hot sauce packets.  • Staying informed about the climate impacts of the products we 
source across multi-tiered and global supply chain
• As a franchisor, providing guidance to franchise business  
owners about how best to manage their restaurants’ 
environmental footprints 
• Keeping up with changing and often fragmented global 
regulations regarding the recyclability of materials used in  
our packaging 
MATERIAL ISSUES
• Climate Impact
• Operational Waste & Recycling
• Packaging 
• Sustainable Sourcing
• Water
• Animal WelfareKEY TAKEAWAYSOPPORTUNITIES & 
CHALLENGESESTABLISHED GOALS 31 30
PLANET
RECIPE NOTES  
A PACKAGING STRATEGY BASED ON 
PARTNERSHIP 
with Susan Miles,  
Director of Global Sustainability, KFC 
Q:  Yum! and its brands are working on a number of packaging-related goals, including to remove expanded polystyrene 
from all restaurants globally by 2022 and to make KFC’s plastic consumer packaging and all of Taco Bell’s consumer 
packaging recoverable or reusable by 2025. How are you making progress toward multiple targets at once?  
A:  It’s not an easy task. Government legislation and recycling infrastructure vary widely across the many parts 
of the world where we operate and can even change from city to city — so it can be hard to find common 
denominators. That said, we are on track for both our 2022 and 2025 goals. We’re following the lead of 
markets like France and India, which have already significantly shifted from single-use plastics, to inform our 
recommendations for other markets. A major trend we’re seeing in these markets is a shift away from plastics 
and toward fiber alternatives, including new materials like bamboo. 
Q:  What is Yum!’s internal process for thinking about packaging and ways to make it more sustainable?  
A:  We try to start with the functionality we need from a package: How do we need it to perform with a product 
for our customers and our team members to create a great experience? This needs to take into consideration 
the product and the eating occasion. There was a huge shift to off-premise in 2020, and the teams are focused 
on making sure product quality and safety and trust remain our focus. The package engineers work with cross-
functional teams and our suppliers to create or modify a package that moves us closer to our sustainability 
goals. This means looking at new materials, coatings and manufacturing processes. Overall, it’s a shift in the 
mindset from a linear model to a more circular way of thinking. It could be changing from a less recyclable 
material to a more recyclable material, choosing a different coating or even finding ways to use fewer materials 
or include recycled content. Small changes can have a BIG impact over time. We recognize it’s a journey, and 
we’re mindfully working towards better choices across our packaging at each of our brands. 
Q: What is the role of collaboration in increasing packaging recyclability? 
A:  For recycling to be successful, customers must know how to dispose of packaging materials properly. At the 
same time, there must be end markets that will accept the materials to turn them into new products. Yum! is 
involved in partnerships that are helping contribute to both sides of this equation. Our U.S. brands have signed 
up for How2Recycle, a customer-friendly labeling system that clearly explains how to dispose of a range of 
materials. These labels will first be used on bags at KFC. Through organizations like the NextGen Consortium 
and the Sustainable Packaging Coalition, we are engaging with material recovery facilities, recycling 
companies and our suppliers to understand what materials they can accept. Additionally, collaboration across 
our brands is another important piece of the puzzle. We recently organized internal summits on sustainable 
packaging to discuss possible future commitments and next steps.
QAClimate Action 
YUM!’S NEW SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS 
For more than 15 years, we have been working to operate more sustainably. We 
have developed a range of green-building programs to conserve energy in our 
restaurants and have explored ways to reduce deforestation throughout our 
supply chain. And over the past two years, we have been laying the foundation 
for the next phase of our journey: our first science-based targets, which give 
us a roadmap for reducing GHG emissions to levels aligned with the Paris 
Agreement that limit global warming to 1.5 degrees  Celsius.
We will work closely with brands, franchisees, suppliers and producers to 
cut emissions from franchisee restaurants on a per-restaurant basis and on 
a per-metric ton basis for beef, poultry, dairy and packaging. Actions already 
underway include piloting energy optimization and building management 
systems at restaurants worldwide and converting 1,000  restaurants to 
renewable energy sources by the end of 2021. 
Collaboration with climate-forward partners will help us stay accountable. 
We are now a member of the Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance, a group of 
large energy buyers, energy providers and service providers that have joined 
together to accelerate the transition to a zero-carbon energy future. We have 
also joined more than 1,700  other global companies in the We Mean Business 
Coalition, which helps encourage meaningful corporate action such as setting 
science-based targets, committing to 100% renewable power  and embracing 
responsible climate policy.
RESTAURANTS SUPPLY CHAIN
Reduce our GHG  
emissions
by 2030
46%Reach
emissions by 2050NET-
ZEROIn early 2021, our company announced our target to reduce emissions by 46%  
by 2030, compared to a 2019 baseline, and our ambition to achieve net-zero  
emissions by 2050. Arriving at this target required developing a comprehensive 
understanding of each of our areas of impact and our options for abatement. 
This includes impact areas both within our business, such as the efficiency of 
our offices and restaurants, and within our supply chain, such as the agricultural 
and land use practices employed when it comes to beef, chicken and dairy. Yum!’s Primary Sources of Emissions
Our GHG emissions were over 36 million metric tons of CO2e in 2019. Over 99% of those emissions were indirect emissions, Scope 3,  
while only about half of one percent came from energy use at company-owned restaurants and offices.
Purchased Goods - F ood
Waste 2%
4%
22%Transportatio n
Franchise Restaurant s
Purchased Goods
Emissions (million metric tons C O2e)0 10 20 30Packaging 2%
Chick en 40%Yum!’s Total GHG Emissions
68%
Other 2%Dair y
13%Beef
23%
All other
food 24%Scope 3 Emissions0 20,000 40,000 60,000
Emissions (metric tons C O2e)80,000 100,000 120,000 140,000 160,000 180,000Company
Restaurant s86%
14%Scope 1Scope 1
Scope 2 Scope 2Scope 1 & 2 Emissions
Scope Type33 32
PLANETKFC has made significant progress over the past year with its KFC Building 
Green Program by releasing a list of standard practices that new buildings in 
over 140 markets  must incorporate starting in 2021. These 11 requirements  
offer quick return on investment for franchisees and provide ongoing 
operational savings and will create a baseline across KFC’s global system. 
In the U.K. and Ireland, KFC is piloting 
building management systems (BMS) that 
automatically shut off equipment that is not 
needed and are calculated to reduce energy 
consumption by 30%  and has the potential to 
save approximately  $26,000 per store per 
year . The market is also working on a pilot 
with the University of Liverpool to determine 
what it would take to achieve zero-carbon restaurants using modeling and 
simulation of real energy data. KFC Australia is exploring a BMS that switches 
off non-essential loads during peak demand times, along with technologies 
including exhaust fan regulation. Restaurants in the country have also 
embraced solar energy — 15 sites  now using solar save thousands of dollars per 
year on energy costs.
SUPPLY CHAIN 
Within our supply chain, our most significant source of GHG emissions is 
attributable to the food we purchase, most significantly animal products including 
chicken, beef and dairy. Raising of these animals contributes to methane, nitrous 
oxide and carbon dioxide emissions as a result of animals' natural processes  
of digestion. 
To reduce our emissions from chicken, beef and dairy as part of our science-based 
target commitments, we will educate suppliers, recognize them for progress 
and encourage them to set emissions-reduction targets of their own. Areas 
for improvement could include practices such as improved fertilization and 
manure management, including the use of anaerobic digesters to produce heat 
and electricity from waste. Changing animals’ diets can also have emissions-
reduction benefits. For example, adding plant extracts known as tannins to cattle 
feed can reduce animals’ release of methane. Reducing livestock mortality by 
better controlling or eradicating livestock diseases also lowers each emissions' 
intensity, because it allows animals to live longer, more productive lives. Through 
conversations with select suppliers, we know that some are already leaders in this 
space, and we plan to learn from and leverage these partnerships.
Beyond supporting improved farming practices, at Yum!, we will continue to focus 
on the origins of our animal products. The impact of animal agriculture is greater 
when animals are raised on or receive feed ingredients from freshly deforested or 
converted land, because carbon can no longer be sequestered by trees. Therefore, 
for the past several years, we have been working with the WWF to understand 
and address sourcing of beef and soy from areas with high risk for deforestation. 
Through close collaboration with our direct and indirect suppliers on traceability, 
we estimate that 99% of our beef supply was sourced from origins of lower risk of 
tropical deforestation in 2020 with 87% coming from the U.S. and Canada.
As a result of this work, we received a score of B in our first disclosure to CDP Forests 
for our cattle products. Soy, which is a primary ingredient in our chicken feed, has 
a more complex supply chain. While our business is at least five steps removed 
from the soybean field, we continue to work across our supply chain to achieve 
greater levels of visibility and accountability. To share this work with others, we 
are developing a case study describing our work with WWF and overall supplier 
engagement. 
An additional source of emissions reduction will be the continued expansion of 
plant-based protein on our menus . We expect significant growth for Taco Bell’s 
plant-based beef alternative products in the U.S., Pizza Hut’s plant-based pepperoni 
and KFC’s chicken substitutes globally between now and 2030. As customers 
continue to choose these options over meat-based proteins, fewer animals will need 
to be raised for food, and their associated emissions will be avoided.FOREST STEWARDSHIP
Yum!’s commitment to addressing climate change by reducing deforestation 
goes beyond the sourcing of our animal products. In 2019, we endorsed 
the New York Declaration on Forests (NYDF) and the private sector goal of 
eliminating deforestation from the production of agriculture commodities such 
as beef, soy, palm oil and paper products. NYDF members have collectively 
committed to ending natural forest loss by 2030. Jon Hixson, Yum!’s chief 
sustainability officer & vice president of Global Government Affairs, is a member 
of the NYDF review panel, working with stakeholders across sectors to refresh 
and support this important commitment.FIELD TO FORK : The Yum! Soy Supply Chain
GREEN BUILDINGS 
In many cases, actions that reduce energy use, water consumption and waste at 
restaurants also save owners money. As Yum!’s business becomes increasingly 
franchised, we are helping franchisees reap the environmental and financial 
benefits of sustainability — and contribute to our progress on climate action. Our 
approach is generally to lead by example, providing a list of recommendations 
that franchisees can take to meet our sustainable standards, known as 
Blueline, and allowing franchisees to choose which measures to implement. 
Our corporate restaurants have historically served as testbeds for innovation, 
allowing us to pilot new equipment and approaches that could eventually be 
introduced across our system, such as adopting renewable energy. 
Increasingly, our brands and markets are taking action on their own and working 
closely with franchisees on areas for improvement. Pizza Hut International has 
developed a Green Building Playbook, based on Blueline guidelines, to improve 
sustainable building practices such as energy management systems that better 
manage energy and water use. Additionally, it's exploring opportunities to 
repurpose container units to build new restaurants in Africa and the Middle 
East to bring its delicious pizza closer to customers in a more sustainable way. 
Taco Bell is introducing Solar Stores to its franchise partners to incorporate 
renewable energy using solar panels to power exterior site lighting and all  
of its signs.
In 2019, we achieved our goal of sourcing 100% of palm oil used for cooking 
from responsibly managed sources, with third-party certification from the 
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). We are also making progress 
toward our goal of purchasing 100% of paper-based packaging  with fiber 
from responsibly managed forests and recycled sources. Our brands have made 
progress by embracing alternative materials, such as a bamboo fiber bucket that 
is now used to serve meals at KFC in Canada.SOYBEAN FARMER SOYBEAN PROCESSOR FEED MILL CHICKEN SUPPLIER YUM! RESTAURANT
In 2021, we announced that we will convert  
1,000  
RESTAURANTS
 to renewable energy by the end of the year.
In 2020, we successfully  
transitioned our corporate U.S.  
offices to 100% renewable energy.35 34
PLANETLimiting Antibiotic Use 
Our dedication to animal health and well-
being requires thoughtful, comprehensive 
health management programs that may 
necessitate the use of antibiotics to maintain 
or restore good animal health. We share 
concerns regarding the rising threat of 
antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and support 
One Health, a holistic and multi-sectoral long-
term effort to combat AMR by the United Nations World Health Organization 
(WHO), the Food and Agriculture Organization, the World Organisation for 
Animal Health and other key stakeholders.
Over the past several years, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell in the U.S. have met 
public commitments to reduce antibiotics important to human medicine in 
their U.S. poultry supply chains and have made new commitments to drive 
further progress. Pizza Hut U.S.’s original commitment applied only to chicken 
for its pizzas, and the brand is on track to remove these antibiotics from chicken 
used for wings by 2022. Taco Bell is working to reduce antibiotics used in 
human medicine by 25%  in its U.S. and Canada beef supply chain by 2025. The 
brand is engaging with internal and external stakeholders, including the U.S 
Roundtable for Sustainable Beef and International Consortium for Antimicrobial 
Stewardship in Agriculture (ICASA) and will share progress in 2022. Later in 
2021, we will publish a report covering the costs of antimicrobial resistance and 
how we plan to contribute to solutions to this pressing issue.
Taco Bell continues to reduce the number of packaging items in its portfolio 
and to design packaging that uses fewer materials. In 2021, the brand launched 
a collaboration with TerraCycle, a company that specializes in hard-to-recycle 
materials, to tackle recycling of its iconic hot sauce packets. The effort will be an 
industry first — no solution currently exists for recycling these packets, which 
are made of a flexible film. Details of a national U.S. recycling pilot program will 
be announced later in the year. 
KFC Australia has been a member of the Australian Packaging Covenant 
Organization (APCO) for more than 10 years. As part of its membership, the 
brand uses APCO’s online packaging evaluation tool to determine how to 
improve recyclability and manage packaging’s environmental impact, and 
also extended its partnership to support the Australian Recycling Label, a 
program endorsed by all Australian governments to help make recycling easier. 
The brand is also exploring waste reduction opportunities that go beyond 
packaging, including options for diverting organic waste for use as compost or 
animal feed. Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction 
At Yum!, we are committed to taking a more circular approach to sustainable 
packaging and waste, which starts with us first reducing, and then mindfully 
reusing or recycling, the waste generated at our restaurants. Reducing waste 
from packaging, as well as operational waste including cardboard, food and 
used cooking oil, are both Tier One material issues for our business. Our brands 
are working to develop packaging that can be diverted from landfills through 
recycling or composting, reducing food waste and donating surplus food to 
people in need, and recycling used cooking oil into biodiesel or energy. 
At the Yum! corporate and brand levels, we have set a number of packaging and 
waste goals:
2002 2003 2016 2017
2018 2018 2018
2019 2020 2021
2025Divert 50% of back-of-house operational waste, measured by 
weight, generated in our U.S. restaurants 
2022Remove Styrofoam and expanded polystyrene from packaging 
at all KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell locations globally
2022Purchase 100% of our paper-based packaging with fiber from 
responsibly managed forests and recycled sources by the end 
of 2022
2025KFC will make all plastic-based, consumer-facing packaging 
recoverable or reusable globally
2025Taco Bell will make all its consumer-facing packaging recyclable, 
compostable or reusable, eliminate any PFAS, phthalates and 
BPA from its packaging, and add recycling and/or composting 
bins to restaurants globally where infrastructure permits
2030Reduce food loss waste 50% by 2030 in accordance with U.S. 
Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions
Animal Welfare
We believe we have a responsibility to be a good steward of the animals raised 
for food throughout our supply chain. Our commitment to animal health and 
well-being is steadfast and guided by our holistic, science-based Sustainable 
Animal Protein Principles. Additionally, we support the Five Freedoms for all 
animals used for food. 
In 2020, KFC announced new global chicken key welfare indicators (KWIs) as 
a critical next step on its animal welfare journey. The KWIs address mobility 
while chickens are raised, overall chicken health, minimization of medical 
interventions, chicken mortality and mental and physical stress. These KWIs will 
serve as the foundation for animal welfare metrics across our company. 
In 2020, KFC U.K. & Ireland published its first annual welfare progress report, 
described as an honest and open review of its poultry supply chain. The report 
outlines the seven steps of the brand’s audit process and captures key data, 
which KFC U.K. & Ireland will use to benchmark progress and hold itself and its 
suppliers accountable.
In 2021, Taco Bell U.K. adopted the Better Chicken Commitment for the fresh, 
frozen and processed chicken used throughout its U.K. supply chain and plans 
to meet all applicable standards by the end of 2026. Pizza Hut International is 
also conducting a survey of suppliers of its most important pizza ingredients, 
including beef, pork and cheese to further understand animal welfare practices 
across its supply chain.
Water 
We have a long history of working to reduce water 
consumption, and we continue to focus our efforts 
on areas of high water stress. In 2019, we used 
the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas to complete 
an enterprise-wide water risk assessment of our 
50,000  restaurant locations worldwide. The Atlas 
uses a robust, peer-reviewed methodology and 
the best available data to create customizable 
global maps of water risk. The assessment 
identified more than 8,000 restaurants located 
in high-risk water basins around the world and is 
helping to inform our water strategy for 2030 and 
beyond. 
Strategies for reducing water use are included in our Blueline documentation. 
Our corporate- and franchise-owned restaurants continue to lower their 
water usage in a number of ways. High-efficiency and low-flow equipment in 
restaurant kitchens and bathrooms helps restaurants conserve water and save 
money. Irrigation system improvements, such as sensors that prevent irrigation 
when it is raining, and the addition of local and drought-tolerant plant species, 
decrease the need for irrigation water.
Also in 2021, we joined How2Recycle, the leading recycling labeling system 
in the U.S. and Canada. We will leverage How2Recycle’s standardized labeling 
system on our consumer-facing packaging to provide clear instructions on how 
to recycle more and recycle better.
At Yum!, we are committed to being a leader in the reduction of food waste. 
We are a member of the U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions, a group 
of organizations across the food value chain that have committed to reducing 
food loss and waste in their U.S. operations by 2030, as well as the Food Waste 
Reduction Alliance, the Waste & Resources Action Programme and the ReFED 
advisory council. Most of the food waste we divert is donated to nonprofits 
through the Harvest  program. Through this program, Yum! and our franchisees 
have donated over 209 million  pounds of food to more than 5,000 charity 
partners since 1992. Beyond food donation, our brands are exploring other 
innovative ways to reduce wasted food. KFC U.K. is piloting smart equipment 
that predicts customer traffic throughout the day, ensuring that no more food is 
prepared than necessary. 
OUR ANIMAL WELFARE JOURNEYOur animal welfare journey began nearly 20 years ago with the creation of our first animal welfare program. Since then, at Yum!, we’ve 
continued to elevate our animal welfare practices across our global footprint, enabling markets to have flexibility to evolve based on customer 
preferences, cultural needs and expectations and local regulations. We remain committed to making progress and sharing our work along the 
way. Here are some key milestones we’ve already made on our animal welfare journey:
We are committed to the Five 
Freedoms  in guiding our overall 
approach to animal welfare through 
the supply chain. 
1. Freedom from hunger and thirst
2. Freedom from discomfort
3. Freedom from pain, injury  
or disease
4. Freedom to express  
normal behavior
5. Freedom from fear and distressEstablished first animal 
welfare program
Taco Bell committed to 
reduce antibiotics important 
to human health in U.S. and 
Canada beef supply chain by 
25% by 2025KFC announced global 
chicken KWIsCreated Animal Welfare 
Advisory Council
Pizza Hut U.S. committed to 
antibiotic-free chicken wings 
by 2022
We will continue to collect data and work 
with suppliers and industry partners to 
make progress across the global egg 
supply chain and share annual progress 
updates as a part of our sustainability 
disclosures. Taco Bell U.S. moved to 
100% cage-free eggs
Published global Animal Welfare 
Policy based on the Five Freedoms 
of Animal WelfarePublished Sustainable 
Animal Protein Principles
KFC U.S. met its commitment to 
remove antibiotics important to human 
medicine from its poultry supply
Five Freedoms37
 36 37
Goal Status
Create a culture of 
engagement that 
attracts, retains and 
grows the best people 
and creates high 
performance in our 
restaurantsMeasure our employee engagementIn 2020, the health and well-being of our employees was our number one priority. We 
focused on providing support for physical and mental health, family care and work-life 
balance opposed to conducting an overarching employee engagement survey.
Provide our employees with training and 
development that builds world-class leaders 
and business resultsAlmost 8,000 above-restaurant employees participated in training programs in 2020 
including  Leading with Heart, our leadership development program, and Inclusive 
Leadership, our unconscious bias program, as well as our compliance policies.  At the 
restaurant level, over 6 million hours of operational training were completed. Culture  
& Talent
Hold our employees, 
franchisees and 
suppliers to the highest 
standards of professional 
and ethical conductRemain committed to our Global 
Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of 
Conduct, which addresses guidelines 
for working conditions consistent 
with frameworks such as those of the 
International Labour Organization and 
the United Nations Guiding Principles 
on Human Rights• Expanded Yum!’s Human Rights & Supply Chain policy to further align with 
frameworks such as the ILO and the United Nations Guiding Principles on  
Human Rights
• Established a global membership with Sedex, a leading ethical trade membership 
organization that works with businesses to improve working conditions in global 
supply chains, to strengthen our existing supply chain auditing capabilities with 
focus on human rights and labor practices. Additionally, pledged to have all 
suppliers globally on the Sedex platform by 2023. 
• KFC Australia published its first Modern Slavery Statement in 2020, joining the 
U.K., who had already done so.
• Over 23,000 employees received training on the Global Code of ConductEthics &  
Human RightsBuild an inclusive 
culture among our 
employees, franchisees, 
suppliers and partners 
to reflect the diversity 
of our customers and 
communitiesContinue building upon ongoing inclusion 
efforts to help create workplace environments 
where all people can be successful• In 2020, Pizza Hut U.S. appointed its first chief equity officer and KFC U.S. named 
its first director of Equity & Inclusion. Additionally, Taco Bell launched the Equity, 
Inclusion & Belonging Guiding Coalition. 
• We also continued expanding Employee Resource Groups across campuses globally 
and hosted regular webcasts to facilitate dialogue and awareness on how to build 
an inclusive culture.  
• In 2021, Yum! conducted an equity, inclusion and belonging assessment for above-
restaurant leaders across all brands in the U.S. 
Significantly increase the number of women 
in senior leadership globally and achieve 
gender parity in leadership globally by 2030 in 
alignment with Paradigm for Parity®In 2020, 47% of global leadership roles were held by women,  
and about 55% of our global workforce was comprised of women.
Significantly 
increase diverse 
representation of 
people of color in the 
U.S. among corporate 
employees• In 2020, we continued our partnership with CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion and 
the Hispanic Promise 
• In 2021, we joined the OneTen coalition, a group of U.S. businesses leading a bold 
initiative to create career mobility and advancement opportunities for 1 million 
Black individuals in the U.S. over the next 10 years
Continue rolling out Inclusive Leadership 
training and anti-racism training across our 
system, including company-owned and 
franchise restaurants• Continued expanding our Inclusive Leadership training to employees and 
franchisees around the world, part of our broader companywide training program 
efforts where nearly 8,000 above-restaurant employees participated holistically  
in 2020
• Started to develop an online module of the program to help provide more access to 
the curriculumEquity, Inclusion & Belonging
Advance our social 
purpose to fight 
inequality globally 
and support initiatives 
related to hunger relief, 
literacy and youth 
education, as well as 
nonprofits near our 
hometown headquartersDonate food, funds, 
time and talent to 
help local and global 
communities• Our global organization donated $70 million in 2020, supporting brand efforts 
such as the KFC Foundation’s charitable assistance programs, Pizza Hut’s BOOK IT! 
Program and the Taco Bell Foundation’s Live Más Scholarship.
• Throughout 2020, the Yum! Foundation donated $11.5 million in COVID-19 
relief to global food banks, in community aid and for employee medical relief.
• We also donated 6.67 million pounds of food through our Harvest program.
Fight inequality through our Unlocking 
Opportunity Initiative (UOI) by investing  
$100 million over five years for employees  
and communities around the world • In 2020, we launched our UOI framework focused on equity and inclusion, 
education and entrepreneurship, and partnered with our brands to create social 
purpose programs. Additionally, we established governance for our UOI programs 
and successfully engaged with our global markets.Social Purpose &  
Community ImpactGoal Status
Maintain the safest, 
highest-quality food 
supply and preparation 
in the industryThrough food safety audits, we provide restaurant team 
member training on employee health, product handling, 
ingredient and product management and prevention of 
cross-contamination.Since 2016, Yum! has conducted more than  
467,500 restaurant food safety audits.
Build on Yum! supplier audit track record and assess 
100% of Tier 1 suppliers annually by 2021In 2020, 93% of Tier 1 suppliers received an audit, on 
track to meet our target of 100%. Food Safety
Be the preferred 
restaurant for consumers 
seeking delicious, 
balanced options 
by offering more 
choice and nutritional 
improvements to  
our foodOffer lower-calorie menu options across main dishes, 
combos and sides, consistent with Yum!’s global nutrition 
standards that align with the World Health Organization and 
the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, to continue to improve 
our food’s nutrition. By 2030, we intend to represent 50% 
of menu food offerings to be consistent with Yum! global 
nutrition criteria for meal options.Together, the brands reported that 
they are 72% of the way to meeting 
the goal.    
Provide consumers with convenient access to food 
information regarding menu labeling and allergensContinue publishing online nutrition calculators for the brands’ U.S. 
menus and providing consumers with convenient access to allergen and 
nutrition information. Details can be accessed here:
• KFC
• Pizza Hut
• Taco Bell
• The Habit Burger Grill
Offer plant-forward product innovation to meet the lifestyle 
choices of consumers• Taco Bell's vegetarian offerings represent more than 14% of sales.
• Pizza Hut has pilot programs offering plant-based cheeses and 
toppings in 10 countries.
• In seven countries, consumers have helped KFC explore plant-based 
options, while in Canada and the U.K., some restaurants have plant-
based sandwiches on their permanent menus.
• A vast majority of U.S.-based Habit Burger Grill restaurants feature 
a vegan Veggie Burger and sides including Sweet Potato Fries and 
Tempura Green Beans.
Continue clean labels efforts to remove artificial colors, 
artificial flavors and partially hydrogenated oils (PHOs) from 
core food ingredients globally by 2025• Removed 94% of artificial coloring 
• Removed 86% of artificial flavors
• Removed 95% of PHOs
Building on a sodium reduction of 15% on average across 
its menu since 2008, Taco Bell U.S. is targeting an additional 
10% reduction by 2025.On average, Taco Bell has reduced sodium 
across its menu items by 22% since 2008 with 
a target of 25% by 2025.Balanced Choices
Promote transparency 
about our food through 
responsible labeling 
and advertising  
practices in our 
restaurants and beyondLimit marketing communications to children under 12 We follow U.S. and international guidelines to avoid marketing  
to children.Responsible 
MarketingFOOD  2020 Performance Summary PEOPLE 2020 Performance Summary39 38
PLANET  2020 Performance Summary GRI INDEX
GRI Standards 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Organizational profile 
102-1 Name of the organization Yum! Inc.
2020 Form 10-K, Cover Page
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Yum! does not intentionally sell items that are banned in individual markets.
2020 Form 10-K, pg. 3
102-3 Location of headquarters Louisville, Kentucky
2020 Form 10-K, Cover Page
102-4 Location of operations As of December 31, 2020, there were 50,535 restaurants in 155 countries and territories, 98% of 
which are franchised.
2020 Form 10-K, pg. 3
Yum!, Inc. Historical Financial Summary
102-5 Ownership and legal form Publicly traded company
2020 Form 10-K, Cover Page
102-6 Markets served As of December 31, 2020, there were 50,535 restaurants in 155 countries and territories, 98% of 
which are franchised.
2020 Form 10-K, pg. 3
102-7 Scale of the organization Total Number of Employees: 2020 Form 10-K, pg. 7
Total Number of Operations: 2020 Form 10-K, pg. 3
Net Revenues: 2020 Form 10-K, pg. 29
Quality of Products or Services Provided: 2020 Form 10-K, pgs. 3-7
102-8 Information on employees and other 
workersWorkforce Diversity Report  
Total Number of Employees: 2020 Form 10-K, pg. 7
102-9 Supply chain 2020 Form 10-K, pgs. 5-6
102-10 Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chainOn March 18, 2020, we completed the acquisition of The Habit Burger Grill, whose operations are 
included in this reporting cycle.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Yum! does not have an official policy as it pertains to the precautionary principle, but we do assess 
risks across our organization.
Citizenship > Risk & Issue Management, pg. 10
2020 Form 10-K, pgs. 9-24
102-12 External initiatives Citizenship > Stakeholder Engagement
102-13 Membership of associations Citizenship > Stakeholder Engagement
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Citizenship > A Message from David Gibbs
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Citizenship > A Message From David Gibbs; Evolving Our Recipe for Growth and Good; ESG 
Strategy & Leadership >  Materiality, pgs. 7-9
CDP Climate Change 2021 Response
CDP Water Security 2021 Response
CDP Forests 2021 ResponseThe 2020 Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report is prepared according to Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards 
Core option. GRI is the most widely recognized framework for sustainability reporting.Goal Status
Design, build and 
operate restaurants to 
be measurably more 
sustainable using green 
building standards 
to drive reductions in 
energy consumption, 
water use, greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions 
and wasteIn line with our approved science-based targets, cut GHG 
emissions generated by:
• Company restaurants and offices (scope 1 and 2) 46% below 
2019 levels by 2030
• Franchisee restaurants (scope 3) 46% below 2019 levels by 
2030 on a per-restaurant basis for franchisees• In 2020, we achieved our goal of reducing average restaurant energy and 
GHG emissions with an intensity reduction of 11% since our 2018 baseline 
was established. 
• In 2020, our restaurants avoided the release of 1,286,183 MTCO2e, the 
equivalent of the annual emissions of nearly 280,000 passenger vehicles 
driven for a year.
Move 1,000 restaurants around  
the world to renewable energy  
by the end of 2021• In 2020, we achieved our goal to move all of our U.S. corporate offices to 
renewable energy by purchasing renewable energy credits and entering into 
a power purchasing agreement. Currently, over 30% of our electricity for all 
operations is powered by renewable sources from grid sources. 
• Market examples include KFC Australia with 15 corporate restaurants using 
solar power and Taco Bell U.S. introducing Solar Stores to its franchisees.
Reduce average restaurant water 
consumption by 10%, from our 2018 
baseline, by the end of 2025 Our water consumption on a per-restaurant basis decreased 9% in 2020 from 
the year prior but remains higher than 2018 due to expanded reporting and 
more usage.
Divert 50% of back-of-house operational 
waste, measured by weight, generated in 
our U.S. restaurants by the end of  2025• In 2020, we estimate that 912,951 tons of solid material was removed from 
our U.S. restaurants, and we diverted 24% of that waste.
• Taco Bell will add recycling and/or composting bins to restaurants where 
infrastructure permits.
Reduce food loss waste 50% by 2030 in accordance  
with U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 ChampionsYum! and our franchisees donated 6.67 million pounds of food in 2020, 
with 29 countries participating. Green Buildings
Engage in building 
a responsible supply 
chain that protects 
forests, respects 
human rights, supports 
sustainable sourcing 
and enables good 
stewardshipIn line with our approved science-based targets, cut GHG 
emissions generated by suppliers (scope 3) 46% below 
2019 levels by 2030 on per-metric ton basis of beef, 
poultry, dairy and packaging procuredIn 2021, we set new, approved science-based targets.
Endorsed the New York Declaration on Forests (NYDF) and 
the private sector goal of eliminating deforestation from 
the production of agriculture commodities such as palm 
oil, soy, paper and beef products no later than 2020 and 
striving to end natural forest loss by 2030. As part of this 
work, we will purchase 100% of our paper-based packaging 
with fiber from responsibly managed forests and recycled 
sources by the end of 2022.• In 2020, 100% of Brazilian feed mills in our supply chain were audited 
as compliant in aligning with the Amazon Soy Moratorium to help protect 
tropical forests.
• In 2020, an estimated 81% of fiber came from certified forests or 
recycled sources. Taco Bell has reached 98%.
• In 2020, 100% of palm oil used for cooking was certified sustainable 
by the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil. We continue to look for 
opportunities to reduce the environmental footprint of our palm  
oil use.
• 99% of reported beef supply was sourced from origins of lower risk of 
tropical deforestation in 2020 with 87% from the U.S. and Canada.
By 2025, KFC plastic-based, consumer-facing packaging 
will be recoverable or reusable globally. By 2025, Taco Bell 
consumer-facing packaging will be recyclable, compostable 
or reusable globally with chemical additives of concern 
removed. As intermediate steps, at Yum!, we will remove 
Styrofoam and expanded polystyrene from all packaging 
by 2022.• Expanded polystyrene, of which Styrofoam is a component, consists of 
under 1% of the reported plastic used by our system.
• Approximately 11% of resins come from recycled sources, 9% pre-
consumer and 2% post-consumer. We continue to refine and improve 
our data collection process.
• Approximately 5% of KFC plastic and 48% of Taco Bell plastic is 
recyclable (defined as resin types 1 and 2).
Continue engaging with beef, dairy and poultry suppliers 
to gather robust data on animal welfare and sustainable 
production systems as well as to educate them on the Five 
Freedoms and our Sustainable Animal Protein Principles• KFC introduced new global chicken KWIs as a key step on its animal  
welfare journey.
• Taco Bell U.S. continues to source 100% cage-free eggs and egg ingredients 
in the U.S. and Canada.
Taco Bell will reduce use of antibiotics important to human 
medicine in its U.S. and Canada beef supply chain by 25% 
by 2025, while Pizza Hut U.S. will remove them in chicken 
used for wings by 2022.• KFC, Pizza Hut (chicken for its pizzas) and Taco Bell in the U.S. have met public 
commitments to remove antibiotics important to human medicine from our 
U.S. poultry supply. Taco Bell will share progress on its beef goal in 2022.
• Yum! is undertaking a study evaluating the costs of antimicrobial resistance 
and how we plan to contribute to solutions to this pressing issue.Supply Chain41 40
GRI INDEX
GRI INDEX
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 
of behavior Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethicsGlobal Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Citizenship > Corporate Governance, ESG Strategy & Leadership, pg. 8
2021 Proxy Statement, pgs. 27-28
Yum! ESG Governance & Reporting Approach
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Approach > Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 11 
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements As of December 31, 2020, approximately 4.9% of employees reported to be represented by an 
independent trade union or covered by collective bargaining agreements.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Citizenship > Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 11
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Citizenship > Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 11
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Citizenship > Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 11
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements 2020 Form 10-K, pg. 3
102-46 Defining report content and topic 
Boundaries Citizenship > Materiality, pg. 9
102-47 List of material topics Citizenship > Materiality, pg. 9
102-48 Restatements of information Yum! has no restatements of information in this reporting cycle.
102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report, pg. 54
102-50 Reporting period About This Report, pg. 54
102-51 Date of most recent report Citizenship > Materiality, pg. 9
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 
report Please send comments or questions about this report to citizenship@yum.com.
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 
GRI StandardsAbout This Report, pg. 54
102-55 GRI content index 2020 GRI Index, pgs. 39-49
102-56 External assurance Our GHG Emissions and Water Withdrawal for the year ending December 31, 2020 has been 
verified by an independent third-party accountant to be presented in accordance with the WRI/ 
WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition 
for Scope 1 and 3 and the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Guidance; an amendment 
to the GHG protocol Corporate Standard and the Water Withdrawal using attestation standards 
established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). View a copy of the 
report. We do not currently seek external assurance for our report.
GRI 200: ECONOMIC
GRI 201: Economic Performance 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary2020 Form 10-K
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
201-1 Direct economic value generated and 
distributed2020 Form 10-K, pg. 60
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeCDP Climate Change 2021 Response
CDP Water Security 2021 Response
CDP Forests 2021 ResponseGRI 205: Anti-corruption
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum!’s success is built on the integrity and high ethical standards of our employees. Our Global 
Code of Conduct is the foundation for the way that we conduct ourselves and do business 
throughout the world. Every year, our board of directors and Yum!’s 2,000 most senior employees 
must certify in writing that they have read and understand the code and compile a conflicts of 
interest questionnaire. The code is available online in seven languages.
People > Ethics & Human Rights, pg. 21
Yum! Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 
actions takenThere were no confirmed incidents of corruption during 2020.
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum! Global Code of Conduct
2020 Form 10-K, pg. 6
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust and monopoly 
practicesNo legal actions were taken for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust or monopoly practices  
during 2020.
GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 301: Materials
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum!’s sustainable sourcing policies seek to encourage the production of sustainable raw 
materials that support the environment and the communities that supply them. We are focused on 
eliminating deforestation in our global supply chains through key commodities of palm oil, paper, 
beef and soy, as well as encouraging the more responsible use and production of plastics to benefit 
the planet.
Planet > Planet  Dashboard; Recipe Notes: A Packaging Strategy Based on Partnership; Forest 
Stewardship; Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction, pgs. 29-34
CDP Forests 2021 Response
Global Forest Stewardship Policy
Palm Oil Policy
Paper-based Packaging Sourcing Policy
Sustainable Packaging Policy103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
301-2 Recycled input materials used As part of our approach to sustainable materials, we encourage the use of recycled sources of 
material in packaging and servicewares as feasible and as allowed by local regulations. Most of 
these are either fiber or plastic-based and a directional estimate of used recycled input materials 
is provided below for each category. We collect this data as part of our annual sustainability survey 
and will continue to refine our data collection process. 
Fiber from recycled sources: 34% 
Plastic resins from recycled sources: 9%
Planet > Forest Stewardship, pg. 33
GRI 302: Energy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPlanet > Climate Action, pgs. 31-32 
CDP Climate Change, 2021 Response
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach43 42
GRI INDEX302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organizationEnergy 
Consumption 
from Renewable 
Sources Energy 
Consumption from 
Non-Renewable 
SourcesTotal Energy 
Consumption 
Consumption of Fuel (MWh) - 166,456 166,456
Consumption of purchased or 
acquired electricity (MWh)96,308 182,274 278,582
Consumption of purchased or 
acquired heat (MWh)- 131 131
Consumption of purchased or 
acquired steam (MWh)- - -
Consumption of purchased or 
acquired cooling (MWh)- - -
Consumption of self-generated non-
fuel renewable energy (MWh)521 - 521
Total energy consumption (MWh) 96,829 348,861 445,690
Total energy consumption (GJ) 348,584.4 1,255,899.6 1,604,484.0
For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to 
our CDP Climate Change 2020 Response.
For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our 
CDP Climate Change 2021 Response.
Purchased total energy consumption by country within the organization is as follows:
Consumption of 
Electricity Consumption of FuelTotal Energy 
Consumption
Country MWh MWh MWh
Australia 19,996 1,823 21,819
Canada 725 394 1,119
France 321 174 494
Germany 680 369 1,049
India 16,698 7,162 23,861
Italy 92 50 142
Netherlands 259 141 400
Russian Federation 17,162 5,628 22,920
Singapore 462 251 712
South Africa 14,120 431 14,551
Spain 121 66 186
United Arab Emirates 275 149 425
United Kingdom 22,143 7, 36 4 29,507
U.S. 185,378 142,372 327,749
Vietnam 151 82 233
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 
organizationTotal energy consumption for franchise restaurants is estimated to be 54,564,714 GJ. This includes 
energy consumption by the Habit Burger for the first time. For information regarding standards, 
methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Climate Change 2021 Response.
302-3 Energy intensity Based on the total energy consumed for company-owned and franchise restaurants (including 
company offices), the energy intensity ratio is 1,117.5 GJ/restaurant. This includes all types of 
energy that we use.
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption The anticipated annual quantity of reductions in energy consumption that will be achieved as 
a result of conservation and efficiency measures is 741,820 GJ. This includes company-owned 
and franchise restaurants and includes all types of energy that we use. This estimation does not 
include materialized savings realized from activities contributing to savings from prior years. For 
information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP 
Climate Change 2021 Response
GRI 303: Water and Effluents
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPlanet > Planet Dashboard > Water; Climate Action > Green Buildings; Water, pgs. 29-34
CDP Water Security 2021 Response
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach303-1 Interactions with water as a shared 
resourcePlanet > Climate Action > Green Buildings; Water, pgs. 29-34
CDP Water Security 2021 Response
303-2 Management of water discharge-related 
impactsCDP Water Security 2021 Response
303-3 Water withdrawal Total company withdrawals for the reporting year are estimated to be 2,575.6 ML. This includes 
withdrawls by the Habit Burger for the first time as well as corporate offices. All material 
withdrawals are from freshwater, third-party systems. Total water withdrawal for company locations 
located in water-stressed areas, as defined by WRI Aqueduct, is estimated to be 320.8 ML. For 
information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations refer to our CDP 
Water Security 2021 Response.
303-4 Water discharge Total company discharges for company locations for the reporting year are estimated to be 
2,189.2 ML. Material discharges to third-party water systems are estimated to be 1,287.8 ML and 
discharges to groundwater are 901.4 ML. Total water discharges for company locations located in 
water-stressed areas, as defined by WRI Aqueduct, are estimated to be 160.4 ML to third-party 
water systems and 112.3 ML to groundwater. Groundwater discharges are for irrigation. Discharges 
are fresh water. We seek to follow all local laws and regulations for frequency of monitoring, 
should it be required. Restaurants are designed to produce discharges of an acceptable quality 
for treatment by municipal facilities. Municipalities test discharge according to their regulations. 
Adherence to local laws is typically controlled by regulatory permits. The organization was not 
subject to any material penalties relating to wastewater regulations in the reporting year. For 
information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP 
Water Security 2021 Response.
303-5 Water consumption Total company water consumption for the reporting year is estimated to be 386.3 ML. Total 
consumption for company locations in water-stressed areas, as defined by WRI Aqueduct, is 
estimated to be 48.1 ML. For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and 
calculations, refer to our CDP Water Security 2021 Response.
GRI 305: Emissions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPlanet > Climate Action, pgs. 31-33
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Gross Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions: 38,907 MT CO2e (location based), CDP Climate Change 2021 
Response
GHG emissions include four of the seven greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon 
dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Perfluorocarbons 
(PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions are not included in our 
reporting, as we do not use coolants that generate these greenhouse gases. Biogenic carbon is not 
relevant to our Scope 1 GHG emissions. Source emission factors can be viewed in our Statement 
of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal. For information regarding standards, 
methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Climate Change 2021 Response.
Location Based Scope 1 emissions by country are as follows:
Country Scope 1
Australia 526
Canada 71
France 31
Germany 66
India 1,771
Italy 9
Netherlands 25
Russian Federation 1,214
Singapore 45
South Africa 2,146
Spain 12
United Arab Emirates 27
United Kingdom 1,714
U.S. 31,235
Vietnam 1545 44
GRI INDEX305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Gross Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: 128,129 MT CO2e (location based), CDP Climate Change 
2021 Response
Gross Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: 130,953 MT CO2e (market based), CDP Climate Change 
2021 Response
GHG emissions include four of the seven greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon 
dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), Perfluorocarbons 
(PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions have been omitted from 
our Scope 2 reporting, as we do not generate material quantities of these greenhouse gases. Per 
the GHG Protocol, biogenic emissions are omitted since grid factors are used. Source emission 
factors can be viewed in our Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal. For 
information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP 
Climate Change 2021 Response.
Location Based Scope 2 emissions by country are as follows:
Country Scope 2
Australia 14,237
Canada 96
France 18
Germany 273
India 12,555
Italy 28
Netherlands 108
Russian Federation 6,125
Singapore 180
South Africa 12,648
Spain 31
United Arab Emirates 157
United Kingdom 5,080
U.S. 76,524
Vietnam 69
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions: 36,991096 MT CO2e, CDP Climate Change 2021 Response
This total is comprised of the applicable category totals as follows:
• Purchased Goods and Services (Food, Cooking Oil, Plastic Service Wares, Fiber-Based 
Packaging): 27,351,971 MT CO2e
• Franchisees (Buildings Scope 1 and 2): 6,676,155 MT CO2e
• Upstream Transportation and Distribution: 1,188,304 MT CO2e
• Waste Generated in Operations: 914,506 MT CO2e
• Downstream Transportation and Distribution: 791,796 MT CO2e
• End of Life Treatment of Sold Products: 66,145 MT CO2e
• Business Travel:  2,519 MT CO2e
GHG emissions include four of the seven greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon 
dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Perfluorocarbons 
(PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions have been omitted from 
our reporting, as we do not generate material quantities of these greenhouse gases. Biogenic 
emissions, included in the totals above, resulting from Waste Generated in Operations and 
End of Life Treatment, are estimated at 978,195 MT. Source emission factors can be viewed in 
our Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal. For information regarding 
standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Climate Change 2021 
Response .
305-4 GHG emissions intensity GHG emissions intensity: 0.000030 MT CO2e per unit total revenue for Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
including office emissions.
GHG emissions intensity: 127 MT CO2e per restaurant (based on average restaurant count) for 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, not including offices. If office emissions are included in the intensity 
calculation GHG emission intensity is 148 MT CO2e per restaurant.
For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our 
CDP Climate Change 2021 Response.
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions The anticipated annual quantity of reductions in GHG emissions that will be achieved as a result of 
conservation and efficiency measures implemented during the reporting year was 1,247,396 MT 
CO2e. This includes equity and franchise restaurants and includes all resulting gases. This estimate 
does not include materialized savings realized from activities contributing to savings from prior 
years. For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to 
our CDP Climate Change 2021 Response.305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 
(ODS)We do not produce ozone depleting substances (ODS). However, we do use refrigeration and air 
conditioning that contains ODS, and while the equipment is operating according to manufacturer 
specifications, a small amount of leakage does occur. We estimate the following:
• Scope 1 HFC: 5,059 MT
• Scope 2 HFC: not applicable
• Scope 3 HFC (franchise restaurants): 343,111 MT
Source emission factors can be viewed in our Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water 
Withdrawal.
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides 
(SOX), and other significant air emissionsThe release of nitrous oxide and methane are calculated and included in our total MT CO2e 
calculations. The quantities of these gases are as follows:
• Scope 1 CH4: 17 MT
• Scope 2 CH4: 77 MT
• Scope 3 CH4: 4,237 MT
• Scope 1 N2O: 17 MT
• Scope 2 N2O: 505 MT
• Scope 3 N2O: 23,724 MT
Perfluorocarbons (PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions 
are not included in our reporting, as we do not knowingly generate material quantities of these 
greenhouse gases. Source emission factors can be viewed in our Statement of Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions and Water Withdrawal.
GRI 306: Waste
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPlanet > Planet Dashboard; Recipe Notes: A Packaging Strategy Based on Partnership; Sustainable 
Packaging & Waste Reduction, pgs. 29-34
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-
related impactsPlanet > Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction, pg. 34
306-2 Management of significant waste-related 
impactsPlanet > Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction, pg. 34
306-3 Waste generated The collection of data regarding waste is challenging, and estimates provided are based on sample 
data submitted by the Australia, France, Russia, United Kingdom, and U.S. business units and 
extrapolated, on a per-restaurant average basis, to provide a global view. The total weight of non-
hazardous waste removed from restaurants, both company-owned and franchise, is an estimated 
2,599,339 MT. We do not generate material quantities of hazardous waste. It does not account for 
products and packaging intended for consumer consumption outside of the restaurants. Although 
there is variation between brands and geographic localities, our analysis yields the following order of 
magnitude divisions, based on percentages, of generated waste from within restaurants. Variations 
in totals are expected year-over-year as refinement of methodology occurs. 
• Organic waste: 1,039,736 MT
• Corrugated cardboard: 389,901 MT
• Paper packaging and other paper: 389,901 MT
• Mixed plastics: 389,901 MT
• Used cooking oil: 259,934MT
• Other: 129,967 MT
Planet > Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction, pg. 34
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal The collection of data regarding waste diverted from disposal is challenging, and estimates are 
limited to data samples submitted by the Australia, France, Russia, United Kingdom, and U.S. 
business units. This data has not been extrapolated due to the extreme variation in global diversion 
infrastructure. The total weight of non-hazardous waste diverted in those markets is estimated to 
be 397,154 MT. This does not include diverted waste from other markets, although it is known to 
occur. We do not generate material quantities of hazardous waste. It does not account for products 
and packaging intended for consumer consumption outside of the restaurants. The recovery 
options include the following:
• Solid Waste Recycling: 369,268 MT
• Biofuel and/or animal feed: 26,045 MT
• Food donation (in markets listed above): 1,818 MT
Planet > Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction, pg. 3447 46
GRI INDEXGRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPlanet > Supply Chain, pg. 33
Yum! Global Forest Stewardship Policy
Yum! Palm Oil Policy
Yum! Paper-Based Packaging Sourcing Policy
CDP Forests, 2021 Response103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions takenPlanet > Forest Stewardship, pg. 33
CDP Forests, 2021 Response
GRI 400: SOCIAL
GRI 401: Employment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPeople, pgs. 13-21
Food > Food Safety, pg. 25
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or 
part-time employeesYum! and our franchisees offer restaurant employees a range of medical benefits, childcare 
discounts, educational scholarships and tuition reimbursement, and gym discounts, as well as 
training and development opportunities. Our corporate above-restaurant employees benefit 
from a total rewards package that includes wellness programs, flexible working hours, a generous 
401(k) match and more. Most of the employee programs and benefits are applicable in the U.S. 
Internationally, benefits are tailored by market and role.
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum! is committed to maintaining a work environment that respects and supports human rights 
around the world. Our ethics and compliance program, based on our Global Code of Conduct, 
demands the highest ethical standards in all of our operations globally. This policy applies to all 
directors, officers and employees of Yum!, as well as to our international agents, consultants, joint 
venture partners and any other third-party representatives acting on our behalf. We respect the 
right of all employees to associate or not to associate with any group, as permitted by applicable 
laws and regulations. We require compliance with all local labor laws in every market where we 
operate. We have and will continue to partner with various stakeholders to collect input and help 
guide our human rights efforts. 
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Policy 
Global Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 
operational changes We require our franchisees to fully comply with applicable national and/or local legal requirements 
for minimum notice periods regarding significant operational changes.
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryIt is Yum!’s policy to maintain a professional, safe work environment. Suppliers are also expected to 
provide their employees with safe and healthy working conditions.
Food > Food Safety, pg. 25 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management systemFood > Food Safety, pg. 25 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 
and incident investigationFood > Food Safety, pg. 25 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 
403-3 Occupational health services Food > Food Safety, pg. 25 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health 
and safetyFood > Food Safety, pg. 25 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 403-5 Worker training on occupational health 
and safetyFood > Food Safety, pg. 25 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 
403-6 Promotion of worker health See response to GRI 401-2, pg. 46 
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked 
by business relationships Food > Food Safety, pg. 25 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational 
health and safety management systemAll company restaurants are governed by safety standards and employees undertake training on 
those standards.
GRI 404: Training and Education
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryWe sustain our winning culture by recruiting the best people and developing their potential. No 
matter where employees are within our organization or in their careers, continuing development 
is an important focus. We are proud to help restaurant employees develop skills and capabilities 
on the job, further their education and build successful careers. In addition to providing corporate 
employees with robust development plans, programs and learning platforms, we invest in them by 
providing meaningful roles and challenging opportunities.
People > Education, pg. 16103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programsPeople > Education, pg. 16
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryCitizenship >  Board Diversity, pg. 8
People > Equity & Inclusion, pgs. 15-16
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 
employeesGender Percent Female Percent Male Not Specified
Board of Directors 42% 58% 0
Executive  49% 51% 0
Leadership 32% 68% 0
Management 
(Restaurant and Above 
Restaurant)49% 50% 1%
Non-Management 
(Above Restaurant)55% 44% 1%
Non-Management 
(Restaurant) 55% 41% 4%
Age Group Percent Under 30 Percent 30>50 Percent over 50 Not Specified
Board of Directors 0 8 92 0
Total Employees 58 31 8 3
Above Restaurant 14 67 17 2
Restaurant 63 27 7 3
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to menAt Yum!, we are committed to paying our employees fairly and equitably. Our pay practices are 
grounded in market-competitive and performance-based principles to attract, retain and reward 
world-class talent. We leverage tools and processes to establish equitable pay decisions, including 
salary ranges and bonus targets by level, objective performance goals and ratings, and clear 
guidelines for merit increases, bonuses and long-term incentives tied to performance. 
In the U.S., where a significant portion of our population resides, we run an annual statistical 
regression analysis to establish that pay disparities by gender and ethnicity do not exist. Taking 
into account all job- and performance-related factors used in making pay decisions, the analysis 
finds we do not have any statistically significant variances in pay for any gender or ethnic group. We 
are committed to continuing to review and refine our practices and processes to establish we are 
rewarding our employees fairly.49 48
GRI INDEXGRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryWe respect the right of all employees to associate or not to associate with any group as permitted 
by applicable laws and regulations. Suppliers must respect the rights of workers to associate, 
organize and bargain collectively in a lawful and peaceful manner without penalty or interference.
Yum! Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy
Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the 
right to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining may be at riskEmployees and suppliers who have any concerns can report those concerns to our independent, 
third-party system called “The Network.”
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryFair employment practices do more than keep Yum! in compliance with applicable labor and 
employment laws. They help us attract and retain the best talent for our workforce. Yum! is 
committed to not using forced or compulsory labor. Suppliers are also required to follow this policy.
People > People Dashboard; Ethics & Human Rights > Human Rights in the Supply Chain 
Yum! Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy
Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 
laborFair employment practices do more than keep Yum! in compliance with applicable labor and 
employment laws. They help us attract and retain the best talent for our workforce. Yum! is 
committed to not using forced or compulsory labor. Suppliers are also required to follow this policy. 
We do not view our company operations as has having significant risk for incidents related to not 
following this policy.
People > People Dashboard; Ethics & Human Rights > Human Rights in the Supply Chain 
Yum! Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy
Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPeople > People  Dashboard; Ethics & Human Rights > Human Rights in the Supply Chain 
Yum! Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy
Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
412-2 Employee training on human rights 
policies or proceduresThe total number of hours devoted to training and communications on issues relating to human 
rights policies and the treatment of individuals was estimated to be 15,700 in the reporting year. 
This total covers employees, franchisees and suppliers. We covered approximately 34% of our full-
time employee count at the end of the year.
GRI 413: Local Communities
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPeople > Brand Community Impact, pg. 19
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
413-1 Employee training on human rights 
policies or proceduresPeople > Brand Community Impact, pg. 19
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPeople > People Dashboard; Ethics & Human Rights > Human Rights in the Supply Chain 
Food > Food Safety, pg. 25 
Yum! Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy
Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
social criteriaOur first priority is to maintain an industry-leading, safe, high-quality food supply from farm 
to fork. Our vision is to deliver to society “Trust in Every Bite.”To achieve this, we have strong 
food safety management systems in place to evaluate each step of the supply chain. We utilize 
internationally recognized industry standards and Yum! food safety standards in tandem. These 
standards address areas where key risk factors exist, such as employee health and hygiene, product 
handling, product temperature management, cross-contamination and more. Since 2016, Yum! has 
conducted more than 467,524 restaurant food safety audits. In the reporting year, we also assessed 
93% of suppliers on our way to assessing 100% of Tier 1 suppliers annually.
GRI 415: Public Policy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryWe believe that it is important to discuss policies that may impact our business operations, 
franchisees, industry and stakeholders. We adhere to all applicable laws that govern our 
interactions with public officials as well as our own Code of Conduct.
Global Code of Conduct
Political Contributions & U.S. Government Advocacy Policy 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
415-1 Political Contributions We believe that it is important to openly discuss policies that may impact our business operations, 
franchisees, industry and stakeholders. We adhere to all applicable laws that govern our 
interactions with public officials as well as our own Code of Conduct. Direct political contributions 
made by our PAC (January 1 - December 31, 2020) totaled $37,000. For detailed information 
regarding the contributions, please visit the Federal Election Commission website.
GRI 416: Customer Health & Safety 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryFood, pgs. 22-27
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety 
impacts of product and service categoriesOur first priority is to maintain an industry-leading, safe, high-quality food supply from farm 
to fork. Our vision is to deliver to society “Trust in Every Bite.”To achieve this, we have strong 
food safety management systems in place to evaluate each step of the supply chain. We utilize 
internationally recognized industry standards and Yum! food safety standards in tandem. These 
standards address areas where key risk factors exist, such as employee health and hygiene, product 
handling, product temperature management, cross-contamination and more. Since 2016, Yum! has 
conducted more than 467,524 restaurant food safety audits. In the reporting year, we also assessed 
93% of suppliers on our way to assessing 100% of Tier 1 suppliers annually.
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum! is committed to following all laws and providing guests with accurate information. Customers 
rely on that information to make decisions on where to dine as well as to make menu selections. 
Promoting transparency about our food empowers the customer to make personal choices. We 
follow U.S. and international guidelines to avoid marketing to children and are committed to our 
goal of limiting marketing communication to children under 12.103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsIn 2020 there were two incidences of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 
resulting in fines at KFC.
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum! understands that in today’s digital environment, customer and employee privacy is important 
and we are committed to treating personal information with care. We invest significantly in tools, 
systems and people to help keep information secure as threats continue to evolve.
Yum! Privacy Policy
Global Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses 
of customer dataYum! maintains a program to address potential security and privacy incidents. The program 
includes processes to meet notification or other reporting obligations under applicable local laws.51 50
SASB INDEXAccounting Metric Unit of Measure Code Response
Energy Management
Total energy consumed Gigajoules (GJ)  FB-RN-130a.1 Energy data is available within our CDP Climate Change response. Our CDP 
Climate Change 2020 response achieved a score of A-.  
 
To learn more about our approach to energy management, please see: Planet > 
Climate Action. The energy initiatives described therein will help us to achieve our 
Climate Action goals, detailed on the Planet Dashboard.  
 
Additionally, we have conducted a climate change analysis in line with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD). The analysis identified actions our company can take to be more resilient 
to the physical risks of climate change, such as diversifying energy sources and 
lowering the energy demands of restaurants. See the TCFD report here.
GRI 302-1Percentage grid electricity Percentage (%) FB-RN-130a.1
Percentage renewable Percentage (%) FB-RN-130a.1
Water Management
Total water withdrawn Thousand cubic 
metersFB-RN-140a.1 Water data is available within CDP Water Security response.  Our CDP Water 
Security 2020 response achieved a score of A-.  
 
Yum! restaurants have taken steps to reduce water use, and we’ve conducted a 
global water risk assessment using the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas to better 
understand our footprint. Please see Planet > Water for more details on the 
assessment and our approach to water management. We have also set a goal 
to reduce average water consumption by 10% by the end of 2025, using a 2017 
baseline.  
 
Additionally, the climate change analysis described above considered water risk to 
stores as well as to suppliers.
GRI 303-3
GRI 305-5
Citizenship and Sustainability, page 34Total water consumed Thousand cubic 
metersFB-RN-140a.1
Percentage of water withdrawn and 
consumed in regions with High or 
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress 
using WRI Water Risk AtlasPercentage (%) FB-RN-140a.1
Food & Packaging Waste Management
Total amount of waste Metric tonnes (t) FB-RN-150a.1 See Planet > Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction for a summary of our 
circular approach to food and packaging waste reduction, as well as for details on 
brand level packaging and waste goals. Our approach spans operational waste 
diversion, sustainably designed packaging, and donating food waste to nonprofits 
through the Harvest program (see People > Brand Community Impact > Hunger 
Relief for more).
GRI 306-3
Percentage food waste Percentage (%) FB-RN-150a.1 GRI 306-4
Percentage diverted Percentage (%) FB-RN-150a.1 Citizenship and Sustainability, Progress Update
Total weight of packaging Metric tonnes (t) FB-RN-150a.2 Estimated 546,000 metric tons of fiber based and plastic based packaging 
and customer servicewares.  This is only a directional estimate and we expect 
refinements in data collection in the future
Percentage made from recycled and/or 
renewable materialsPercentage (%) FB-RN-150a.2 It is estimated that 34% of fiber-based and 11% of plastic based packaging 
and customer servicewares are from recycled sources. This is only a directional 
estimate and we expect refinements in data collection in the future.Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Response 
This disclosure marks Yum!'s first response to the SASB Restaurants Standard. We are in the process of developing our approach to collecting data 
for the accounting metrics, first for corporate-owned restaurants and then at the franchise level. For metrics for which data is not yet available, we 
offer information on our approach to and targets for these topics.Percentage that is recyclable, reusable, 
and/or compostablePercentage (%) FB-RN-150a.2 It is estimated that 12% of plastic packaging is generally considered widely 
recyclable in most jurisdictions (resin types 1 and 2). Although higher rates are 
possible in many areas.
Food Safety
Percentage of restaurants inspected by a 
food safety oversight body, at company-
owned and franchisee locationsPercentage (%) FB-RN-250a.1 Yum! delivers "Trust in every bite." See Food > Food Safety for the measures we 
take together with our suppliers and franchisees to uphold our industry-leading 
food safety program. 
Percentage of inspected restaurants 
receiving critical violations at company-
owned and franchisee locationsPercentage (%) FB-RN-250a.1
Number of food safety related recalls at 
company-owned and franchise locations Number FB-RN-250a.2
Total amount of food product recalled for 
company-owned and franchise locationsMetric tonnes (t) FB-RN-250a.2
Number of confirmed foodborne illness 
outbreaks at company-owned and 
franchise locations Number FB-RN-250a.3
Percentage of confirmed foodborne 
illness outbreaks resulting in CDC 
investigation at company-owned and 
franchise locations with corrective actionsPercentage (%) FB-RN-250a.3
Nutritional Content
Percentage of meal options consistent 
with national dietary guidelinesPercentage (%)  FB-RN-260a.1 Yum! publishes online nutrition calculators for all four brands’ U.S. menus and 
provides consumers with convenient access to allergen and nutrition information. 
By 2030, 50% of our menu items will be consistent with our global nutrition 
criteria of side menu items being 200 calories or less, main menu items being 
400 calories or less and combo/meal menu items being 750 calories or less. See 
Food > Balanced Choices for more.Revenue from these options Reporting  
currencyFB-RN-260a.1
Percentage of children’s meal options 
consistent with national dietary 
guidelines for childrenPercentage (%)  FB-RN-260a.2
 Revenue from these options Reporting  
currencyFB-RN-260a.2
Number of advertising impressions made 
on children Number  FB-RN-260a.3 Yum! follows U.S. and international guidelines to avoid marketing to children.
Percentage of advertising impressions 
made on children promoting products 
that meet national dietary guidelines for 
childrenPercentage (%) FB-RN-260a.352 53
Labor Practices
Voluntary Rate FB-RN-310a.1 In building a workplace for everyone, Yum! seeks to retain and support restaurant 
employees. See the People chapter to learn about our Unlocking Opportunity 
Initiative, established to positively impact restaurant team members and 
communities through equity & inclusion, education and entrepreneurship. As an 
input to the Initiative, we have engaged with restaurant workers to understand 
the challenges they face. Additionally, we provide training and scholarship 
programs. For a limited time, training and retention bonuses are being offered. 
Yum! offers team members at corporate restaurants a range of benefits, which 
were strengthened during the COVID-19 pandemic.Average hourly wage for restaurant 
employees by region at company-owned 
and franchise locations Rate FB-RN-310a.1
Average hourly wage, by region Reporting  
currencyFB-RN-310a.2  
Percentage of restaurant employees 
earning minimum wage, by regionPercentage (%) FB-RN-310a.2
Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with labor law violations at company-
owned and franchise locationsUSD FB-RN-310a.3 It is our policy to deal fairly with employees; provide equal opportunity for all 
in recruiting, hiring, developing, promoting and compensating without regard 
to race, religion, color, age, gender, disability, genetic information, military or 
veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, citizenship, 
national origin or other legally protected status; maintain a professional, safe and 
discrimination free work environment; and recognize and compensate employees 
based on their performance.Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of employment discrimination at 
company-owned and franchise locationsUSD FB-RN-310a.3
Supply Chain Management & Food Sourcing
Percentage of food purchased that meets 
environmental and social sourcing 
standards Percentage (%)  
by costFB-RN-430a.1 In recent years, Yum! has strengthened commitments to social and environmental 
standards in key areas of our supply chain, including vegetables, fresh produce, 
palm oil, and animals. Our practices are aligned with third-parties such as the 
Fair Food Standards Council, the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil, and the 
Roundtable for Sustainable Poultry & Eggs. 
See also People > Ethics & Human Rights > Human Rights in the Supply Chain; 
Planet > Supply Chain; Forest Stewardship; Animal Welfare; Limiting  
Antibiotic UsePercentage of food purchased that meets 
third-party environmental and/or social 
certificationPercentage (%)  
by costFB-RN-430a.1
Percentage of eggs originated from 
cage-free sources at company-owned and 
franchise locations  Percentage (%)  
by number  FB-RN-430a.2
Percentage of pork produced without the 
use of gestation crates at company-owned 
and franchise locationsPercentage (%)  
by weightFB-RN-430a.2
Discussion of strategy to manage 
environmental and social risks within the 
supply chain, including animal welfaren/a FB-RN-430a.3
Activity Metrics
Number of company-owned restaurants Number FB-RN-000.A On December 31, 2020, Yum! Brands owned 1,098 restaurants.
Number of franchise-owned restaurants Number FB-RN-000.A On December 31, 2020, franchisees owned 49,256  restaurants.
Number of employees at company-owned 
locations Number FB-RN-000.B Approximately 38,000 employees
Number of employees at franchise-owned 
locationsNumber FB-RN-000.B We do not track the number of employees at franchise-owned locations but we 
would expect there to be approximately 1.5M employees.
SASB INDEX 2021 TCFD REPORT EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Acute Physical Risk — single 
extreme weather event  
(e.g. flooding, hurricane, tornado)7.5%  
of global 
restaurants ‘at risk’
Chronic Physical Risk – prolonged 
impacts from slow-onset climate 
shifts (e.g. water stress,  
persistent drought)3.1%  
of global 
restaurants ‘at risk’
Transition & Market Risk –  
climate-related regulations (e.g. 
carbon pricing) and/or  
stakeholder perceptions15.8%  
of global 
restaurants ‘at risk’Acute Physical Risk – single 
extreme weather event  
(e.g. flooding, hurricane, tornado)8.8%  
of global suppliers 
‘at risk’ 
Chronic Physical Risk – prolonged 
impacts from slow-onset climate 
shifts (e.g. water stress,  
persistent drought)12.6%  
of global suppliers 
‘at risk’
Transition & Market Risk – climate-
related regulations (e.g. carbon 
pricing) and/or stakeholder 
perceptions39.2%  
of global suppliers 
‘at risk’Yum! is committed to addressing the climate crises by supporting a transition to a sustainable, low-carbon economy. Yum!’s first-ever 
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) report analyzed our climate risks and opportunities globally. The TCFD report, 
conducted in collaboration with a third-party external partner, has been prepared according to recommendations from TCFD and builds on 
Yum!’s existing climate work such as Yum!’s science-based targets and CDP disclosures. View Yum!’s full TCFD report here .
KEY FOCUS AREAS
KEY FINDINGS
Yum! has reviewed different scenarios and has identified that a combination of physical and transition risks will vary by geography versus 
being globally harmonized. The assessment results provide a foundation for Yum!’s commitment to a dual strategy of decarbonization and 
climate resiliency as both are critical to a sustainable business.  Overall, the Yum! business model has strong elements of risk mitigation built 
in given our vast geographical footprint.Acute Physical Chronic Physical Regulatory Transition Market Transition
Climate Risk Category and Exposure Climate Risk Category and ExposureRESTAURANT SUPPLY CHAIN
TCFD CATEGORIES OF RISKRestaurants Supply Chain (Meat, Poultry, Dairy and Fiber)54
 55ABOUT THIS REPORT 
We remain committed to disclosing our sustainability progress. This report covers 
key commitments and initiatives that have been announced since our last report was 
published, in addition to full-year sustainability data from January 1–December 31, 2020. 
Data was gathered from our corporate operations, company-owned KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco 
Bell and The Habit Burger Grill restaurants and select franchisees.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. 
We recognize GRI as a leading standard for reporting on environmental, social and 
governance issues reflecting the results of a materiality assessment. This report also 
contains Yum!’s first disclosure to the SASB Restaurant Standards and is also aligned with 
the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)’s guidance for reporting 
on climate risk.
For more information about our citizenship and sustainability work,  
visit www.yum.com/citizenship .    
Please send comments or questions about this report to citizenship@yum.com.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A 
of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We 
intend all forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the 
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements generally can 
be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and by 
the use of forward-looking words such as “expect,” “expectation,” “believe,” “anticipate,” 
“may,” “could,” “intend,” “belief,” “plan,” “estimate,” “target,” “predict,” “likely,” “seek,” 
“project,” “model,” “ongoing,” “will,” “should,” “forecast,” “outlook,” “new store opening 
goals” or similar terminology. These statements are based on and reflect our current 
expectations, estimates, assumptions and/or projections, our perception of historical 
trends and current conditions, as well as other factors that we believe are appropriate and 
reasonable under the circumstances. Forward-looking statements are neither predictions 
nor guarantees of future events, circumstances or performance and are inherently subject 
to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual 
results to differ materially from those indicated by those statements. There can be no 
assurance that our expectations, estimates, assumptions and/or projections, including with 
respect to the future earnings and performance or capital structure of Yum!, will prove to 
be correct or that any of our expectations, estimates or projections will be achieved. The 
forward-looking statements included in this report are only made as of the date of this 
report, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement 
to reflect subsequent events or circumstances