
2018年
企业社会责任
和可持续发展报告
Food Environment People Community
Remarks by Yum China CEO . ............................................................................................................. 3
About Yum China ................................................................................................................................ 4
2018 Sustainability Highlights . ........................................................................................................... 5
Corporate Governance . ....................................................................................................................... 9
Sustainability Strategy ........................................................................................................................ 10
Materiality Assessment . ...................................................................................................................... 11
About this Report ................................................................................................................................ 14
Our Food .............................................................................................................................................. 15
Our Environment ................................................................................................................................. 38
Our People........................................................................................................................................... 61
Our Community ................................................................................................................................... 76
Appendix .............................................................................................................................................. 97Table of Contents
At Yum China, our vision is to be the world’s most 
innovative pioneer in the restaurant industry. As part of 
our ambition to lead, we are committed to enhancing the 
sustainability of our value chain and having a positive 
impact on society. I am delighted to present the 2018 
Yum China Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and 
Sustainability Report. It emphasizes our commitments to 
CSR and showcases the progress we made last year. 
In 2018, we opened 819 new stores; this represents the 
second highest in our history. As we increase the size of 
our operations, we have also sought every opportunity 
to give back to society. Last year, we conserved 14,000 
MWh of electricity and 140,000 tons of water, reduced 
greenhouse gas emissions by 10,000 tCO2e and paper 
and plastic packaging by 9,000 tons. In addition, we are 
the first Chinese restaurant company that supplies ISCC 
(International Sustainability and Carbon Certification) 
certified used cooking oil as a sustainable feedstock for 
biodiesel production.
We not only built on the success of our flagship 
programs and scaled up proven initiatives, but also 
introduced many new projects. Our strategy is centered 
on food safety, balanced diets and healthy lifestyle. The 
award-winning One Yuan Donation program remained 
one of the largest public donation campaigns in China, 
and we have extended its reach this year by utilizing 
Yum China’s unparalleled digital capabilities. 
Our devotion to building an inclusive and transparent 
working environment has been widely recognized. I 
am very proud that Yum China has been certified as a 
Top Employer 2019 and was named on the Bloomberg 
Gender Equality Index, recognizing the fact that over 
60% of our employees and nearly half of our executive 
team are female. In addition, we have opened 23 Angel 
Restaurants that provide opportunities for staff with 
special needs. We have rolled out many initiatives to ensure that our 
restaurant managers have the necessary support to 
lead our business from the frontline. This includes giving 
them shares through our RGM (Restaurant General 
Manager) equity program and providing family health 
insurance that has been designed to benefit around 
17,000 children, spouses and parents up to 75 years old 
of over 5,000 RGMs.
Moreover, we have enhanced our sustainability strategy 
and integrated it with our core growth strategy. This 
guides us to work towards challenging goals in areas 
such as energy efficiency, carbon emissions, water 
efficiency, green building, sustainable packaging, and 
responsible and sustainable sourcing. Our determination 
to create a sustainable ecosystem, enabling greener 
restaurant operations, supply chains and community 
services, is a core business goal.
Our strategic priorities are to address the emerging 
industry challenges we face while having a long-term 
positive impact on society, including our customers, 
shareholders, colleagues, the communities we work in 
and with, and the environment.
We continue to embrace innovation in every aspect of our 
business to power growth, and innovation continues to 
define our approach to corporate social responsibility. Yum 
China will keep exploring innovative ways to give back.
Looking back, we have achieved important milestones 
across our four responsibility pillars of food, environment, 
people and community. This remarkable progress 
underpins our core strategy and enables us to work hard 
towards ambitious sustainability goals and bring value 
to stakeholders. Our commitment to making a difference 
in China is unwavering and we face the future full of 
confidence that Yum China’s strengths will continue to 
contribute to society.
Joey Wat 
Yum.China.CEORemarks by Yum China CEO

Yum China has exclusive rights in mainland China to KFC, China’s leading quick-service restaurant brand, Pizza Hut, the leading casual dining restaurant brand in China, 
and Taco Bell, a California-based restaurant chain serving innovative Mexican-inspired food. Yum China also owns the East Dawning, Little Sheep and COFFii & JOY 
concepts outright.(As of the end of 2018)
Yum China Holdings, Inc. ("Yum China") has been operating in China for over 30 years and is the largest 
restaurant company in China. Its vision is to be the world's most innovative pioneer in the restaurant industry.
stores
cities with stores
employees8,400+
1,200+
450,000+
store Distribution centerAbout Yum China
Asia
2018 Sustainability Highlights
Food Safety
Serving Delicious, Safe and 
High-quality Food to Our 
CustomersMore than 16,800 Operation Excellence Checks (covering food safety and brand requirements) for over 8,400 
restaurants nationwide.
More than 90,000 sample tests on utensils, smallwares, food materials and related products used by restaurants.
Approximately 4,000 quality checks on the main menu products provided by restaurants. 
More than 490 food safety and quality audits on food suppliers conducted by Yum China’s Quality Assurance Team.
Internet of Things (IoT) applied and enabled monitoring and tracking of real-time temperature of in-transit products and 
vehicles, warehouse freezers and chillers.
Nutrition
Promoting Healthy and 
Balanced Diets and 
Providing Customers with 
a Wide Range of Delicious 
Meal Choices  Kid’s meals provided by KFC and Pizza Hut complied with the requirements outlined by the Chinese Nutrition Society's 
(CNS) “The Nutrition Principles of Dining for School-age Children in Restaurants".
Approximately 300 new products introduced.
In addition to high-quality protein meat, a variety of natural ingredients such as grains, fruits, vegetables, soy and nut 
products, provided customers with balanced diets. More than 60 varieties of fruits and vegetables used in 2018 with 
48,000 tons procurement volume, with an over 12% increase compared to 2017.
Scientific 
Research and 
Popular Science
Supporting Scientific 
Research in Dietary Nutrition 
and Health
Promoting Nutrition 
Knowledge and Health 
Concepts
Food Safety Education7 projects sponsored by the CNS-Yum China Dietary Health Foundation and RMB 1.6 million donated to the fund. 
80 million National Nutrition Week-themed paper placemats distributed throughout KFC restaurants across the country 
between 2016 and 2018.
More than 300 nationwide National Youth & Children Food Safety Education Campaign sessions carried out, benefitting 
over 20 million members of the public.
On April 3, 2018, the China Youth & Children Development and Service Center conferred on Yum China the honorary 
title of being a “National Youth Food Safety Education Experience Activity Base”. Our Food
Energy Efficiency/
Carbon Emissions14,000 MWh of electricity conservation achieved through energy-saving initiatives.
10,000 tCO2e  of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduced through energy-saving and emission-reduction initiatives.
Water Efficiency 140,000 tons of water conservation achieved through various water-saving initiatives.
Sustainable Packaging 8,000 tons of paper and 1,000 tons of plastic materials reduced through new sustainable packaging initiatives.
Waste ManagementFirst restaurant company in China to get the ISCC certification  for its used cooking oil that will be converted into 
sustainable biodiesel.
1,100 tons of cooking oil reduced through the utilization of innovative fryer and management systems.
Green Building All newly-built restaurants fully complied with the Yum China Green Building Standards.
Responsible SourcingAll suppliers signed the Yum China Supplier Code of Conduct.
CSR audits completed on all critical suppliers.
Sustainable SourcingCertified member of RSPO to support sustainable palm oil production.
100% of purchased palm oil certified by RSPO.
Note: Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)Our Environment
Restaurant General  
Manager (RGM) Family 
Care ProgramStarting on July 1, 2018, all RGMs who have served as restaurant managers for at least 2 years are eligible 
to participate in the RGM Family Care insurance program. The program, funded entirely by the Company, has 
benefited a first batch of more than 5,000 RGMs, together with 17,000 parents, spouses, and children.
Accelerated Career 
Development for 
Management TraineesThe Company’s industry-leading training and development programs enable employees to take control of their 
career path and development. The tailor-made programs support them to fully unlock their potential and grow 
quickly. It is possible for a freshly graduated restaurant management trainee to climb three levels up the career 
ladder to restaurant manager in as short as 22 months.  
Leadership 
Development ProgramWith the strong support of the Company’s management team, the Yum China Leadership Development program 
came into being, aiming to provide our future leaders with the core competencies to drive future success.
Bloomberg Gender-
Equality Index (GEI)By the end of 2018, Yum China employed over 275,000 female employees, representing 61.2% of the 
Company’s total workforce. About 59% of management level positions were held by women. The Company  
continues to make great strides in nurturing talented female leaders across all management levels. Yum 
China was selected for the 2019 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI), which recognizes companies who 
demonstrate a strong commitment to transparency in gender reporting and advancing women’s equality.
Hiring Employees
With DisabilitiesIn 2018, Yum China hired more than 2,000 people with disabilities across 150 different cities. In the future, 
the employment rate of people with disabilities will remain above 1.5% of full-time employees. As one of the 
important initiatives to support the employment of people with disabilities, KFC currently operates 23 “Angel 
Restaurants” located in 22 cities.
2019 Top Employers
in ChinaYum China was certified by the Top Employers Institute as one of 2019’s “Top Employers in China”, which 
recognizes companies who demonstrate continuous efforts to promote a corporate talent strategy and cultivate 
talents through systematic training.Our People
Poverty Alleviation
One Yuan Donation Program
Grow  Local InitiativeIn 2018, the One Yuan Donation program raised over RMB 17 million, and it is estimated that as a result 5 million more 
nutritious meals will be provided, and 106 additional schools will be equipped with "Modern Kitchens."
Approximately 90 supply chain partners voluntarily participated in the One Yuan Donation program in 2018.
860 farmers received truffle harvesting training through the Grow Local Initiative, between February and September 
2018. Recorded online courses facilitated the training of even more farmers.
Issued one of the first scientific training manuals on sustainable truffle farming in Yunnan Province that enables the local 
government and Agriculture and Rural Affairs Office to provide farmers with much-needed training in Yunnan Province.
Community Care
KFC's School After 4:30pm
Pizza Hut Public Reading 
ProgramBy the end of 2018, 17 KFC restaurants in 3 cities, namely Shenzhen, Zhengzhou, and Wuhan, had hosted 588 “School 
After 4:30pm” activities.
By the end of 2018, Pizza Hut’s Public Reading program had been launched in 14 restaurants in 13 different cities. More 
than 19,000 books had been collected at these restaurants. 
Education and 
Empowerment 
KFC “Little Migratory Birds” 
Fund
KFC Kid's Book Club
KFC First Light FoundationIn 2018, the Little Migratory Birds Fund expanded the scope of its projects to Sichuan, Tibet, Qinghai, and Inner 
Mongolia, bringing the total number of project locations to 26. Nationwide, 601 reading corners were added, 
approximately 135,000 new books distributed, 601 Bluetooth speakers and 100 Little Migratory Birds Reading Buckets 
installed, and around RMB 1.75 million for associated activities donated. These actions benefited approximately 900,000 
left-behind and migrant children during the year.
In 2018, 115 KFC restaurants in 19 provinces held 203 Little Migratory Birds activities. Approximately 1,000 employees 
invested 19,243 hours to support these activities. In addition, 644 volunteers invested a total of 3,907 hours to participate 
in these activities. 
In 2018, the total number of books in the KFC Kid’s Book Club reached 18.5 million and 200,000 reading activities were 
conducted throughout the year.
Approximately RMB 9 million in scholarships provided to 1,702 university students at 32 higher education institutions 
across 22 provinces, by the KFC First Light Foundation during the 2017 to 2018 school year.
Advocating for 
Healthy Lifestyles
KFC 3x3 Basketball 
Championship
MarathonIn 2018, the KFC 3x3 Basketball Championship joined the FIBA Event Maker, improving the standard of tournaments.
In 2018, KFC supported 24 marathons, with more than 3,400 runners joining K-Run teams, and over 6,700 families 
participating in family runs.
Registrations for 14 marathons, generating 7,000 registrations were supported by the KFC Super App during the year. A 
K Run section was launched on the KFC Super APP in 2017.Our Community
Director Elections and Attendance
• Annual election of all directors beginning at the 2019 Annual Meeting 
of Stockholders
• Majority voting policy for elections of directors in uncontested elections
• Proxy access for director nominees by stockholders
• Over 95% director attendance at the Board and committee meetings 
in 2018The business and affairs of the Company are managed under the direction of the Board of Directors. The Board believes that good corporate governance is a critical factor in 
achieving business success and in fulfilling the Board’s responsibilities to stockholders. The Board believes that its practices align management and stockholder interests. 
The corporate governance section of our website makes available certain of the Company’s corporate governance materials, including our Corporate Governance Principles, 
the charters for each committee and our Code of Conduct. To access these documents on our Investor Relations website, ir.yumchina.com, click on “Governance” under 
“About Yum China” and then “Governance Documents.” 
Highlights of our corporate governance policies and practices are described below. 
A complete overview of corporate governance at Yum China is provided on our Investor Relations website, ir.yumchina.com and 2019 Proxy Statement.Director Independence
Other Governance Practices• Independent Board Chairman
• 10 of 12 directors are independent
Board Refreshment and Diversity
• Directors with experience, qualifications and skills across a wide range 
of public and private companies
• Directors reflect a diversity of gender, race and ethnicity
• Average director age of 59 as of March 29, 2019
• Independent and non-management directors may generally not stand 
for re-election after age 75• Active stockholder engagement
• No shareholder rights plan (also known as a poison pill)
• Director and executive officer stock ownership policies
• Policy prohibiting hedging or other speculative trading of the Company stock
• Policy regarding resignation if any director experiences a significant 
change in professional roles and responsibilities
• Board access to senior management and independent advisorsCorporate Governance
As the industry continues to evolve, we take emerging industry 
challenges seriously. To ensure our business has a positive impact on 
the economy, society and environment, both now and in the future, we 
focus on the long-term impact of our entire value chain covering a broad 
range of stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, employees, 
suppliers, the communities we work in and with, and the environment. 
We have integrated sustainability with our company’s long-term business 
growth strategy “Sustainable Platform for Growth”, consistently providing 
our customers with safe and nutritious food while fulfilling a commitment 
to sustainable economic, social and environmental development. 
We have developed a sustainability strategy called “Creating A 
Responsible Ecosystem” to drive the continuous improvement of 
Yum China’s ESG performance in relation to Food, Environment and 
Community to support Yum China’s long-term business growth strategy.
We are committed to building Sustainable Restaurants, a Sustainable 
Supply Chain and a Sustainable Community.Sustainability Strategy
Yum China has always been committed to becoming the world's most 
innovative pioneer in the restaurant industry. We will continue to 
leverage our strengths to contribute to the sustainable development of 
the economy, society, and environment, and do our utmost to improve 
the Food We Eat, the Water We Drink, and the Air We Breathe - to 
make every life taste beautiful.  At Yum China, we are committed to providing safe and nutritious food in a way that is economically, socially and 
environmentally sustainable.
Creating  A Responsible  Ecosystem
Corporate Governance / CultureWe CARE about our environment  
and minimizing our footprintENVIRONMENT
We CARE about our customers 
with safe & nutritious foodsFOOD
We CARE about our community
with “Fair, Care and Pride”COMMUNITYSustainable Platform for GROWTH
 Sustainable Restaurants
•  Culture and Value
•  Employee Relations and 
Engagement
•  People Capability First
•  Business Ethics (CoC)
•  Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity•  Waste Management 
•  Sustainable Packaging 
•  GHG / Energy Efficiency 
•  Water Management  
•  Green Building•  Restaurant Food Safety & 
Quality
•  Nutritional Improvement 
•  Distribution Management
Sustainable Supply Chain
•  Labor Law and Regulation
•  Occupational Health and 
Safety•  Responsible Sourcing
•  Sustainable  Sourcing 
   (Palm Oil and Fiber)•  Supplier Food Safety & 
Quality
•  Animal Welfare
•  Use of Veterinary Drugs 
and Antibiotics
•  GMO, Pesticides and 
Food Additives
Sustainable Community
• Community Care
• Donations
• Care for Special Groups•  Public Awareness & 
Education• Healthy Living Promotion
We behave responsibly
Enhancing our brand image and value
We develop stably
Protecting our business through risk management
We operate efficiently
Reducing our environmental footprint
Materiality Assessment
We recognize that our activities impact not only our business performance but also our stakeholders. In order to remain successful long-term, we need to create value for our 
shareholders, our stakeholders and society as a whole.
We worked with a third-party consultant to go through a rigorous stakeholder engagement process in 2017 to identify the representative stakeholders and learn about 
their expectation. In total, 418 survey responses were gathered, and 33 interviews were conducted, which gave us detailed insights on our sustainable development under 
the pillars of Food, Environment, People and Community in our value chain. This materiality assessment process determined the key topics under our pillars through the 
following four steps.
• Identify the pillars and related topics from our 
value chain
• Understand the requirements of law and 
regulations
• Review publicly reported materials of peers 
• Review the emerging industry challenges•  Define the topics under each pillar
•  Understand the topics for Yum China and our 
stakeholders
• Design the interview and survey questionnaire
•  Identify external and internal stakeholders to 
do the interview/survey
• Conduct the interview and survey•  Summarize the findings and scores from the 
stakeholders
•  Conduct the materiality assessment to create 
the materiality matrix
•  Validate the findings and results
•  Prioritize key topics and develop final 
materiality matrixIdentification Prioritization
Engagement Analysis and Validation01 02
03 04
Materiality
Assessment
We operate in a responsible manner, creating an iconic brand that is trustworthy, supportive, and gives back to society. 
Our key stakeholders include investors/shareholders, government and regulators, customers, employees, suppliers, communities, franchisees and associations/NGOs, and 
more. In order to understand their expectations and meet the diversified needs of various stakeholder groups, Yum China regularly communicates with stakeholders through 
various channels. Stakeholder Engagement
Communication 
Channels
Communication 
Channels
• Employee communication 
and feedback platform
• Employee engagement survey
• Training and development 
programs
• Regular communication with 
management and performance 
appraisals
• Employee activities and family 
system
• Working committees, groups 
and meetings
• Seminars and lectures
• Industry memberships • Customer satisfaction surveys 
and feedback
• Customer service centers
• Online services
• Customer activities
• Social media
• Annual franchise conference
• Direct contact• Regular work meetings
• Written responses to public 
inquiries
• Corporate and employee 
donations
• Employee volunteer services
• Local non-profit partnerships• Annual shareholders meeting
• Annual and quarterly reports
• Press releases
• Investor conferences 
• Shareholder engagement
• Supplier business review 
meetings
• Senior-level meetings
• Supplier visits
• Supplier auditsStakeholders
StakeholdersInvestors / Shareholders
SuppliersGovernment and 
Regulators
CommunitiesCustomers
FranchiseesEmployees
Associations and NGOs
The materiality matrix below provides an overview of the sustainability issues that matter most to our internal and external stakeholders in relation to our business. It features 
28 topics which fall into four pillars. These materiality topics help inform our sustainability strategy and are featured prominently in this report. Materiality Assessment Results
FOOD
PEOPLEENVIRONMENT
COMMUNITY
Internal ExpectationExternal Expectation
242826
21182319
2243 9
10
1
8
67
25
1120
25 271516
14
13
17
1201 Nutritional Improvement
02 More Choice
03 Supplier Food Quality  & 
Safety
04 Restaurant Food Quality & 
Safety
05 Animal Welfare
06 Responsible Sourcing
07 Genetically Modified Food
08 Crisis Management
09 Antibiotics
10 Food Additives
11 Distribution Management12 Sustainable Sourcing
13 Sustainable Packaging
14 Energy Efficiency / GHG
15 Water Management
16 Waste Management
17 Green Building
18 Employee Relations and 
Engagement
19 People Capability First
20 Occupational Health and 
Safety
21 Diversity and Equal 
Opportunity
22 Business Ethics (CoC)
23 Culture and Value24 Donations
25 Care for Special Groups
26 Healthy Life Advocacy
27 Community Care
28 Public Awareness & 
Education
Report Profile, Scope and Boundaries
Since entering China in 1987, Yum China has been committed to sustainability and 
making a positive impact. The 2018 Yum China Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) and Sustainability Report is our second such report as an independently 
listed company. As this report showcases, we focus our performance on four key 
areas where our scale and expertise can make the biggest impact. These are our 
Food, our Environment, our People and our Community. 
We recognize that we have a duty to provide transparent sustainability information 
to our various groups of stakeholders including employees, customers, consumers, 
suppliers, shareholders, governments, and more. In this report, we aim to provide 
a transparent assessment of our sustainability journey and provide information on 
our sustainability efforts, partnerships and programs.
This report covers all Yum China’s company operations, including our restaurant 
support centers, restaurants and other Yum China owned and operated facilities. 
The reporting time frame covers January to December 2018. All information, facts 
and figures contained in this report fall within this reporting time frame unless 
otherwise noted. Data and figures are reported in Chinese RMB with the exception 
of the Yum China stock price which is displayed in USD.
In this report, all data and goals cover all business operations of Yum China, 
except for the data of energy consumption, water consumption, GHG emissions 
and the Green Building Standards which cover all company-owned and 
unconsolidated affiliates restaurants of KFC and Pizza Hut brands (accounting for 
about 90% of the total number of Yum China restaurants).Materiality Assessment
Yum China conducted a materiality assessment in 2017 and revisited the 
assessment results in 2018 to identify the sustainability issues most material to our 
business and our stakeholders to determine the content and information contained 
in this report. We’re constantly looking across our business operations to identify 
the key areas where we have the strongest ability to make a material impact on the 
communities we operate in.
Assurance
To ensure accuracy of the content and information in this report, Yum China 
conducted an internal review of all data and assertions contained in this report. 
KPIs including energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2), total electricity 
consumption, total water consumption and female share of total workforce are 
subject to external assurance. Yum China’s internal subject matter experts and all 
members of the Yum China Leadership Team reviewed and approved the report. 
We sincerely hope that this 2018 Yum China Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) and Sustainability Report will enable our stakeholders to easily identify and 
find the information that is most relevant to them. 
We welcome your feedback on this report.
Please contact us at ：
CSR@yumchina.com
Yum China Building, 20 Tianyaoqiao Road, Shanghai 200030, P. R. China.About this Report
Make  Every Life Taste Beautiful
Food
Our Food Make Every Life Taste Beautiful
Food safety and quality are top priorities for Yum China, and these principles are firmly embedded in our corporate culture, with a well-recognized industry-leading food safety 
and quality management system. We promote healthy and balanced diets in responding to China’s national nutrition and health strategy, and actively develop new products 
that ensure customers receive more delicious, safe and high-quality product choices. In addition, we are committed to being the world’s most innovative pioneer in the 
restaurant industry, not only continuously innovating products, but also integrating the latest technology into supply chain management, therefore providing a strong impetus 
for the development of all Yum China brands. 
We are committed to the following principles:
Nutrition and Health
We are guided by customer needs to develop products from multiple angles, utilizing a variety of ingredients and cooking methods to provide consumers with a wide 
range of product choices. Kid’s meals comply with the Nutrition Guideline issued by the Chinese Nutrition Society. We don’t use hydrogenated vegetable oil for fried 
food in our restaurants. We support scientific research in dietary nutrition through the CNS-Yum China Dietary Health Foundation. In addition, we develop and support 
various nutrition and health promotion activities that are supportive of the Chinese government’s “Healthy China” strategy. 
Supply Chain Management Innovation
We apply advanced technologies as we continuously seek to build highly efficient electronic systems for procurement management, logistics management, 
food safety and quality management. In addition to existing supplier, logistics, and restaurant food safety and quality management systems, we established a 
new model for comprehensive risk monitoring, evaluation and management. We are passionate about serving delicious food that lives up to the trust our consumers place in us and meets the highest 
safety and quality standards across every aspect of our business. 
Food Safety and Quality
We only source and use food materials, food packaging, food processing equipment and utensils that comply with the relevant laws, regulations, and Yum China 
specifications. We use an advanced cold chain management system, Warehouse Management System (WMS) and Transportation Management System (TMS) to 
ensure food safety and product quality throughout the entire supply chain. We have implemented a holistic set of standardized restaurant and delivery food safety 
and quality management processes to ensure consistently delicious, safe and high-quality food. 100% of restaurant staff have attended and passed food safety 
training. We ensure that food safety audits cover 100% of our restaurants, distribution centers and critical suppliers.
Integrate Culture and Governance,
to be the Industry Role Model
Ensuring food safety requires the participation of all employees of the Company. Over the years, Yum China has always been committed to building 
a corporate culture with food safety as its core value, and we guide our suppliers to do the same. Yum China has established a holistic internal 
governance system to ensure the effective implementation of food safety management standards and measures. The food industry supply chain is 
large and complex and Yum China attaches great importance to cooperation with the various regulatory authorities, suppliers, industry associations 
and other relevant stakeholders to jointly ensure food safety.
Suppliers are Yum China's important partners in upholding food safety. 
The Procurement Terms and Conditions signed by Yum China and its 
suppliers clearly stipulate that suppliers and products must comply with 
relevant laws, regulations and Yum China’s specifications. We also require 
that suppliers provide their employees with effective training on legal 
compliance and food safety awareness. To ensure food safety from the farm to fork, Yum China has maintained active 
cooperation and communication with the relevant government regulatory authorities, 
industry associations, food science organizations and suppliers for many years. Our 
collaborations aim to jointly promote food safety and quality management practices, 
address food safety challenges and promote integrity in the industry.
In response to industry regulations and food safety standards that are open 
to public consultation, we actively provide advice based on our in-depth 
industry knowledge and management experience. Our actions include:
We support industry associations and scientific institutions on food safety 
public education, such as through the “23 Questions on Judicious Use of 
Veterinary Antibiotics and Food Safety” to help the public develop a deeper 
understanding of the science behind food safety issues and eliminate 
popular misunderstandings.We support industry associations to develop industry standards, improve 
industry practices, and promote the healthy development of the industry. In 
2018, Yum China, as the main drafting unit of the industry standard, worked 
together with other catering companies to support the China Cuisine 
Association to publish the “Guidelines for Microbiological Risk Control in the 
Operation Process of the Catering Industry” and the “Code of Practice for 
Delivery Service in the Catering Industry”, providing technical guidance for 
controlling microbial risks, preventing foodborne diseases, and guiding and 
regulating the catering industry delivery service.Uncompromising Integrity, Insist on 
Doing the Right Thing1 Multi-party Cooperation, to Promote the Healthy 
Development of the Industry2
Yum China's corporate culture places a heavy emphasis on the values of 
food safety. We ensure that every employee accepts these values and puts 
them into practice.
New employees must review and sign the Yum China Code of Conduct 
Confirmation Letter (applicable to office employees) and the Employee 
Handbook Confirmation Letter (applicable to restaurant employees). These 
documents enable employees to understand that food safety is the top 
priority for Yum China and that they must strictly abide by national laws and 
regulations and the Company's food safety related operating standards. 
Yum China continuously strengthens food safety awareness among 
employees through various employee induction online training courses 
(covering Company policies and utilizing employee compliance training 
videos), on-the-job training, and Code of Conduct Posters. 
Yum China has established a holistic internal governance system that extends from the Yum China Food Safety Committee of the Board of Directors to various functions and 
departments. This governance system provides comprehensive oversight and effective execution of various management systems, measures and standards to ensure food 
safety and compliance.
Board of Directors
Food Safety Committee of 
the Board of Directors
Supply Chain
Management TeamYum China
Management Team
Quality Assurance Team
Brand Restaurant
Operations TeamsCorporate Risk Assessment Roundtable
 Brand, supply chain, public affairs and other departments regularly 
assess food safety and other risks
 Develop strategies and control measures to advance execution from 
top to bottom
Comprehensive and Holistic Governance System3
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for overseeing Yum 
China’s risk management framework
Yum China Food Safety Committee of the Board of Directors
 Established in 2017, currently consists of four members of the Board 
of Directors
 Assists the Board of Directors in supervising food safety and quality 
management
Supply Chain Risk Assessment Meeting
 Quality assurance, food safety, procurement management and other 
departments
 Comprehensively assess risk management and control of suppliers, 
logistics, restaurants, among other areas, and formulate measures to 
prevent issues before they occur
Strict food safety audits for suppliers, logistics centers and restaurants
Coaching and improvement measures
Restaurant duty management inspections (raw material management, food 
preparation, cleaning and disinfection, employee health, among other areas)
District manager restaurant visits to inspect implementation
Yum China
Food Safety Advisory 
Committee
Established in 2006, invites experts 
from various fields to contribute to 
food safety at Yum China
By the end of 2018, 26 expert 
meetings have been held
Yum China’s core competitive advantage and value proposition are our expertise and focus on food safety from farm to fork. For more than 30 
years, we have invested enormous time, people and financial resources to build a holistic supply chain management system. This encompasses all 
aspects from suppliers and their upstream management, to logistics and distribution management, to restaurant management. This management 
system integrates advanced global standards and management experience, while strictly complying with all relevant laws and regulations in China 
and has been developed in accordance with the actual situation in China. In 2018, Yum! Brands conducted an audit of Yum China's food safety 
system and its implementation. The audit results showed that Yum China has established an outstanding food safety culture and a first-class food 
safety system. The audit also found that the functioning of Yum China’s management system is highly effective.From Farm to Fork, Trust in Every Bite
✓ Food safety culture
✓ Multi-level food safety 
management system
✓ Multi-party cooperation
 to prevent risks✓ Industry leading professional 
team
✓ Robust supplier, logistics 
and restaurant food safety 
quality systems✓ Efficient and smart supply chain  management
✓ Comprehensive food safety risk 
monitoring and management 
✓ Strategies responding to critical industry 
issues
	• Traceability system
• Upstream management 
requirements
• Farm register system 
• Broiler veterinary drug 
register and expert review 
system
• Upstream evaluation systemUpstream 
Suppliers
• Supplier approval system
• Food safety and quality 
audits
• Material specification
• Yum China food safety 
sampling tests
• Supplier training
• Supplier performance 
evaluationSuppliers
• Receiving checks
• Cold chain management
• Employee training
• Food safety and quality 
audits 
• Pest controlLogistics 
Centers
• Operating standards
• Employee training
• Product quality inspections 
• Integrated pest control  
• Food safety auditsRestaurants
• Delivery platform and riders 
management 
• Delivery operation 
standards 
• Employee training
• Food protection sealsDeliveryYum China Food Safety and Quality Management
Yum China has built an industry leading supply chain management team that includes the Food Safety, Quality Assurance, Procurement Management, Logistics, and 
Engineering functions to implement effective and direct management of the supply chain. By the end of 2018, the team had more than 1,500 professionals with clear 
management functions and responsibilities (see table below). The scale and professionalism of this team is unrivalled in the industry.
FunctionsFood Safety
Office
• Food safety and 
compliance management
• Regulations and 
standards enforcement
• Risk monitoring, risk 
alerts and assessmentsEngineering 
Department
• Equipment innovation
• Packaging innovation
• Kitchen model 
innovation
Procurement 
Management 
Department
• Procurement management
• Supply managementLogistics
Department
• Warehouse and logistics 
management
• Cold chain management
Quality Assurance
Department
• Supplier food safety and quality 
 management for food ingredients, 
packaging and smallwares
• Logistics center food safety 
audit and management
• Restaurant food safety audit 
and managementAn Industry Leading Supply Chain Management Team1
Poultry is an important food material for Yum China. Yum China has 
established an upstream breeding management system for poultry 
suppliers, requiring them to inspect and register farms in accordance 
with Yum China's standards. Only poultry from registered farms 
can be processed and released into the supply chain. Yum China 
also requires poultry suppliers to implement veterinary drugs 
register management. Every year, Yum China invites veterinary 
drug experts to perform compliance and scientific reviews of the 
drugs used by the suppliers and provide continuous improvement 
guidance. Working with poultry farming and safety experts, Yum 
China integrated advanced farming, perspectives, practices and 
technologies from China and abroad and compiled and published 
the “Yum China Poultry Farming Technical Manual” and the “Yum 
China Management Guidelines on the Use of Veterinary Drugs in 
Poultry Farming”. These manuals are shared with poultry suppliers to 
support their learning and compliance in this area.
肉鸡养殖技术手册
2017年6月
—— 第二版 ——
百胜中国
百胜中国
Yum China
www.yumchina.com
版权ḡ2017,百胜咨询（上海）有限公司
Copyright©2017 by
YUM! RESTAURANTS CONSULTING
(SHANGHAI) CO., LTD
版权所有，翻印必究
肉鸡养殖兽药使用
管理指南
2017年6月
—— 第二版 ——
百胜中国
百胜中国
Yum China
www.yumchina.com
版权ḡ2017,百胜咨询（上海）有限公司
Copyright©2017 by
YUM! RESTAURANTS CONSULTING
(SHANGHAI) CO., LTD
版权所有，翻印必究Yum China implements a strict supplier qualification process that includes new 
supplier compliance checks and on-site audits to ensure the supplier meets the 
standards of Yum China’s food safety and quality management system. All suppliers 
must sign Yum China’s Procurement Terms and Conditions, creating a contractual 
obligation to guarantee that all product formulas, raw material specifications, 
packaging specifications and quality assurance programs documentation provided to 
Yum China fully comply with all relevant Chinese food laws and regulations, as well 
as with Yum China’s technical standards.
In addition to in-house testing by suppliers, Yum China conducts annual unannounced 
food safety testing on raw materials including poultry and other meats, seafood, 
vegetables, seasonings, and other important raw materials. Yum China takes samples 
at supplier locations and entrusts a third-party lab with testing and only those products 
in compliance with standards can be released into the supply chain.
Our Quality Assurance Department conducts regular onsite audits of suppliers, either 
announced or unannounced to assess the effectiveness of suppliers' management 
systems, and perform a comprehensive evaluation of suppliers' food safety and 
quality performance. Supplier performance is assessed by the suppliers' on-site 
audit scores and the food safety and quality performance indicators of the food they 
supply. All suppliers are graded into three tiers of T1, T2, or T3, in accordance with 
their assessment results. T1 consists of preferred suppliers while T2 are suppliers with 
good performance who require improvement to achieve T1. T3 consists of suppliers 
that meet the requirements but need continuous improvement. In 2018, The Quality 
Assurance Department conducted more than 490 food safety and quality audits. T1 
suppliers accounted for 54%,  an increase of 11% compared to 2017.
We also promote continuous improvements of suppliers’ capabilities by providing 
feedback on their performance results, sharing best practices and hosting workshops 
and training sessions. Strict Supplier Management for Win-Win Outcomes2
Yum China operates an advanced, wholly-owned logistics system with management teams that manage a network of 20 
logistics centers, and 3 consolidation centers across China as of the end of 2018. We have robust programs to provide 
efficient, safe and reliable products and services for every restaurant in the Yum China brand portfolio.
When we established our logistics centers, we employed an advanced and comprehensive cold chain design to ensure 
that the temperature of our chillers, freezers and products meet our standards at all times. All frozen and refrigerated 
storage and transportation vehicles have been equipped with temperature recorders to track and record temperature 
changes during the transportation. Our logistics centers have also been progressively equipped with the Warehouse 
Management System (WMS), which enables product tracking from suppliers, logistics centers and restaurants to 
provide added assurance to the integrity of our supply chain. 
Each of our logistics centers is staffed with a professional quality assurance specialist who is responsible for inspecting 
storage facilities and the receipt, distribution, and unloading of goods. These centers employ unified standards, such as 
logistics center audits and performance tracking, to conduct strict audits of the logistics distribution system, including 
logistics centers and transportation.Safe and Reliable Logistics Systems3
20 logistics centers 3 consolidation
centers20 3
Create a smart cold chain logistics system Internet of Things (IoT) technology improves 
operations management
Real Time 
Monitoring
(24/7)TMS Transportation Management System
8,400+ Restaurants
OMS
Order Management System
WMS 
Warehouse Management SystemIoT Application
Vehicle In-transit 
Status MonitoringCloud
Big Data
AI
Application
AR Assisted 
RecognitionWarehouse
IT OTTransportation
Restaurant Office
Sensors & Controllers
Edge NetworksIoT
Yum China has adopted industry-leading restaurant operating standards and procedures 
to ensure that each restaurant implements consistent food safety standards and 
serves food that is consistent in quality and taste. Restaurant operating standards 
and procedures include the receipt of raw materials, food and raw material storage 
temperature control, shelf-life management, thawing & cooking process, personal 
hygiene, and the cleaning and sanitation of utensils and equipment. During business 
hours, the restaurant duty manager is responsible for duty inspections on food safety, 
including raw material management, food preparation, cleaning, sanitation, personal 
hygiene, equipment maintenance and pest control. Area Managers will also check the 
execution of food safety and quality related standards and measures when they visit 
restaurants under their jurisdiction.
Yum China’s Quality Assurance Department regularly conducts unannounced food 
safety and Operation Excellence Checks of all restaurants covering food safety, product 
quality and customer service. We also conduct regular product quality inspections 
on main menu items, and perform microbiological testing of restaurants' utensils, 
smallwares, water, ice, and food to ensure they meet the required standards.
In 2018, our Quality Assurance Department conducted more than 16,800 Operation 
Excellence Checks at more than 8,400 restaurants across China. We also conducted 
over 90,000 sampling tests of utensils, smallwares, food materials and other relevant 
products used in the restaurants. Approximately 4,000 quality inspections on main menu 
products were also conducted.
Yum China has established its own delivery service teams for KFC and Pizza Hut. 
Our delivery management program includes close monitoring of food preparation, 
delivery time, temperature control, delivery food safety, and equipment cleaning 
and maintenance. We also require all third-party delivery partners to sign a Letter of 
Commitment on the Food Safety and Quality Practice of Delivery Food, stipulating clear 
requirements for regulatory compliance, staff management, catering requirements, 
delivery facilities, equipment and strict management of third-party platforms.
In 2018, Yum China further upgraded its delivery business model, introducing more 
detailed management measures addressing in-house platforms, restaurants, and 
delivery staff, with the aim of meeting specific targets to ensure the safety and quality 
of delivery food. For example, take-away food for all brands is sealed with tamper proof 
covers to ensure food safety throughout the delivery process.Sustained Excellence in Restaurant and 
Delivery Management4
More than 8,400 
restaurants across China8,400+ 16,800+
More than 16,800 Operation 
Excellence Checks 90,000+
Over 90,000 sampling tests 
In recent years, the catering industry has been constantly evolving. Yum China’s supply chain management team uses agile innovation methods in 
management systems and management models to always ensure the high-efficiency and reliability of Yum China’s supply chain. This innovation is 
powering the sustainable development and growth of all brands in the Yum China brand portfolio.Continuous Innovation to Improve 
Management Effectiveness
Yum China is actively using the Internet and electronic technologies to develop smart supply chain management, providing an even more effective and reliable service 
guarantee for our brands. This innovative work builds on our tried-and-tested procurement management system, food safety and quality management system and our 
logistics and delivery management systems, all of which have been established over the last 30 years. Digital Innovation to Improve the Effectiveness of Smart Supply Chain Management1
Procurement 
Management 
Platform
Logistics 
Management 
PlatformContinuous 
Innovation ProjectsFood Safety and 
Quality Assurance 
PlatformBill of Material Management 
System (BOM)
Electronic Procurement System
Electronic Contract System
JDE-ERP System
Warehouse Management 
System (WMS)
Transportation Management 
System (TMS)
Internet of Things (IoT) 
TechnologyE-QA Yum China Quality Assurance 
System
• Upstream supplier management
• Supplier and product management 
• Logistics management
• Restaurants management
AI Intelligent Material Planning System
Apply the latest technology to create a more 
robust traceability system 

Electronic Procurement Management Platform
In 2017, Yum China launched the BOM (Bill of Materials Management 
System) and E-contract (Electronic Contract System), which when 
combined with the previous electronic management systems, maximize 
the effectiveness of our procurement processes and internal control. This 
ensures the transparency, effectiveness, fairness, and rigorousness of our 
procurement activities and has enhanced our implementation efficiency 
while reducing human errors.
Smart IoT Platform
Our logistics centers are all equipped with the Warehouse Management 
System (WMS), with automated product tracking from suppliers, logistics 
centers and restaurants to provide added assurance to our supply chain 
integrity. Our various logistics centers have been equipped with advanced 
international transportation management systems enabling real-time 
tracking of all transportation vehicles in transit. Our Internet of Things (IoT) 
platform has enabled us to monitor and track the real-time temperature of 
in-transit products and vehicles, warehouse freezers and chillers to further 
raise our food safety management standards. 
Electronic Food Safety and Quality Management 
Platform
In 2013, Yum China started to build an electronic food safety and 
quality management system which has enabled the food safety and 
quality management of suppliers, logistics centers and restaurants to be 
managed on one platform. At the end of 2018, the electronic platform 
was launched encompassing the whole supply chain from farm to fork, 
including various types of suppliers and service providers, logistics and 
integration centers, and over 8,400 restaurants in China. The functions 
of this electronic platform include supplier audits, supplier food additive 
compliance verification, product specification creation, supplier performance 
assessments, consumer feedback handling, restaurant/logistics center 
audits and performance assessments. This platform also performs the 
industry's very first automatic compliance verification of raw materials 
in line with the National Food Safety Standard: Standard for the Use of 
Food Additives, which has greatly improved the accuracy and efficiency of 
decisions.Comprehensive and Dynamic Risk Monitoring 
and Management2
In March 2019, Yum China's smart 
supply chain management was 
awarded the "Restaurant Chains 
Innovation Award" by the China 
Chain Store and Franchise 
Association (CCFA) in recognition 
of the tremendous efforts Yum 
China has made in the field of 
supply chain management.
Food safety is a long-term responsibility. Due to the complexity of the food supply 
chain, Yum China always maintains a high degree of vigilance in order to ensure 
the effective operation of the food safety management system. We must pay 
close attention to potential business risks and development trends as we strive to 
guarantee food safety for every step from farm to fork. 
Classification Assessments to Strengthen Risk Management
Yum China has established a dynamic food safety risk monitoring system allowing for 
detailed quality management according to the characteristics of different types of raw 
materials and food contact materials. This system, which was established based on 
risk research and assessment, ensures effective risk management and early warning, 
and has strengthened our food safety protection systems. At the same time, risk 
assessments are regularly conducted on restaurant operations and delivery.
The Quality Assurance Department holds risk assessment meetings with relevant 
departments every month. Risk assessments are based on several factors including 
industry dynamics, media coverage, government supervision, sampling test reports, food 
laws and regulations, and supply chain management, among others. The assessments 
carefully evaluate food safety risks, quality risks, regulatory risks, food fraud and other 
risks, based on assessment levels, which contribute to the improvement of management 
systems and introduction of new management measures.
Since entering China in 1987, Yum China has become integrated in the country, continuously pursued product innovation, and developed products 
catering to the taste of Chinese consumers. In order to satisfy consumers' ever-evolving needs, we have added breakfast, afternoon tea, late-
night snacks, and take-out dining options on top of the traditional meal options. Apart from providing products that are enjoyed by consumers, 
our restaurant brands have also introduced numerous limited time new products, which has further increased the diversity of our offering, and 
enabled consumers to enjoy the latest trends. We stay in tune with the times and aim to deliver what consumers in China want. For example, as 
coffee became an increasingly popular part of modern life, we launched a new coffee brand -- COFFii & JOY in June 2018. It has proven to be very 
popular and is loved by coffee enthusiasts.
Building on its long history in China, Yum China’s brands have accumulated deep consumer loyalty and high brand awareness. Many of our 
products have successfully become staples in popular culture and are a mainstay in the daily lives of our customers. Balanced and Nutritious Meals 
Make Life Taste Great
The.test.kitchen's. beverage. area.is.equipped. with.a.variety.of.coffee.machines.. The.operator. station.
is.bright.and.spacious
Consumer.representatives.are.invited.to.conduct.sensory.tests.in.the.Innovation.CenterThe.product.development.team.develops.new.salad.products.in.the.test.kitchenThe new Yum China Innovation Center formally opened its doors in January 2019. 
It occupies over 2,500 square meters and combines research and development 
functions demonstrating our intention to continuously introduce new ideas and 
concepts, and quickly accelerate the path of innovative products to the market. The 
center employs the world's most advanced equipment, including a test kitchen, a 
sensory testing area, and a fully-equipped laboratory. The center's duties span from 
quality management, testing of equipment and restaurant technological applications, 
to the development of innovative packaging and new restaurant models, content 
production and other functions.
Yum China's KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Little Sheep, East Dawning, and COFFii 
& JOY brands all have their own food innovation teams, who are responsible 
for developing new products to match their brand’s unique identity. From KFC's 
Okinawa sea salt ice cream to Pizza Hut's durian pizza, Yum China 's brands 
introduce an average of 300 completely new or upgraded products every year. Each 
new product is subject to extensive testing and refinement before being launched.
The Innovation Center has become a core part of Yum China and its brands and 
provides a collaborative innovation platform in which partners and industry experts 
can cooperate closely to enhance customer experiences.The New Yum China Innovation Center1
Disruptive product innovation
New flavors of signature productsExpansion of new product categories
Introduction of disruptive value productsConstant Product Innovation to Meet Customers' Diversified Needs
Yum China's various brands actively investigate consumers' needs and introduce new products that have been developed with a multidimensional approach, including :More Product Choices2

Enriched product selections at different times
Development of festival productsCustomized products and services for delivery
Creation of new brands

Focus on Kid's Nutrition and Health
Yum China attaches great importance to the nutrition and health of children in China. The Nutrition 
Principles of Dining for School-Age Children in Restaurants (referred to below as "Nutrition 
Principles"), released by the Chinese Nutrition Society in July 2017, specify that children’s meals 
should include a large variety of foods, including staple foods, vegetables, fruits, meat-based foods, 
eggs and milk. Both KFC and Pizza Hut have introduced Kid’s Meals that comply with these Nutrition 
Principles. These meals provide children with balanced food that tastes delicious and are also healthy 
and nutritious. KFC's Kid’s Meals include a chicken and ham panini, sweet corn sticks and milk. Pizza 
Hut’s Kid's Meals include meat sauce spaghetti, shrimp in herbs, fruits and vegetables salad and milk.Multiple Cooking Methods to Lock in
Delicious Flavors 
In addition to expanding our menu options, we enhance choices 
and nutritional value through the application of multiple cooking 
methods in the preparation of food. These methods include frying, 
roasting, boiling, sautéing and grilling and combining modern food 
technologies with traditional cooking methods, while bringing the 
best flavors and most consistent food quality to our customers.A Wide Variety of Ingredients to Choose from Grains, Fruits, Vegetables, and Beans for Balanced Diet
In addition to traditional high-quality meat ingredients, Yum China also uses grains, fruits and vegetables, beans, nuts and other ingredients to enrich menu choices to 
provide customers with balanced meals. For example, in 2018 Yum China used more than 60 varieties of fruits and vegetables in restaurants as part of products like 
burgers, pizzas, salads and beverages. Some of the items used include butterhead lettuce, cucumber, potato, green bell pepper, cherry tomato, lemon, onion, leaf lettuce, 
and green kumquat, among others. In 2018, Yum China purchased more than 48,000 tons of fruits and vegetables, with an over 12% increase compared to 2017. 

In addition to providing consumers a wide range of delicious meal choices, Yum China also supports scientific research, universal nutritional health 
awareness and food safety knowledge as important corporate social responsibilities. For many years, we have continuously supported scientific 
research on nutrition and diet through the CNS-Yum China Dietary Health Foundation, as well as supported and promoted popular science 
activities on nutritional health and food safety. We are contributing to society by supporting the Chinese government's "Healthy China" strategy.Popularize Scientific Research and 
Promote Health Awareness 
Academician. Chen.Junshi.presents. the.project.owners. sponsorship. certificates. at.the..
CNS-Yum. China.Dietary.Health.Foundation's. Annual.Convention. &.th.Annual.Dietary.Health.
Symposium.The CNS-Yum China Dietary Health Foundation was established by Yum China in 
conjunction with the Chinese Nutrition Society. It is a public-interest research fund 
that aims to promote balanced nutrition and improve the dining habits of Chinese 
citizens. The Foundation builds on the success of the KFC China Health Foundation, 
which was jointly established by Yum China and the China Red Cross Foundation in 
2007.
By the end of 2018, the Foundation had provided over RMB 17 million in support 
of over 60 programs. Since its inception, the Foundation has grown to become the 
largest and most influential fund dedicated to dietary health research in China.
17,000,000+
Provided over RMB 17 million
60+
Supported over 60 programsSupport Scientific Research on Healthy Meals1
Chinese Nutrition Society (CNS) - Yum China Dietary Health Foundation
On November 27, 2018 the CNS-Yum China Dietary Health Foundation announced a list of projects funded by the Foundation in 2018. At the same 
time, Yum China also held the 11th Annual Dietary Health Symposium with the theme of “A 40-Year Journey of Dietary Health”.
Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China, noted: "Having entered China in 1987, Yum China has grown alongside the development of the country over the course 
of 40 years of reform and opening up, and has always insisted on providing delicious, nutritious food to consumers. In the future, we will continue to 
cooperate with the academic sector in promoting the development of dietary health and nutrition.” 
Academician, Chen Junshi, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE), commented: "China's progress on nutritional health has 
developed considerably over the course of 40 years of reform and opening up. The announcement of the Healthy China 2030 Planning Outline and the 
2017-2030 National Nutrition Plan reveal the emphasis the country now places on nutritional health. As a scientific research foundation focusing on diet 
and nutrition, the CNS-Yum China Dietary Health Foundation has an important impact on the promotion of balanced nutrition and a healthy lifestyle."
Alice.Wang,.Yum.China's.Chief.Public.Affairs.Officer,.gave.a.speech.at.the.. National. Nutrition. Week.
launch.ceremony.event.of.the."Beijing.On-campus.University.Student.Healthy.Lifestyle.Survey.Report."
In addition to supporting scientific research, Yum China has long regarded the 
promotion of popular science and healthy lifestyles as important aspects of its 
corporate social responsibility, and it actively promotes public health education.
National Nutrition Week is a campaign initiated by several organizations 
and led by the Chinese Nutrition Society. This campaign aims to promote 
the concept of nutrition and health and popularize nutrition knowledge. Yum 
China has provided support to National Nutrition Week for three consecutive 
years. During National Nutrition Week’s from 2016 to 2018, we distributed 
80 million National Nutrition Week-themed paper placemats throughout 
KFC restaurants across the country. We also employed various methods 
in different parts of the country to support public interest nutritional health 
activities conducted by local nutrition associations and relevant organizations.
In line with the 2018 National Nutrition Week slogan of “Smart Eating and 
Smart Exercising for a Healthy Body Weight”, we not only continued to 
issue thematic paper placemats at KFC restaurants, but also organized a 
team to participate in the Chinese Nutrition Society’s "Smart Eating and 
Smart Exercising: 100-Day Weight Loss Charitable Activity", which aimed 
to promote a healthy lifestyle through balanced diet and exercise. This team 
ended up in 5th place in the nationwide event and received recognition from 
the Chinese Nutrition Society. 
KFC.invited.influential.sports.figures.to.join.the.team.to.promote.National.Nutrition.WeekNutrition and Health Awareness2
YUMC Cup Food Safety and Nutritional Health 
Knowledge Competition
In May 2018, with support from relevant government departments 
and six universities in Zhejiang Province, Yum China launched the 
11th YUMC Cup Food Safety and Nutritional Health Knowledge 
Competition. Compared with the previous 10 years of the Food Safety 
and Nutritional Health Knowledge Competition, the 2018 YUMC Cup 
was significantly upgraded and this year’s participating teams were 
stronger and more diverse than ever before. This year the YUMC Cup  
used a series of rigorous and engaging methods to increase university 
students' food safety and nutritional health interest and knowledge, 
enhance their familiarity with the relevant science, and encourage 
them to contribute to sharing scientific knowledge about food safety 
and nutritional health with others. 
Guo.Song.(left),.head.of.the.Cultural. Exchange. Center. of.the.China.Youth.&.Children .
Development.and.Service.Center,.and.Alice.Wang,.Yum.China's.Chief.Public.Affairs.Officer,.jointly .
hosted.the.ceremony. announcing. Yum.China's. designation. as.a."National. Youth.Food.Safety.
Education.Experience.Activity.Base".
Promote Food Safety Education3
In response to the "Building a Healthy China: Implementing a Food Safety 
Strategy" proposed by the Chinese government and promoting national youth 
health and safety "on the school campus and in the community", relevant 
departments of the China Youth & Children Development and Service 
Center jointly initiated the "National Youth & Children Food Safety Education 
Campaign." Starting in 2016, and as the sole co-organizer of this activity, Yum 
China has actively fulfilled its corporate social responsibilities and food safety 
strategy through a series of distinctive activities in line with the goal of "ensuring 
food safety and promoting healthy development."
In order to make these activities livelier and more interesting, and through its 
long-term corporate social responsibility initiative titled “KFC Store Visit”, Yum 
China opened its kitchens, logistics facilities and animal breeding locations for 
field trips where youth could learn about and experience food safety in practice. 
These field trips enabled participants to personally produce hamburgers and 
understand the white-feather chicken growth process, among other highlights. 
These hands-on experiences helped to eliminate misconceptions, increase food 
safety knowledge, and spread awareness of the importance of balanced nutrition 
and exercise for a healthy life. Building on the strong foundations established 
during the previous two years, in 2018 Yum China and its partners conducted 
more than 300 activities nationwide teaching over 20 million people.
On April 3, 2018, in recognition of Yum China's efforts to 
promote youth food safety education, the China Youth & Children 
Development and Service Center conferred the honorary title of 
“National Youth Food Safety Education Experience Activity Base”   
on Yum China.Honorary Title of "National Youth Food 
Safety Education Experience Activity 
Base"
Reduce Reuse Recycle Replace
Environment
Yum China has always been committed to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. As the largest restaurant company in China, Yum China is committed to 
environmental protection and strives to reduce the environmental impact of our operations whilst providing customers with a variety of safe and delicious food. 
Yum China has integrated environmental protection as an important part of our sustainability strategy and putting our core values into practice, including by addressing 
stakeholder expectations and aligning with regulatory and policy developments in relation to environmental protection. 
We recognize that what we do today will matter tomorrow.Our Environment Reduce Reuse Recycle Replace
We adhere to sustainability in the design, construction and operation of our restaurants, and apply various technologies and management methods for 
the benefit of our customers and the environment;Pursue Breakthrough
Believe in & Support Each Other
We promote sustainaibility and share best practices with our supplier partners to create a sustainable industry ecosystem, with a focus on environment 
protection and social responsibility.
Give Back
We promote sustainability within the communities and societies in which we operate and hope that our actions will help raise public awareness of 
environmental protection.  
Yum China has identified environmental priorities after the evaluation of materiality aspects in the value chain, while taking into consideration 
leading ESG rating systems and tracking the emerging issues and trends in our industry. We have set challenging goals and commitments for 
environmental priorities and refer to these goals to drive our constant progress in protecting the environment.Implement Environmental Strategies 
to Fulfill Commitments
We care about the environment and minimizing our  
environmental footprint.
We continuously improve our restaurant 
operational processes to ensure compliance 
with regulatory and policy developments, while 
achieving alignment between environmental 
protection and restaurant operations;
We embrace new technologies, such as 
artificial intelligence, Internet of Things (IoT), 
environmentally friendly materials, high-
performance equipment and waste management, 
as we continue to apply and promote energy-
saving initiatives in our restaurants to reduce 
consumption and emissions;
We help raise public awareness of environmental 
protection and promote energy-saving initiatives 
without compromising customers’ in-store dining 
experience;
We continuously monitor industry trends in our 
supply chain to reduce sustainability risks.We regularly recalibrate our challenging goals and commitments to reflect evolving environmental 
priorities and ensure continuous improvement. Our Vision1 Our Goals and Commitments3
Environmental Priority Goal and Commitment
Note:. ..Energy.efficiency,.carbon.emissions.and.water.efficiency.goals.are.developed.using.a..baseline...
.  ..The.goal.and.commitment .of.Sustainable .Restaurants .cover.all.company-owned .and.unconsolidated .affiliates .
restaurants.
. ..See.detailed.progress.towards.goals.and.commitments.in.".Sustainability.Highlights".(Page.).Sustainable 
RestaurantsEnergy Efficiency /
Carbon Emissions10%
Reduce average restaurant energy and GHG 
emissions by an additional 10% by 2025.
All consumer facing, plastic based packaging  
is recyclable.
Sustainable 
Packaging10%
Reduce average restaurant water consumption 
by an additional 10% by 2025.
Water Efficiency
100%
Design and build all new restaurants in 
accordance with the Yum China Green 
Building Standards.
Green Building
Sustainable 
Supply ChainOnly purchase RSPO certified palm oil.
Refuse to purchase paper products from suppliers 
that cause deforestation.
Sustainable 
SourcingComplete CSR audits on all critical suppliers.
Responsible 
Sourcing2Seize Opportunities and
Meet Challenges
In order to achieve our stated environmental goals and guide our environmental protection activities, we have developed the Yum China Sustainability 4R Principles: 
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, and Replace. While building sustainable restaurants, we are actively sharing and promoting our sustainability concepts and practices with our 
suppliers to create a sustainable ecosystem.
In 2018, the Yum China Sustainability Award  was launched to recognize those who have made outstanding contributions to 
sustainability at Yum China.
Used cooking oil converted into Biodiesel
Waste sorting in restaurants
Use of recyclable plastic materialsUse of reusable packaging solution 
(FOH & BOH)
Apply reusable decoration materialsOur Sustainability 4R Principles4
Replace plastic packaging with bio-
degradable materials 
Purchase sustainable palm oil
Refuse to purchase fiber from sources that 
contribute to deforestation
Use of energy-saving equipment 
Reduce waste generation
Reduce disposable packaging
Reduce GHG emissions
Reduce energy consumption
Reduce water consumption
                                                                                         
                              
Reduce
Reuse
RecycleReplace
Supply ChainRestaurants
Yum China currently operates more than 8,400 restaurants throughout China. We are aware of the environmental impact of our operations. As the 
largest restaurant company in China, we always follow the principle of sustainability when designing, building, and operating restaurants. Guided 
by the Sustainability 4R Principles, we continuously apply innovative technologies and management tools to reduce our environmental footprint.Develop Sustainable Restaurants
140,000 tons
140,000 tons of water conservation achieved.
9,000 tons
8,000 tons of paper and 1,000 tons of plastic 
materials reduced.1,100 tons
1,100 tons of cooking oil reduced.14,000,000 kWh
14,000 MWh of electricity conservation achieved.
NO.1
First restaurant company in China to get the ISCC 
certification for its used cooking oil that will be 
converted into sustainable biodiesel. 100%
All newly-built restaurants meet the Yum China 
Green Building Standards.10,000 tCO 2e
10,000 tCO2e of GHG emissions reduced.
2018 Achievements
Reduce the amount of waste we 
generate, including food waste and 
used cooking oil, and continuously 
explore new opportunities for 
recycling.Apply energy and water saving 
technologies and management to 
reduce GHG emissions.Reduce single use packaging 
through weight reduction and 
innovative technologies;
Replace traditional packaging with 
more sustainable and recyclable 
designs and materials.Update and implement the Yum 
China Green Building Standards to 
develop sustainable restaurants. 
Yum China is aware of the importance of restaurant waste management. We comply with the relevant national and local laws and regulations and have developed strict 
restaurant waste management processes with a focus on food waste, used cooking oil and packaging. We strive to explore opportunities to reduce the amount of waste 
generated from our restaurants and actively implement waste recycling.
Reduce-Reducing waste generation
We continue to promote the use of innovative fryers and the optimized processes in 
our restaurants. In 2018, approximately 1,000 oil-saving fryers were installed to save 
more than 1,100 tons of cooking oil.
Recycle-Turning waste into resources
We actively explore new ways to recycle used cooking oil. For example, a pilot 
project was conducted in Chengdu to ensure that all used cooking oil at company-
owned KFC restaurants in the city was successfully converted into biodiesel. Having 
met the necessary requirements, Yum China is proud to be the first restaurant 
company in China to get the ISCC certification for its used cooking oil that will be 
converted into sustainable biodiesel. 
Waste sorting
In 2016, we piloted waste sorting projects at our restaurants to build capacity for 
the resource utilization of waste. All restaurants are required to actively sort waste 
and fully comply with local government requirements. We provide garbage bins with 
a waste sorting function to encourage customers to sort their waste. By the end of 
2018, Yum China had installed approximately 1,500 waste sorting garbage bins in 
more than 570 KFC restaurants.Create Value from Waste Reduction 1
Convert Used Cooking Oil into Biodiesel
:.Signature.Program
Joey.Wat,.CEO.of.Yum.China.receives. the.ISCC.certificate. from.Vasu.R..Vasuthewan,. Board.Member. of.
ISCC. "We are very proud to be the first restaurant company in China to 
supply its ISCC Certified used cooking oil as a sustainable feedstock 
for biodiesel production. The pilot biodiesel conversion project and the 
introduction of the reusable serving baskets in our KFC restaurants 
underlines our commitment to improving sustainability throughout our 
value chain, while making a greater positive impact on society and the 
environment. We will continue to leverage our strengths and scale to 
play a greater role in helping build a sustainable future for our planet and 
we will encourage our people, our partners, the communities we operate 
in, as well as the millions of customers we serve, to contribute as well. 
Guided by our principles of “reduce, reuse, recycle, and replace”, we 
strive to explore innovative opportunities and leverage new technologies 
to build sustainable and environmentally friendly restaurants.”
- Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China 
	
The issuing Certification Body i s responsible for the accuracy of this document. 
Version / Date: 3 / 01.03.2019 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 Certificate 
according to the 
Renewable Energy Directive (RED) 
(Directive 2009/28/EC on the promotion of the use of energy fro m renewable sources amended 
through Directive (EU) 2015/1513) 
 
Certificate Number: EU-ISCC-Cert-IT206-1076086 
 
RINA Services S.p.A. 
Via Corsica, 12 16128 Genova ITALY 
certifies that 
Yum! Restaurants (Chengdu) Co., Ltd 
Xiyu Street, No. 3&5, Leading Center, East Tower 21st Floor, 
Chengdu City, Sichuan Province, 610015 
China 
complies with the requirements of the RED and the certification  system 
ISCC EU 
(International Sustainability and Carbon Certification) 
which is approved by the European Commission. 
This certificate is valid from 12.02.2019 to 11.02.2020 
The site of the system user is certified as:
Point of Origin 
Warehouse 
            
 
Genova, 12/02/2019   Head of Sustainability & Food 
Certification Compliance Unit 
Place and date of issue   Stamp, Signature of issuing party  
In 2018, Yum China began to explore ways of recycling used cooking oil with the aim 
of making a greater contribution to society and the environment. One of the actions we 
explored was the conversion of used cooking oil into biodiesel. 
In October 2018, Yum China officially launched our first biodiesel conversion pilot project 
in Chengdu to ensure that all used cooking oil at all 80 or so company-owned KFC 
restaurants in the city was successfully converted into biodiesel. In accordance with the 
ISCC certification process, a comprehensive data recording and tracking system was 
established to collect information at every stage of the conversion process, covering 
participating restaurants, waste collection companies, used oil storage sites and 
biodiesel plants. At the same time, to ensure the independence of used oil collection and 
storage channels, Yum China installed a dedicated used oil storage tank at the used oil 
storage location of our partner in Chengdu.
In February 2019, Yum China (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. successfully obtained ISCC Point of 
Origin certification and the use of the dedicated used oil storage tank located at the used 
oil storage location also obtained ISCC Warehouse certification.
Convert Used Cooking Oil into Biodiesel: Tracking Every Step
Collect
Recycle
Convert01
03
02Restaurant staff 
count the amount 
of used oil
Waste.
collection.
companies
Used.oil.
storageParticipating.
restaurants
Comprehensive
.data.recording.and
tracking.system
Biodiesel
plantsOthersDedicated used 
oil storage tanksComprehensive data recording 
and tracking system
Biodiesel will be used for
Public transport, power generation, 
logistics transportation, public services 
and more.IoT tracking system
Government certified 
third-party waste 
collection companies
ISCC Point of Origin Certifi cation ISCC Warehouse CertificationCover participating restaurants, waste 
collection companies, used oil storage 
sites and biodiesel plants.
We recognize that the environmental impact of single use 
packaging is a common challenge that our industry needs to 
tackle together. Single use packaging provides convenience to 
customers but consumes energy during production and creates 
an environmental burden when discarded. Therefore, we actively 
follow the Sustainability 4R Principles when developing and 
implementing sustainable packaging initiatives. In October 2018, 
we officially launched a sustainable packaging environmental 
protection campaign under the theme of "Less Packaging for a 
Better Environment."Reduce-Reducing packaging weight
We are continuously improving our packaging design to achieve 
the same performance with less material without compromising 
customers’ in-store dining experience. As of December 2018, 
we have successfully reduced the weight of more than 15 types 
of single use packaging, which can save over 8,000 tons of 
paper and 1,000 tons of plastic annually.
Reuse-Replacing single use packaging with 
reusable packaging
We actively promote innovation in the way we apply new solutions 
and technologies to reduce single use packaging. Since October 
2018, KFC reusable serving baskets have been gradually rolled out 
nationwide.  
Recycle-Using recyclable plastic packaging 
materials
To support waste sorting, we are committed to the use of recyclable 
plastic materials for all existing and future plastic packaging items.
Replace-Adopting new environmentally 
friendly materials
We pay close attention to industry trends and actively search for 
solutions to replace plastic packaging with environmentally friendly 
materials. In line with local government requirements, we have 
adopted biodegradable materials as a replacement for plastic bags, 
plastic cups, straws, and other plastic packaging at restaurants in 
Hainan and Yunnan provinces.
Under the theme "Less Packaging for a Better Environment", we 
continue to explore and promote innovative solutions to reduce the 
environmental impact of single use packaging. Save over 9,000 tons of 
paper and plastic annuallyLess Packaging for a Better Environment2
9,000+
The KFC reusable serving basket is one of the sustainable packaging projects 
promoted under our "Less Packaging for a Better Environment" campaign. The 
reusable serving basket replaces various types of single use paper packaging for 
fries, chicken products and snacks. 
The introduction of reusable serving baskets has changed the traditional dining 
habits of customers. In order to meet the challenge of achieving environmental 
protection goals while maintaining customers’ in-store dining experience, KFC 
spent two years designing the reusable serving basket and optimizing restaurant 
operations. The reusable serving basket, developed in-house, offers improved 
presentation compared to single use packaging, and enables customers to freely 
take and share foods when dining. The specially designed oil-absorbent paper 
placemat ensures excellent food hygiene and also facilitates the re-packing and 
carrying of uneaten foods. Furthermore, the use of these reusable serving baskets 
enhances operational efficiency and shortens the waiting time for customers.
The reusable serving baskets were introduced to all restaurants nationwide in 
February 2019. As a result, KFC restaurants across the country are expected to save 
more than 2,000 tons of paper annually and the total amount of waste in restaurants 
will be reduced by approximately 20% on average.
2,000+
Save more than 2,000 
tons of paper annually 20%
Reduce approximately 20% 
on average of the total amount 
of waste in restaurants 
As part of its on-going efforts to reduce consumption and 
protect the environment, KFC donated funds to the China 
Green Foundation to support the revitalization of more than 
one million square meters of grassland in the Siziwang 
Banner region of Inner Mongolia. This project is also the 
first demonstration project backed by enterprises for the 
sustainable revitalization of grasslands. 
In April 2019, KFC joined hands with the China Green 
Foundation, under the guidance of the Grassland Management 
Department of the National Forestry and Prairie Bureau, to 
launch the revitalization initiative, in part to enhance public 
awareness of grassland ecology.
After enjoying meals in the reusable serving baskets, customers 
have the opportunity to scan a QR code printed on oil-absorbent 
paper placemat to help revitalize one square meter of virtual 
grass on the “Grandpa Kentucky Prairie” located in the Siziwang 
Banner region of Inner Mongolia.Reusable Serving Baskets
: Signature.ProgramStory
As Yum China’s business continues to grow year by year, energy consumption will inevitably increase. Guided by the Sustainability 4R Principles, we continue to promote the 
application of energy saving equipment in our restaurants for higher efficiency. At the same time, we include energy efficiency into the performance evaluation criteria of our 
restaurant management teams, thus making it one of the most important aspects in the daily operation of restaurants. We are working hard to reduce our energy consumption 
and the impact of our restaurant operation on the environment.
In 2018, through energy-saving equipment and an energy management system at our restaurants, we saved approximately 14,000 MWh of power, the equivalent to reducing 
GHG emissions by roughly 10,000  tCO2e.
In 2018, average electricity consumption and GHG emissions per restaurant were reduced by roughly 3.8% compared to 2017. 
Notes:.In.,. Yum.China.had.no.Scope.. GHG.emissions.. All.Scope.. GHG.emissions. were.attributable. to.electricity. consumption.. In.,. Yum.China's.total.electricity. consumption. was.,,MWh,. and.
total.energy.indirect.GHG.emissions.(Scope.).was...million.tCO e.
Kitchen cooking fume 
exhaust control system High-efficiency DC air 
conditioning systemHeat pump water heater All-restaurant LED 
lighting
• ~1,300 systems installed 
• ~2,800MWh saved• ~800 restaurants installed 
• ~3,800MWh saved• ~600 systems installed 
• ~5,000MWh saved• ~1,000 restaurants installed 
• ~3,000MWh savedGHG Reduction and Energy Efficiency 3
Yum China is committed to reducing the impact of water consumption in restaurant operations by strengthening water resources management. We actively explore and 
promote the application of water-saving equipment, and include water efficiency into the performance evaluation criteria of our restaurant management teams. As a result, 
water management has become an important aspect of the daily operation of restaurants.
China is one of the countries with the lowest per capita water resources in the world. In 2017, we worked with the World Resources Institute (WRI) to assess water resources 
in the areas where Yum China’s restaurants are located. Based on the assessment results, we will prioritize the application of water-saving equipment to the areas where 
water resources are extremely or relatively scarce.Water Management to Protect Resources4
In 2018, we developed an electrostatic thawing solution that can help KFC 
restaurants reduce water consumption by 20% compared with the traditional 
thawing equipment We expect to roll out this solution in water-deficient areas in 
the second half of 2019.
In 2018, we continued to install water-saving faucets in newly-built company-
owned restaurants, which consume 50% less water than the traditional faucets. 
The annual water saving has been about 140,000 tons. 
Through the application of water-saving initiatives and enhanced management, 
the average water consumption per restaurant has continued to decrease over 
recent years, with a further 3.5% reduction in 2018 compared to 2017.  
Note: In 2018, Yum China's total water consumption was 26.40 million tons.
Yum China’s business in China continues to grow with hundreds of new restaurants nationwide each year. We design and build all new restaurants in accordance with the 
Yum China Green Building Standards, which embody the principle of sustainability, fully consider environmentally friendly building materials whenever feasible, and take 
into consideration aspects such as ergonomics, noise control, indoor air quality, and humidity and temperature control. In addition to enhancing customers' in-store dining 
experience, these standards provide a safer and more comfortable working environment for our employees. 
Yum China 
Green Building 
StandardsWe follow the highest 
level of ventilation in the 
China national restaurant 
standards to ensure 
fresh air systems.
We select direct current 
inverter air conditioning 
of leading brands 
to ensure constant 
temperature control with 
less fluctuations.
We fully consider 
ergonomics to ensure 
comfort of employees 
and customers.We select LED 
lights certified by 
photobiosafety and of 
leading brands to protect 
customers' vision health.The noise level of 
our selected kitchen 
equipment meets 
the China national 
standards.All the materials sourced  
are from industry leading 
suppliers, and some 
materials selected 
exceed the China 
national standards.Green Building for Comfort and Health5
We are proud that in 2018, all newly-built restaurants are in full compliance 
with the Yum China Green Building Standards. 
Create a Sustainable Supply Chain
In addition to developing sustainable restaurants, Yum China actively shares and promotes sustainability concepts and best practices with our 
supplier partners in order to jointly create a sustainable supply chain.
We practice responsible sourcing and implement 
the CSR audit program to ensure suppliers 
are legally compliant in areas such as child/
minor labor, forced labor, health and safety, 
discrimination, disciplinary measures, working 
hours, wages and benefits, environmental 
management and security.
Our responsible sourcing focuses on social and 
environmental impacts in our supply chain to 
create a sustainable industry ecosystem. We 
refuse to purchase palm oil and paper products 
from suppliers that cause deforestation. We place emphasis on emerging issues and 
trends in our industry such as animal welfare, 
Genetically Modified Organism (GMO), veterinary 
drugs, pesticides and food additives. 2018 Achievements100%
100%100%
RSPO Member100% of critical suppliers have completed CSR audits.
100% of purchased palm oil is certified by RSPO.100% of suppliers have signed the 
Yum China Supplier Code of Conduct.
We continue to be a member of RSPO and 
support the production of sustainable palm oil.
Yum China has a large and geographically dispersed network of suppliers 
covering food, packaging, equipment and services. We implement a 
responsible sourcing policy and we leverage our own practice that has a 
positive impact on suppliers. We also work together with our suppliers to create 
a supply chain that operates in accordance with the law, in a regulated and 
standardized way, and proactively assumes corporate social responsibility. 
In order to enhance our suppliers’ awareness and capabilities in risk 
management, we cooperate with third-party institutes to conduct the on-
site Business Continuity Management (BCM) audit, which identifies the risks 
faced by suppliers in terms of assets and operations and then recommends 
preventive measures. In addition, we encourage suppliers to extend risk 
management and best practice to their upstream suppliers to enhance the 
sustainability of the entire supply chain.
We include CSR and BCM, along with innovation, quality, safety, and cost 
optimization, as performance evaluation criteria in the Yum China Business 
Review for supply chain management.  Supplier Classification Management
Supplier Code of ConductTo ensure the effectiveness of our supplier management, reduce supply chain 
management risks, and enhance management efficiency, we sort all suppliers into 
four categories - innovative suppliers, key suppliers, regular suppliers and other 
suppliers - based on their innovative capabilities, key raw materials and procurement 
volume. Among them, innovative suppliers and key suppliers are our critical 
suppliers, providing us with critical raw materials and services.
In 2018, we had about 200 critical suppliers, whose combined purchases accounted 
for roughly 80% of our total procurement volume. 
All suppliers must sign the Yum China Supplier Code of Conduct before they can 
do business with Yum China. Suppliers must comply with all applicable laws and 
regulations, including the US "Foreign Corrupt Practices Act", which prohibits 
suppliers from participating in or suspected involvement in any behavior in which 
employees of Yum China obtain personal benefit in conflict with the interests of Yum 
China (including but not limited to donations of cash or goods with equivalent value, 
preferential treatment, payments, debt with creditor's rights, or provision of shares). 
Suppliers must guarantee that all upstream suppliers also uphold this Code of 
Conduct.Responsible Sourcing and Risk Management1
Note:.In.,.our.total.number.of.suppliers.exceeded...
In addition to complying with the Supplier Code of Conduct, our suppliers 
must be assessed by CSR audit. We engage professional third-party 
auditing firms to perform on-site audits to evaluate their performance.
Our audits focus on the sustainability risks that suppliers may face, 
including but not limited to child/minors labor, forced labor, health and 
safety, discrimination, disciplinary measures, working hours, salaries and 
benefits, environmental management, security, and more. We require the 
suppliers to make and implement a corrective action plan for any identified 
non-compliance issue in a timely manner to control the risk.
We continue to implement the CSR audit program. In 2018, all critical 
suppliers were assessed and graded A or B. The CSR performance of 
Yum China’s suppliers has improved significantly.
Note:.Our.Supplier. Code.of.Conduct. and.Notification. of.Yum.China.Supplier. CSR.
Audit.are.published.on.our.official.website.Promote Supplier CSR Audit to 
Ensure Compliance
Grade A: The supplier is audited every 24 months.
Grade B: The supplier is audited every 12 months and should take corrective actions 
on non-compliance issues.
Grade C: The supplier must take immediate corrective actions and undergo a follow-
up audit.
If the follow-up audit is still graded C, the supplier is considered to be high risk and 
the partnership will be carefully reviewed by Yum China. 
2017
Established CSR audit mechanism,
About 90% of critical suppliers completed audits.2018
100% of critical suppliers completed audits.In recent years, Maiken Foods (Harbin) Co., Ltd. -Yum China's 
potato supplier-has vigorously promoted the use of drip 
irrigation, saving 36,000 tons of water per year compared with 
sprinkler irrigation.
The grading -A, B and C is generated based on the severity 
of the issues identified through third-party auditing.
Sustainable Sourcing and Win-Win Cooperation2
Fulfill Environmental Responsibilities and Protect Forest Resources 
Forests are an important resource for human survival. At Yum China, we work to create one of the best supply chains in the industry, and we are continuously making efforts 
to create a greener ecosystem. We embrace every opportunity to engage our suppliers to collectively drive environmental sustainability priorities and responsible practices. 
We prioritize sustainable sourcing initiatives based on our product impact and influence, through which we focus on the products that carry the least impact on deforestation 
and the areas where we have the most influence to create positive change.
Support Sustainable Palm Oil
Palm oil is a key raw material for Yum China and is mainly used as cooking oil at 
restaurants. We refuse to purchase palm oil from suppliers that cause deforestation. 
We are committed to working with our peers, suppliers, NGOs and other 
stakeholders to support the production of sustainable palm oil.
In 2017, we became a member of RSPO, which unites stakeholders across the 
supply chain to develop and implement global standards for sustainable palm oil.
In 2018, 100% of palm oil purchased by Yum China was RSPO certified.Support Sustainable Paper
Yum China sources paper products mainly for fiber-based packaging. We 
are committed to using environmentally preferable packaging that reduces 
the impact on forest resources. We refuse to purchase paper products 
from suppliers that cause deforestation.

As the largest restaurant company in China, Yum China pays especially close attention to social responsibility of the supply system when selecting food ingredients. In 
addition to requiring suppliers to strictly comply with the relevant national laws and regulations, we remain vigilant and pay close attention to critical issues and trends in the 
industry such as animal welfare, GMO, veterinary drugs, pesticides and food additives. We have developed strategies in response to these critical issues and in doing so we 
help promote industry development. 
Veterinary Drugs
We have comprehensive control measures regarding the use of 
veterinary drugs on livestock, poultry and aquatic products. We also 
conduct sampling tests on these products on a regular basis to ensure 
compliance with veterinary drug use as stipulated by the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Affairs. We also have in place control measures 
for upstream animal farming. To further contribute to the development 
of the industry, we worked with poultry farming and safety experts to 
publish the “Yum China Broiler Breeding Technical Manual” and the 
“Yum China Management Guidelines on the Use of Veterinary Drugs 
in Broiler Breeding”. These manuals provide guidelines to the suppliers 
to develop and apply scientific farming practices, as well as ensure 
judicious use of veterinary drugs.
GMO
Yum China respects and supports related agricultural policies of the Chinese government, and follows all laws and regulations stipulated by the Chinese 
government for the safety evaluation, approval, and control of GMO foods. Yum China will continue to monitor developments regarding GMO technology 
and GMO food, as well as related regulations and standards in China. Yum China requires all suppliers to use and supply raw materials that comply with all 
relevant laws and regulations in China.Food Additives
Yum China attaches great importance to the management of food 
additives used by suppliers. We implement the following measures:
Suppliers must provide information on the use of food additives 
in their products in accordance with national standards, thereby 
strengthening the supplier's regulatory awareness and self-
examination mechanisms.
Timely reminders are provided to suppliers of newly released 
food laws, regulations and standards to ensure they comply 
fully with new regulations.
Yum China conducts sampling tests and monitoring of related 
food ingredients.
Pesticides
Yum China has strict measures in place to ensure that all pesticides used 
in farming are under control. We implement the following measures:
Suppliers and their upstream partners must comply with all relevant 
regulations in China.
Suppliers are required to step-up their tests on pesticide residue 
in agricultural ingredients, ensuring that the agricultural products 
supplied to Yum China comply with the relevant regulations and 
food safety standards of China.
Yum China conducts sampling tests when necessary on all key 
agricultural ingredients.
Animal Welfare
We only purchase chickens from large-scale chicken suppliers that 
demonstrate and maintain compliance with animal welfare regulations 
and practices. We require these suppliers to apply science-based 
management methods and abide by relevant laws and regulations in the 
production process – from chicken breeding to processing. Additionally, 
all chicken suppliers must implement and adhere to Yum China’s animal 
welfare guidelines during poultry breeding and poultry slaughtering.Shoulder Social Responsibility and Evaluate Industry Trends
While actively building sustainable restaurants and a sustainable supply chain, we are committed to promoting sustainability concepts and 
encouraging environmental awareness for sustainable communities through diverse cooperations with local governments and environmental 
organizations across the country.Build Sustainable Communities 
KFC restaurants hold various types of environmental education 
activities. In November 2018, to advocate for new waste sorting 
regulations in Guangzhou, Guangzhou KFC joined forces with 
Guangzhou's Yuexiu District Huale Street City Management Section 
and environmental organizations to invite children and their parents 
from local communities to a "Youth Waste Sorting Education Training 
Camp". These restaurants promoted the concept of sustainability 
in the community through various activities and were held in high 
regard among parents and their children.
Guangzhou KFC Launches Waste Sorting 
Education Training Camps
Fair Care Pride 
People
restaurants employees8,400+ 450,000+Our People  "Fair, Care and Pride" Principle
Unique talents and culture are the core competencies driving Yum China 
to pioneer the future of the industry. The Company's long-term strategy 
is built on the cultural foundation of the Founder’s Mentality, striving to 
enable the Company and our employees to achieve the vision of being “The 
World’s Most Innovative Pioneer in the Restaurant Industry”. Every year, the 
Company provides employment opportunities for almost 10,000 university 
graduates.  In a working environment that emphasizes the theme "Fair, Care 
and Pride", it enables and accelerates the growth and development of young 
graduates to become pioneering talents in the food industry. Our 450,000 employees in more than 8,400 restaurants nationwide form an unbeatable 
team and are the Company’s most valuable assets. Centered around restaurant 
general managers (RGM), restaurant management teams are the main force at the 
frontline of the business; shared-service functions provide solid support and deep 
professional expertise; restaurant service crews, including energetic university 
students, represent the future of our workforce. All of them work collaboratively to 
ensure that we deliver superior food and services to our customers.
At Yum China, we believe innovation powers growth. Therefore, we make sure that 
our employees have the support and resources to explore and innovate. We take 
tremendous pride in helping our employees realize their full potential and recognizing 
and rewarding each employee who has contributed to the development of our 
Company and the industry. 
To Inspire Founder's Mentality, with Vision of 
"The World's Most Innovative Pioneer in the 
Restaurant Industry"
Our Goal
Yum China has always been committed to creating a fair, inclusive and diverse workplace for our 450,000 
employees, meanwhile actively eliminating gender discrimination and improving the prospects of female 
employees. We ensure that no less than 50% of our total workforce is female, and that women are employed, 
developed, promoted, and retained at a rate of no less than 50%.(As.of.the.end.of.)
Diversity & Equal Opportunity

Yum China is committed to providing our employees with competitive compensation 
and benefits to ensure that employees who work hard and make special contributions 
are properly recognized and rewarded. We develop a range of equity incentive 
plans catering to different employees, such as the CEO Grant Award, Performance 
Stock Unit and Restricted Stock Unit. Meanwhile, we support our diverse talents with 
customized development plans to accelerate their growth and help them become 
industry pioneers.
Yum China was one of 230 companies selected for the 2019 Bloomberg Gender-
Equality Index (GEI).
The Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI) is the world’s only comprehensive 
investment-quality data source on gender equality. The index considers internal 
company statistics, employee policies, external community support and engagement, 
and gender-conscious product offerings. The Bloomberg GEI was created to bring 
transparency to the arena of social data. 
According to Bloomberg, the 2019 GEI includes 
companies from 10 sectors headquartered across 
36 countries and regions, and mainland China is 
represented for the first time this year. Yum China 
is one of three Chinese companies chosen in the 
selection and one of only two restaurant companies 
in the world included in the index. Yum China stands 
out for its health and family care policy and best in 
class diversity and inclusion strategy.
Yum China is firmly committed to fostering a professional, inclusive and 
discrimination-free workplace for all of our 450,000 employees. By the end of the 
2018 fiscal year, Yum China employed over 275,000 women, representing 61.2% of 
our total workforce. 59% of management level positions were held by women, and 
we continue to make great progress in nurturing talented female leaders across all 
management levels. Female share of total 
management workforce
59%Female Female
Female share of total 
workforce
61.2%Founder's Mentality Inspires Industry Pioneers1
Commitment to Gender Equality and Equal 
Opportunity2
"We are very honored by our selection in the 2019 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index, 
and to be one of the first Chinese companies recognized for our efforts to promote 
equal opportunity in the workplace. Gender equality is fundamental to our People First 
philosophy which is centered around Fair, Care and Pride. We strive to create a workplace 
that encourages all of our employees to succeed, irrespective of gender. Our people are 
crucial to the future success of our business.”
- Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
“We applaud Yum China and the other 229 firms tracked by the index for their action 
to measure gender equality through the Bloomberg GEI framework. Yum China’s GEI 
inclusion is a strong indicator to its employees, investors and industry peers alike that it is 
leading by example to advance ongoing efforts for a truly inclusive workplace.”
- Peter T. Grauer
Bloomberg’s Chairman and Founder and Chairman of the American chapter of the 30% ClubMale Male

In 2018, Yum China hired more than 2,000 people with 
disabilities across 150 different cities. In the future, the 
employment rate of people with disabilities will remain above 
1.5% of full-time employees. As one of the important initiatives 
to support the employment, Yum China has introduced Angel 
Restaurants as a platform to create employment opportunities 
for them and help them to realize their potential.
Angel Restaurants 
The Angel Restaurant program is an initiative by Yum China's 
KFC brand to support disabled people and help them achieve 
personal values. KFC currently operates 23 Angel Restaurants 
located in 22 cities. Some employees in Angel Restaurants are 
people with hearing or intellectual disability. KFC has tailored 
its operations processes, modified restaurant equipment 
and revised employee trainings to best assist all the "angel 
employees" to perform at work. After comprehensive and 
systematic trainings, all "angel employees" are able to skillfully 
operate equipment, prepare products and provide customers 
with considerate, thoughtful and warm services. Provide Gainful Employment for 
People with Disabilities3
Story
The activities have not only encouraged local residents to empathize with and appreciate 
employees at the Angel Restaurants, but also other people with disabilities who live around 
them. At Yum China, we aspire to create an environment of equality and inclusion in which 
people of different backgrounds can communicate without barriers. In addition, we seek to 
leverage our own resources to provide a warm and friendly platform for them and help them 
realize their full potential and build a brighter future."Half an Hour of Silence and Love" Community Initiative
On May 20, the National Day for Helping the Disabled, Angel Restaurants in Foshan, 
Guangzhou went silent. A large sign at the entrance of the restaurants informed all 
customers that the restaurants would be "silent for half an hour", between 10:30am and 
11:00am. During this time, the restaurants turned off all background music and radios, 
provided earplugs to customers and participants and encouraged everyone to remain 
silent, effectively creating a silent environment that mimicked the world in which employees 
with hearing disability live in. Each of the restaurants included a “Wall of Love”, where 
participants could show their support and encouragement to the disabled employees. In 
addition, there were photo exhibitions showcasing images from the work and lives of these 
employees. Each photo was accompanied by a QR code so that viewers could explore 
the context behind the image. The activity also included a "silent interaction" area in which 
participants could learn sign language from the disabled employees. Restaurants also 
provided special notebooks and drawing boards to enable everyone to communicate by 
writing, instead of speaking. 
Care for Employees and Accelerate Their Growth
As one of our founding truths, Yum China has always believed in the principle that 
RGM is our No.1 leader. Yum China’s ability to cultivate talents and foster industry 
pioneers is one of the key secrets of our success. RGMs hold the most important 
leadership position in the Company and they are instrumental in driving business 
growth and customer satisfaction. As such, we never hesitate to invest in developing 
RGMs, who are not only experts in operations, but are also experts in delivering 
outstanding customer service that can drive our business forward.
Yum China has implemented a systematic training plan to provide a comprehensive 
career progression path for RGMs. Additionally, we offer stock ownership programs 
for eligible RGMs. We believe that RGMs' strong sense of ownership and pursuit 
of excellence will help Yum China continue to grow and generate good returns for 
shareholders and for RGMs themselves.In order to thank RGMs for their achievements, Yum China holds an annual 
RGM Convention that brings together RGMs from across China. At this event, 
our RGMs come together to experience and learn more about Yum China’s 
culture and development plans. At the same time, the RGM Convention also 
serves as an important platform for RGMs to share insights and experiences, 
as well as to motivate them for the year ahead.
RGM No. 1: Frontline Obsession as a Founding Truth1
On July 1, 2018, Yum China launched the RGM Family Care Program. The program is designed to offer 
additional supplemental insurance coverage for family members of eligible RGMs, who have worked at 
the RGM position for more than 2 years. More than 5,000 RGMs, together with their parents, spouses 
and children, totaling around 17,000 individuals, were among the first group to benefit from the Company-
funded program. 
The program provides RGMs’ family members with additional insurance coverage including accident 
insurance for their children, accident insurance for their spouses, and serious illness insurance for their 
parents. It also offers express medical services for RGMs’ parents including hospital appointments, 
emergency assistance, accompanied visits to the doctor, drug delivery service and health consultations.
In order to cover more beneficiaries, Yum China has made a customized arrangement with the insurance 
company to extend age of insurance coverage ceiling for parents at 75 years old, and children at 22 years old. 
The insurance program is also optional for other RGMs who can choose to participate at an affordable price. 
Yum China provides RGMs with a comprehensive training and development plan and a competitive total 
rewards. The addition of the new RGM Family Care program is part of Yum China’s "3-Year Plan" for 
RGMs that includes stock ownership, family insurance and housing subsidies. 
YUMC restricted stock worth $2,000
Become a shareholder of the 
CompanyRGM Family Care program
Protect the health of family 
members Housing Subsidies Scheme
Improve living conditions
Parents Illness Insurance and 
Express Access
Coverage ceiling of parents at 75 
years old
Spouse Accident Insurance
Coverage ceiling of spouses at 65 
years old
Child Accident Insurance
Coverage ceiling of children at 22 
years oldRGM Core Benefits
Supplementary commercial  
comprehensive insurance: outpatient, 
inpatient medical insurance, accident 
insurance, life insurance, major illness 
insurance and medical examination 
packages. Supplementary child  
commercial medical insurance: outpatient 
and inpatient medical insurance.Peace of Mind for Our Employees and Their Family Members2
"The launch of the new RGM Family Care program is 
meant to provide RGMs with the support they need. 
Around 90% of RGMs at Yum China were born in the 
1980s and 1990s. They are not just the backbone of their 
families, but they are also the pillars of our Company 
and society. This program recognizes the multiple 
responsibilities that our employees have to balance. We 
want them to create, to succeed and grow together with 
the Company.”
- Aiken Yuen, Chief People Officer, Yum China"Employees are the lifeblood of Yum China. We continue 
to invest in employee care and actively listen to their 
needs and concerns. We hope that we can do our best 
to help alleviate any worries they may have. This is the 
Company’s sincere commitment."
- Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
"I am very grateful to the Company for extending its 
insurance coverage and benefits from employees to 
include their families as well. If an employee's parents 
should suffer a serious illness, then this will help alleviate 
the financial impact on their work and lives.  This 
employee-friendly benefit will strengthen employees and 
their families' resolve to overcome any difficulties."
- Interview with family member of RGMRGM "3-Year Plan"
RGM Family  Care Program
:.Signature.ProgramRGM years of service
Stock Ownership1
year Family Care
2
year Housing Subsidies
3
year
Accelerated Career Development for 
Management Trainees
In 2018,Yum China conducted an in-depth survey among 
millennial employees to seek their views on Company 
platforms, remuneration, promotion and training. Yum 
China provides employees with training opportunities 
through a variety of advanced training programs. Through 
nearly 100% internal promotion channels and the more 
than 13 million training hours per year. Yum China provides 
every employee with a clear career development path.
KFC has a talent development system that is widely 
acclaimed in the industry. "KFC Business School" courses 
are tailored to young people with one-on-one coaching, 
systematic learning exercises and experiences sharing with 
top industry leaders. Through the School, a new restaurant 
management trainee can progress to restaurant general 
manager in as short as 22 months. This accelerated 
development program helps them lay a solid foundation for 
their future success in the restaurant industry.
Pizza Hut too is changing to attract and cultivate more 
creative young talents. The "Pizza Hut Management 
Institute" provides ambitious and high potential employees 
with professional management training and a flexible 
promotion and reward mechanism that reflects their 
learning ability and pace of development. RGMs are given 
more autonomy and responsibilities to grow into leaders for 
the innovative brand. A customized career development plan is designed for each employee as soon as they join the Company. We not only care about the wellbeing of our employees, but also 
help them to improve their market competitiveness and achieve their career ambitions. As Yum China CEO Joey Wat said, "The Company’s success is founded on the 
success of our 450,000 employees. We provide employees with broad development opportunities and support them to unlock their full potential.”Enhance Employees' Competitiveness and Fulfill Their Career Ambition3
"For young people, they must look not only at a company's current 
scale, but also its growth potential. Yum China owns mature and 
household brands, meanwhile continues to develop young brands. 
This spirit of innovation inspires continuous learning and self-
development among 450,000 employees and make us a globally 
leading innovator in the restaurant industry." 
- Aiken Yuen, Chief People Officer, Yum China
Restaurant 
General 
Manager
Sr. Assistant 
Manager
Assistant 
Manager
Management 
Trainee
KFC Marketing College
Marketing is one of the most important functions driving innovation at Yum China and it is critical in 
shaping our young and innovative brand image. In 2017, KFC established its Marketing College to 
equip our marketing professionals with the latest marketing knowledge while increasing the team’s 
innovation capability. 
Leadership Development to Build Future Readiness
The fast-changing and increasingly digital business environment places new demands on organizations. 
It is important that our leaders develop the skills needed to keep up with these developments. With the 
support of management team, the Yum China Leadership Development program aims at building the core 
competencies required for our leaders to drive the future development of the Company. 
Over the course of a year, trainees improve their strategic thinking and organizational skills in the VUCA 
(volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity) age through a variety of development activities including 
business school courses, experience learning, real-life simulations and capstone project. Their learning 
skills, influence and resilience are continuously strengthened during the program. They also learn about 
the design of agile organizations to optimize organizational performance, meet different business needs, 
as well as inspire and develop the organization's current and future capabilities.
Story
Yum China won the "Brand of the Year" award with an 
outstanding haul of 6 gold, 5 silver and 12 bronze awards at the 
2018 ROI Festival! A project, jointly initiated by KFC and the 
National Museum of China, won the Grand Prix Award. Yum 
China was the most awarded brand during the awards ceremony. 
In addition to the ROI Festival awards, Yum China has also won 
multiple domestic and international marketing awards including 6 
golds and 2 silvers at the China Great-wall Advertising Awards, 
2 silvers and 2 bronzes at the MMA Smarties China, and 2 
silvers and 2 bronzes at the China Content Marketing Awards. In 
addition, Yum China claimed gold for mobile gaming marketing 
and silver for LBS marketing at the global MMA awards!
Continuous innovation and breakthroughs led to Yum China 
winning several top awards over the course of 2018. However, 
innovation will not stop here, and in the future, we will continue 
to push ourselves and become the world's most innovative 
pioneer in the restaurant industry. 
Care and Protect Employee Wellbeing4
Compensation and Benefits
Yum China offers comprehensive compensation and benefit programs to 
ensure our employees are fully rewarded for their individual contributions to the 
Company while also helping employees drive their own career and personal 
growth. We fully comply with Labor Laws and provide our full-time employees 
with a social insurance and housing fund.Employee Rights & Responsibilities
All our employees have the right to work in a fair and safe environment. Our 
Code of Conduct holds every employee accountable for treating our colleagues 
with respect and fairness, allowing them to be recognized and rewarded based 
on their performance. We also expect all our employees and suppliers to 
comply with all applicable Chinese labor laws and regulations regarding wages, 
working hours and conditions. At Yum China, no harassment or discrimination 
on the basis of age, gender, and/or identity, ethnicity, religion, nationality, 
sexual orientation, or physical abilities is tolerated.
Ethics and Compliance
The success of Yum China is built on the integrity and ethical standards of 
our employees. The Code of Conduct demands the highest ethical standards 
at all of our operations. At Yum China, our Code of Conduct is more than 
a document – it is the foundation for the way we conduct ourselves and do 
business. It calls for the highest standards of ethical behavior from our board 
members, executives and employees. Our Code of Conduct sets forth the 
policies and procedures regarding standards of conduct that are required of 
Yum China employees. The code of conduct is intended to help our employees 
conform to the highest ethical standards possible, and to protect the reputation 
of Yum China and our employees. Every year, mandatory compliance training 
is required for every employee to keep them updated with the latest compliance 
guidelines. Yum China has also established a whistleblowing mechanism that 
enables employees to report any noncompliance in daily work. The Code of 
Conduct can be found on Yum China’s website.
Health and Safety
Yum China is committed to providing safe and healthy work environments 
and to being an environmentally responsible corporate citizen. We make it 
our policy to comply with all applicable environmental, safety and health laws 
and regulations and we ensure that our facilities protect the safety of our 
employees. We regularly review and upgrade employees' protective equipment, 
conduct workplace safety audits, and provide training to employees on proper 
equipment handling procedures and related safety precautions.Employee Communication
At Yum China, we advocate the principle of “the more you learn, the more you 
care”. Thus, we maintain multiple communication channels, online and offline, 
to enhance effective dialogues between management and employees. Through 
digital platforms such as WeChat and intranet portals, we share business 
updates and corporate messages in a timely manner. We conduct surveys on 
a regular basis to understand the needs and expectations of our restaurant 
employees and to initiate improvement plans accordingly. To offer timely and 
comprehensive support, a 24-hour hotline, operated by a dedicated team, is set 
up to respond to employee requests. 
Independent Trade Union
Independent unions were established at all Yum China companies with the 
support of the All-China Federation of Trade Unions in 2010. All employees 
are encouraged to join the unions, comply with the union regulations, carry out 
resolutions and actively participate in union activities.
"LEED" Gold Certification for Yum China Building
In 2018, the Yum China headquarters building gained LEED gold certification. LEED stands 
for "Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design" and is the most authoritative and 
influential international green building system to date. LEED evaluations look at all the 
aspects of a building including sustainable sites, water conservation, energy consumption and 
atmospheric protection, materials and resources, indoor environmental quality, innovation and 
design process to determine its impact on the environment.
From its inception, Yum China has embraced the philosophy of sustainability by emphasizing 
its care for employees and the importance of environment caring. Our commitment to 
providing a high-quality space is found in everything from the selection of eco-friendly 
materials we used to the installation of effective PM 2.5 control systems; from the innovative 
design to the rigorous construction management process.
The design of the Yum China Building emphasizes freedom and openness. The open spaces 
and social areas represent a new approach to office work that encourages collaboration and 
innovation.  At Yum China, we aim to make every work day beautiful!
Foster a Family-Like Work Environment
Yum China believes that for employees to perform their best and achieve breakthrough results, we 
have to make them feel supported in their endeavors. At Yum China, we have a “family system”, 
which is built to provide a platform for employees to connect and develop colleagues through 
common interests. In this system, each frontline leader in the restaurant takes a leading role as 
the coordinator of their team. Employees are divided into different teams based on their personal 
interests. Activities such as workshops, entertainment and competitions are held from time to time, 
to reward, inspire and motivate our employees.
At Yum China, we care about the wellbeing of our employees. Throughout the year, Yum China 
organizes various sports for office and restaurant employees, including nationwide badminton 
competitions and KFC-sponsored marathons to help employees build up physical strength. At 
RSC, a fully equipped gym and a wide range of fitness classes and nursing room are available to 
employees. Yum China also offers online stress management classes to help RGMs learn about 
how to manage stress for themselves and for their team.Story
On November 11, 2018, the 2nd Yum China 
Badminton Tournament came to a climax in 
Wuhan. Nearly 300 employees from 21 teams 
across China took part in the tournament. During 
two days of intense competition, outstanding 
badminton players across Yum China delivered 
rounds of excitement to audience.
Proud to Be a Top Employer

"While we are honored to receive the Top Employer 
certification, we will continue to explore ways to provide 
a better workplace and create more opportunities for our 
employees to become the restaurant pioneers. As the largest 
restaurant company in China, we are committed to creating 
an environment where everyone can make a difference to our 
customers, our industry and our community. ”
- Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
Recognized as 2019 Top Employer in China1
"We believe that the 2019 certified organisations demonstrate 
exceptional employee conditions and encourage the 
development of these practices by putting their people first. 
These companies help enrich the world of work with their 
outstanding dedication to HR excellence and because of this, 
they are recognised as an employer of choice."
- David Plink, CEO, Top Employers Institute"This certification not only shows that we are a forward 
looking company, but it also recognizes our commitment to 
continuously improving, developing and progressing with 
employees ."
- Aiken Yuen, Chief People Officer, Yum ChinaYum China was named a 2019 “Top Employer China" by the Top Employers Institute. For 
more than 30 years, Yum China has evolved our talent management systems to match the 
changing characteristics of each generation of young people. By understanding the needs of 
each generation of talent and how to manage them effectively, we have sustained an agile and 
innovative organization with a motivated workforce.
As one of certified Top Employers in China, Yum China is dedicated to HR excellence. The 
certification recognizes the Company's robust talent strategy and commitment to creating a 
diverse and inclusive environment in which everyone enjoys equal opportunities to unlock their 
full potential.
Established more than 25 years ago, the Top Employers Institute has certified over 1,300 
organizations in 115 countries and regions as an independent HR certification organization. The 
certification encompasses more than 100 questions and up to 600 HR practices centered around 
10 key themes: HR strategy, HR planning, recruitment, enrollment, learning and development, 
performance management, leadership development, professional development and successor 
management, compensation and benefits, and culture.
In 2018, KFC and Pizza Hut collaborated with the internationally renowned designer 
Anna Sui for their new uniform. The new uniforms combined fashion with elements of 
the two brands, demonstrating the youthfulness and energy of Yum China staff.
The unconventional cross-over also embodied KFC and Pizza Hut’s commitment to 
making bold innovations to disrupt the transitional restaurant industry and provide 
customers with enjoyable and differentiated dining experiences.
Pizza Hut Wins the "2018 China Learning & 
Development Value Award"2
Uniform x Fashion3In 2018, Pizza Hut stood out from more than 300 companies to win the 
“2018 China Learning & Development Value Award" in recognition of 
the best practice showcased in the Pizza Hut Management Institute’s 
project titled "Achieving a Leap Forward in Brand Transformation". 
Since its establishment in 2016, the Pizza Hut Management Institute has 
created a comprehensive training and development system that extracts 
and shares operational knowledge to facilitate rapid improvements 
across key business performance indicators. The Institute continues 
to provide employees with high-quality, professional and forward-
looking operational management knowledge. In 2017, a total of 315 
training classes were held across China. More than 4,000 management 
personnel took part in over 750,000 hours of training and nearly 2,300 
regional managers and RGMs were certified as coaches and mentors.Care for Society
Integrate into Communities
CommunityPoverty Alleviation
We mobilize community resources to promote poverty alleviation and 
the philosophy that "anyone can make a positive impact on society." We 
give full play to the characteristics and advantages of our business to 
provide targeted support for poverty alleviation and to support regional 
economic development. Child and Youth Development Through Education 
and Empowerment
We provide assistance and support to special groups (such as left-behind 
children and financially burdened university students) to give them access 
to education and resources. We encourage more children to fall in love 
with reading. 
Community Care
We actively engage with the community and care for them like a 
“good neighbor.” Our initiatives, such as emergency assistance for 
communities, warmth stations for sanitation workers, after-school 
student care services, and community family reading programs,  help to 
create an environment of kindness and inclusivity.  Advocate for Healthy Lifestyles
It is important for everyone to get into the habit of exercising. A 
healthy lifestyle is a habit that children and young people will benefit 
from for the rest of their lives. Yum China has supported marathons in 
more than a dozen cities throughout China and we also promote 3x3 
Basketball games in support of the national strategy for a “Healthy 
China.” We hope to encourage more people to embrace balanced 
diets and healthy lifestyles.
Our employees will volunteer no less than 1.5 million hours per year.Our efforts have focused on four main areas:
Our GoalYum China is on a mission to make every life taste beautiful. We serve more than 2 billion consumers every 
year through our delicious and healthy food and marketing activities. We are always searching for ways to be a 
positive influence on our local communities and society.Our Community Care for Society and Integrate into Communities
Poverty Alleviation
"One Yuan Donation", Every Little Contribution Helps
The One Yuan Donation program is one of the earliest examples of a Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) program in China that brings together employees, 
partners and customers to advocate the concept that “anyone can make an impact 
on society.” The One Yuan Donation program has just passed its 11th year and is 
one of the largest public donation campaigns in China.
The One Yuan Donation program was founded in 2008 by Yum China in partnership 
with the China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA). The public appeal called 
on each member of society to donate one yuan with the aim of helping children in 
impoverished regions by providing nutritious meals, setting up “Modern Kitchens”, 
and teaching them about nutrition. 
After 11 years of development, the program has become an iconic corporate 
social responsibility project. A nationwide public donation platform has now been 
formed through Yum China's approximately 8,000 restaurants nationwide and their 
associated online ordering systems.
In addition, e-commerce platforms operated by Yum China and its partners also 
hold charity potato sales from One Yuan Donation program locations and their 
surrounding regions. The sales help farmers in impoverished regions increase their 
income and improve their lives.
More than RMB 180 million in 
donations including over RMB 40 
million from Yum China and its 
employees180,000,000+
120,000,000+
More than 120 million 
consumers have taken partBenefited 618,000 students618,000
973
Provided Modern Kitchens at 973 schoolsHighlights from 11 years of the One Yuan 
Donation program
:.Signature.programProvided 41.9 million 
nutritious meals41,900,000
Joey.Wat,.CEO.of.Yum.China,.introduces. the.One.Yuan.Donation. program. to.customers.
at.a.KFC.restaurantIn addition to donations at our restaurants, we actively encourage our 
partners to also participate in the One Yuan Donation program. In 2018, 
nearly 90 of Yum China's supply chain partners actively participated in the 
program to help improve the nutrition of children in impoverished regions.
With the rapid development of the mobile Internet, mobile ordering 
and mobile payments have become increasingly common and public 
consumption habits are constantly changing. In 2018, the One Yuan 
Donation program was successfully rolled out on online channels such as 
KFC and Pizza Hut branded apps and widgets, making it convenient for 
consumers to donate to the program when they use the mobile ordering 
service.
A theme song for the One Yuan Donation program called “Wings of 
Love” was jointly released by Yum China and the CFPA. The lyrics of the 
song originated from a poem composed by a young girl from Sichuan 
Province named Xie Qing, who was a beneficiary of the program. During 
the fund-raising period, consumers across the country heard the song in 
KFC and Pizza Hut  restaurants. 
In 2018, more than RMB 17 million was raised by the program. That 
means 5 million more nutritious meals as well as 106 schools equipped 
with Modern Kitchens.One Yuan Donation Program Developments in 2018
2018 Awards for the One Yuan Donation Program
“Best Community Program Award” at the Global CSR Summit
"10th China Charity Award" by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, People's 
Republic of China
“10-Year Special Contribution Award” by the China Foundation for 
Poverty Alleviation (CFPA)
"2018 marked the 11th  year of the One Yuan Donation program. Thanks to 11 
years of continued efforts by Yum China, the One Yuan Donation program can 
now be considered a model for engaging the public in charitable activities. The 
program has won high recognition and active participation from the public and 
more  than 120 million consumers have taken part so far, making it one of the 
most popular programs for public good."
- Wang Xingzui, Executive Vice President of CFPA
"This is an act of compassion that 450,000 employees and hundreds of millions 
of customers have accomplished together. It embodies the spirit of generosity 
and we will continue to safeguard and spread the message of love, so that more 
children can grow up healthy and happy with the support of Yum China."
- Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
"Advocating public involvement in charitable activities is a kind of love and in the 
11 years of our continuous advocacy of "anyone can make an impact on society ", 
more and more enterprises have joined us in this project. The influence of the 
program continues to grow, and its true value is even more than the donation 
amount itself."
- Alice Wang, Chief Public Affairs Officer of Yum China
One Yuan Donation Program 
Theme Song: Wings of Love
Story
Wings of Love
The One Yuan Donation program was born in 2008. A young girl named Xie Qing (a 
student of Qingping Elementary School in Mianzhu, Sichuan Province, a beneficiary of 
the program) wrote a poem titled Love - Grows Wings to show her gratitude for the aid 
she received. In 2018 the poem was adapted into Wings of Love, the theme song for the 
One Yuan Donation program and touched the hearts of countless people.
As one of the first group of children to receive assistance from the program, Xie Qing is 
now a university student in her twenties and will soon enter the workforce. Her dream is 
to one day return to the mountains and become a kindergarten teacher. She said: "I want 
to show the people who helped me all those years ago that their compassion did not go 
to waste. The little girl they helped is grateful and she will give back to society all the love 
that was given to her. She will use her love to water the future flowers of the nation."一滴露珠
折射太阳的光辉
一片绿叶
显示大地的年岁
翅膀载着善和暖
向着未来而起飞
一份营养餐
给了我前进的希望
让我个子长高
让我身体变强壮
让我更智慧
奔向未来的曙光
全世界的爱乘着翅膀
飞进我的心田
让我们的心凝聚在一起
从此不再迷惘
感谢让我们懂得生命的可贵
牛奶面包汇成爱的丰碑
爱飞进我的心中
“捐一元”飞进我们每个孩子的心中
In May 2018, Yum China combined its own resources and strengths to 
support "ingredient development" and "targeted poverty alleviation" to explore 
the development potential of high-quality local produce and support the 
sustainable development of local industries. This provided an opportunity 
for an innovative application of "teach a man to fish and you feed him for a 
lifetime."
The first phase of the project focused on the truffle resources of Yongsheng 
County in Yunnan Province. In February 2018, Yum China partnered with 
the Chinese Academy of Sciences, nutrition experts and agricultural service 
companies to provide farmers with training courses on the scientific harvesting 
of truffles. By September 2018, a total of 860 farmers had been trained and 
online courses were recorded to facilitate training of even more farmers. 
As a milestone for the Grow Local Initiative Yunnan truffle project, Yum China 
issued one of the first scientific training manuals on sustainable truffle farming 
in Yunnan Province. It was published by Yunnan University Press, enabling the 
local government and Agriculture and Rural Affairs Office to provide farmers 
Local.farmers.in.Yunnan's.Yongsheng.County.take.truffle.farming.courses.and.receive.in-person.training
A.local.truffle.farmer.consults.the.Sustainable.Truffle.Farming.Manual
in Yunnan Province with much-needed training. The poverty alleviation program 
led to increased government awareness of the importance of truffle protection and 
supervision and an official notice for the protection of truffles was subsequently 
issued by the People's Government of Yongsheng County, Yunnan Province, on 
September 28, 2018.
In April 2018, Pizza Hut introduced a range of Pizza Hut truffle pizzas featuring high-
quality truffles from Yunnan Province at over 2,200 restaurants throughout China. 
Pizza Hut is also planning to use Yum China's Super APP, with hundreds of millions 
of active users, as well as other online resources to provide a stable and sustainable 
e-commerce sales platform for specialty agricultural produce that meet quality 
standards. In the future, the Pizza Hut Grow Local Initiative will be gradually rolled 
out throughout Yunnan Province and other parts of the country.Pizza Hut Grow Local Initiative:
Introduce a New Model for Targeted Poverty Alleviation1
“Poverty alleviation is one of the key areas we have been focusing on as part of our 
corporate social responsibility efforts, and it is where we believe our expertise and scale 
can make the greatest impact. We are in a unique position to leverage our supply chain 
management capabilities to make a significant contribution to communities across China. 
By helping local farmers improve farming techniques and connecting them to Yum China’s 
customer base, we are confident that the Grow Local Initiative will help stimulate local 
economies and support the sustainable expansion of promising agricultural products.”
- Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
Community Care
KFC is committed to being a good neighbor in the community and helping to innovate social 
governance. One way which we do this is by helping to solve the problem of unattended 
care after school for elementary school students who come from underprivileged families, 
migrant worker families, or families that have two working parents. Starting in 2016, the KFC 
Vcare School After 4:30pm program includes childcare-themed restaurants that serve the 
local communities. Dedicated spaces where students can read and write have also been 
established in some restaurants. KFC restaurants and online channels are used to recruit 
volunteers to organize a wide variety of extracurricular activities. The basic child-care service 
has therefore been enhanced by free specialty courses and mentoring in art, dance and 
science. The children are provided with a place to gather for learning and socializing after 
school. It has also created a platform for mutual assistance and learning between children.
By the end of 2018, KFC had organized 588 "School After 4:30pm" events at 17 
restaurants in Shenzhen, Zhengzhou and Wuhan. 
University. students. Xianyu.Leyang.and.Zhou.Chuangyu. from.Zhongnan. University. of.Economics. and.Law.
received. scholarships. from.the.KFC.First.Light.Foundation.. Here.they.have.volunteered. to.teach.children. how.
to.play.with.traditional.Chinese.puzzle.toys..Story
In November 2018, KFC's Vcare "School After 4:30pm” 
program arrived in Wuhan. With the help of the Wuhan 
City Civil Affairs Bureau and China Charity Federation, 
KFC used its stores in the three districts of Wuhan 
to work with local communities and build a volunteer 
service platform. The platform not only provides after-
school care to children that need it but also offers 
consumers and employees interested in supporting 
education a platform for volunteering their services.
KFC's.mascot.Qiqi.is.the.mystery.guest.joining.the.children.in.play
KFC Vcare: Be There for Kids After School1
(As.of.the.end.of.)Shenzhen, Zhengzhou 
and Wuhan17 restaurants3 17
588 events588
Pizza.Hut.Fortune.Centre.Restaurant,.
Chongqing
Pizza.Hut.Gucheng.
Restaurant,.Nanning
Pizza.Hut.TOP.Restaurant,.Qingdao Donation.of.Red.Library.to.Qionghai.Hongjun.Elementary .
School.by.Pizza.HutYum.China.launches.the.
Pizza.Hut.Public.Reading.
program.across.China.on.
World.Book.Day.in.
"Pizza Hut is committed to launching public reading activities in 
different cities across the country and to developing a national 
reading service. It is in line with the purpose, philosophy and practice 
of the Jinlin Charity Foundation and aligns with the national push to 
promote public reading and build a learning society."
- Yang Jinlin, 
famous journalist  and founder of Jinlin Charity FoundationOn April 23, 2018, Yum China formally launched the Pizza Hut Public 
Reading program at Pizza Hut restaurants throughout the country. Book 
donations and exchange centers, shared book stalls and reading bases 
have been set up using Pizza Hut store resources as part of a plan to 
gradually build a national platform for public reading services. A series of 
offline and online activities and cross-channel partnerships also serve to 
provide people with a love of good food and reading with an experience 
that combines both.
By the end of December 2018, the Pizza Hut Public Reading program 
had been launched at 14 themed restaurants in 13 cities including 
Shenzhen, Beijing, Guangzhou, Qingdao, Haikou, Nanning, Wuhan, 
Zhengzhou, Tianjin, Hangzhou, Harbin, Chongqing and Xiamen. The 
restaurants now have a combined collection in excess of 19,000 books.Pizza Hut Public Reading Program2
(As.of.the.end.of.)14 themed restaurants1413 cities13
Combined collection in 
excess of 19,000 books19,000+Pizza.Hut.Wenyi.Restaurant, .
Hangzhou
Journalist Friendly Restaurants
Pizza.Hut.Greenland. Center.Journalist. Friendly.
Restaurant,.Nanchang
KFC.Wujiang. Road.Journalist. Friendly. Restaurant, .
ShanghaiWhether it is a freezing cold day or the middle of summer, sanitation workers, public security officers and other frontline workers work tirelessly at their respective jobs. Yum 
China has launched a series of community activities to pay tribute to frontline workers and workers in special occupations. To thank them for their hard work, KFC and Pizza 
Hut restaurants throughout China expressed their gratitude by offering drinks and hot meals. 
Journalists must work fast to keep up with the latest developments. They are 
always in a hurry to find the next big story, on the way to an interview, or using their 
professionalism and expertise to file stories before a tight deadline.
Yum China's Pizza Hut and KFC brands have opened journalist friendly restaurants 
in Nanchang and Shanghai. The restaurants offer dedicated seating for journalists 
equipped with USB ports and power sockets as well as the "Uncrowned King" 
package to provide busy journalists with a premium service and exclusive discounts. 
The restaurants also showcase exhibitions of outstanding journalism and have 
subscriptions to magazines and newspapers for free use by journalists."Morning Dream": Warm the Heart with a KFC 
Breakfast
The work that sanitation workers do to beautify the city is very 
tough and time-consuming. When winter arrives and temperatures 
plummet, sanitation workers must still get up for work early in the 
morning. For these hard workers, sometimes even a drink of hot 
water might seem like a luxury. KFC restaurants everywhere are 
now acting to show they care about sanitation workers.
On January 6, 2018, the "Morning Dreams" program co-organized 
by Henan Traffic Radio and Zhengzhou KFC was officially 
launched. Over the following month, customers buying breakfast at 
one of the 17 designated KFC restaurants in Zhengzhou could also 
purchase any number of KFC breakfasts for sanitation workers. 
They received a "Dream Breakfast Sticker" that they could stick to 
the "Dream Breakfast" poster, after which any sanitation worker 
could then take a "Dream Breakfast Sticker" and redeem it for a 
free breakfast paid for by a KFC customer.Story
Pay Tribute to Frontline Workers3
With more than 8,400 restaurants throughout China, Yum China is well-equipped to support emergency rescue and post-disaster reconstruction efforts. In addition to the 
donation of money and supplies, emergency assistance plans are immediately activated after a disaster. The plans include providing food and rest spaces for rescue workers 
at designated restaurants on a 24-hour basis. Free umbrellas are also available for local residents to borrow.Disaster Relief and Donation4
On September 16, 2018, the super typhoon 
"Mangkhut" made landfall in south-eastern China, 
causing many areas in Guangdong Province to 
be hit by violent storms. Traffic was blocked, trees 
dumped, and water and power cut off. The repair 
personnel on the roads, traffic police, sanitation 
workers, and volunteers worked tirelessly to clean 
up obstacles and quickly restore order. Once 
KFC restaurants in locations such as Guangzhou, 
Zhuhai and Shenzhen reopened, they immediately 
began preparing large batches of food and liaised 
with their local street and city management 
departments to provide hot food to all the city and 
sanitation workers working on emergency repairs 
in Guangzhou, Yiangjiang, Jiangmen, Kaiping, 
Zhuhai and Shenzhen. Nearly 2,000 meals were 
sent out in appreciation for their hard work in 
restoring order to the city.
Story
Child and Youth Development Through 
Education and Empowerment
KFC Little Migratory Birds Fund:
Provide Support for Left-Behind and Migrant Children1
By the end of 2018, KFC had donated 
more than RMB 9 million to the Little 
Migratory Birds Fund and had donated 
1,598 reading corners to communities 
and schools with a high concentration 
of left-behind and migrant children. The 
reading corners are provided with a 
hand-picked collection of high-quality 
illustrations and story books. They 
also provide audio books, multimedia 
equipment and organized reading 
activities. Over 300 "Little Migratory Birds 
Story Club" sessions and related activities 
were also held for "Little Migratory Birds" 
at more than 100 KFC restaurants in 22 
provinces throughout China. KFC "Story 
Tellers", other KFC staff and volunteers, 
have contributed more than 30,000 
hours of volunteering time. Since its 
establishment, the Little Migratory Birds 
Fund has assisted approximately 1.5 
million left-behind and migrant children.Donated more than RMB 9 million9,000,000+
~1,500,000
Assisted approximately 1.5 million 
left-behind and migrant children
Donated 1,598 reading corners1,598
Contributed more than 30,000 hours 
of volunteering time30,000+
(As.of.the.end.of.)In 2016, Yum China's KFC brand partnered with the China Children and 
Teenagers' Foundation (CCTF) to launch the KFC Little Migratory Birds 
Fund for left-behind and migrant children. The mission of the Fund is to 
look after the emotional and mental well-being of left-behind and migrant 
children in China through reading, sports and art activities. The Fund 
enriches the spiritual life of left-behind and migrant children by establishing 
reading corners, hosting restaurant story sessions, and organizing themed 
literary, sports, arts and family-bonding activities. The Fund also helps their 
families regain high-quality companionship and communication.
In addition, during Chinese New Year, Children’s Day and the summer and 
winter breaks, KFC arranges for left-behind and migrant children to visit 
nearby restaurants to take part in a  variety of activities such as storytelling, 
learning of traditional culture, drawing and singing. The "Little Migratory 
Birds" are provided with companionship during these periods.

2018 Awards for the KFC Little Migratory 
Birds Fund
In 2018, KFC restaurants in Chongqing 
and Hunan continued to run the Mom 
Restaurants for Little Migratory Birds 
themed restaurant program whereby open 
job vacancies would be provided to the 
mothers of left-behind and migrant children. 
Basic welfare support and a flexible work 
schedule at the restaurants give mothers a 
chance to work near their children, so they 
can look after their family and children."Corporate Social Responsibility Annual Responsibility Case 
Study Award" by Southern Weekly
"Public Welfare Communication Award" at Jiemian.com's 
"China Outstanding Communication Award" for "Return of 
Migratory Birds - Say it with Love"
"Role-Model Award" (Public Welfare Category) at the 3rd 
αi "Value Co-Creation" Awards4
Expanded into Sichuan, Tibet, 
Qinghai and Inner Mongolia
~135,000
Distributed approximately 135,000 
new books Distributed 601 Bluetooth 
speakers 601Added 601 new book corners601
~900,000
Assisted approximately 
900,000 left-behind and 
migrant children 100
Distributed 100 Little Migratory 
Birds reading buckets 
A total of 115 KFC restaurants in 19 provinces hosted 203 
"Little Migratory Birds" events during 2018
Around 1,000 staff were involved in these events
The staff contributed 19,242.5 hours of service
Events inspired the participation of 644 volunteers
Contributed 3,907 hours of volunteering time
Little Migratory Birds Fund Nationwide Developments in 2018
5,880,000
KFC donated RMB 5.88 million in 2018
Story
"Little Migratory Birds" Visit Shanghai
On the afternoon of June 3, 2018, a flight carrying 16 "Little Migratory Birds" 
from Henan took off from Zhengzhou for Shanghai. The "Henan-Shanghai 
Young Companion Project" flight was intended to expand the horizons of local 
"Little Migratory Birds" of good character and academic performance in Henan 
by introducing them to the high technology and fashion of Shanghai. To help 
reduce the anxiety felt by many of the "Little Migratory Birds" during their first 
flight on a plane, an experienced KFC "Story Teller" not only comforted the 
children but also told the classic fairy tale story of "Pinocchio" during the flight. 
Once they reached Shanghai, handicraft classes and technology shows were 
waiting for them thanks to KFC restaurants in Shanghai. The "Little Migratory 
Birds" were transformed into "Ready Player One" and "Handicraft Experts" at 
the restaurant. The "Little Migratory Birds" were also treated to a custom "KFC 
Junior Geek Children's Programming Class" and chicken nuggets and fries 
from KFC restaurants were used to introduce them to the fun of programming, 
challenge their minds and improve their thinking skills.
The "Little Migratory Birds Reading 
Bucket"  is a reading toolbox specially 
developed with a partner of the Little 
Migratory Birds Fund to systematically 
guide village teachers on how to provide 
reading guidance to children. After a 
year-long trial, the 2018 Little Migratory 
Birds report found that 86.3% of the 
teachers at schools provided with the 
reading buckets saw that students began 
borrowing more books after reading 
bucket activities were introduced. More 
than 95% of the teachers said that 
students were far more motivated to 
express themselves during reading 
classes than other classes as reading 
gives children unprecedented self-
confidence and happiness.
Yum China and its brands not only provide children with nutritionally balanced meals, but 
also work to provide children with a happy and enjoyable reading experience. Children 
can read for knowledge as well as to develop intelligence and enrich their minds.
In addition, we work with communities to organize family reading sessions to help 
them discover the beauty of reading together as a family, convey the joy of reading and 
communication between parents and children and promote harmony in the family. Local 
families are provided with assistance on how to strengthen family bonds through reading.
Since 2015, KFC has partnered with the publishing industry to select high-quality books 
from China and abroad. More than 50 million books have been given away with Kid’s 
Meals. At the same time, we actively use restaurant resources around the country to 
promote reading. Free Kid's Book Club weekend story sessions and various reading 
activities are now held in each restaurant every week. More than 500,000 sessions have 
been hosted to date.
While recommending high-quality children's books, KFC is also using new media 
technologies to instill in every child a passion for reading in a way that is easy for them 
to accept. Immersing the children in stories can help to unleash their imaginations. The 
KFC Super APP, with its large user base, now has a "Kid's Book Club" audio bookshelf 
where classic Chinese animated stories such as "Havoc in Heaven" and "The Legend of 
Nezha" can be found.
The Kid's Book Club on the KFC Super APP
KFC Kid's Book Club Developments in 2018KFC Kid's Book Club2
Distributed 18.5 million books 
with Kid's Meals200,000 story sessions during 
the year18,500,000 200,000
KFC First Light Foundation3
The five representatives of KFC First Light Foundation Outstanding Students and 
guests at the event: Liao Chengqi, Vice President of China Youth Network (first on 
the left, rear row), Alice Wang , Chief Public Affairs Officer of Yum China (second 
from the left, rear row), Zhang Junhu, Deputy Secretary-General of China Volunteer 
Service Federation and Deputy Secretary-General of Chinese Young Volunteers 
Association (third from the left, rear row), Zhao Li, General Manager of KFC Beijing 
(fourth from the left, rear row), Shang Xiaohui, founder of Yushu and the young 
entrepreneurs' representative (fifth from the left, rear row).In partnership with the China Youth Development Foundation (CYDF), KFC 
China established the First Light Foundation in 2002 to help students from 
underprivileged family backgrounds, with good academic performance, to 
continue their education development. The program created a three-in-one 
funding model that combines financial support, practical work placement and 
community service to support students in need.
Selected university students receive scholarships from the Foundation to 
ease their financial burden and help them complete their studies. Additionally, 
we provide students with the opportunity to gain practical work experience 
in KFC restaurants where they receive the same pay and opportunities as 
normal staff, and through their own hard work they can improve their financial 
situation. Finally, we provide funding and training to students so that they can 
launch their own community service projects– embedding in them the spirit of 
giving back to society and helping others.
By the end of 2018, Yum China had donated more than RMB 100 million in 
funding to the First Light Foundation. The program now covers 68 universities 
across 30 cities in China and has helped more than 14,000 university students. 
During the course of the 2017 to 2018 school year, the First Light Foundation 
provided assistance to 1,702 high school students from 32 high schools in 22 
provinces across China with total funding of nearly RMB 9 million.
Donated more than RMB 100 million100,000,000+ 68
Covers 68 universities across 30 cities14,000+
Helped more than 14,000 university students
(As.of.the.end.of.)Sixteen Heart-Warming Years - First Light Scholars Fulfill 
Their Dreams Together
To celebrate Youth Day on May 4, 2018, the "Sixteen Heart-warming years - First 
Light Scholars Fulfill their Dreams Together" themed campaign co-hosted by the 
China Youth Network and Yum China was officially launched online. Nearly 100 past 
and present First Light Scholars nominated by the 30 cities covered by the First Light 
Foundation were invited to share their stories and participate in the online survey. The 
campaign attracted widespread interest from netizens. Their enthusiastic participation 
generated more than 1.07 million visits to the online survey. After reviewing the 
online survey results, a panel of judges agreed upon ten recipients to receive the 
title of  "First Light Foundation Outstanding Students". Five representatives including 
Song Huitao who volunteered to look after the elderly living alone and orphans before 
becoming a teacher in Tianjin, and Li Xiaokang, a post-graduate student who spent 
his time supporting education on the highlands, attended the ceremony to share their 
own stories of growing up and their experiences. Song Huitao offered the following 
summary of what he gained: "The First Light Foundation not only illuminated my path, 
but also allowed me to share hope with many other people."Story
Advocate for Healthy Lifestyles
In 2004, KFC China joined forces with the Chinese Basketball Association (CBA) to establish the KFC 3x3 
Basketball Championship with the aim of promoting a healthy mind, body and character in young people. 
The promotion of 3x3 Basketball with its elements of cooperation, collaboration and competition among the 
young people of China inspires them to "achieve the extraordinary from the ordinary."
As a promoter and facilitator of domestic 3x3 Basketball games, the championship has provided 
millions of young people with a platform for fulfilling their basketball dreams over the past 15 years. 
Asia Games champions Xiao Hailiang and Huang Wenwei, current CBA player Liu Xiaoyu, as well 
as the players from First Urumqi High School, that were the men's division champions of the 3x3 
U18 Asia Cup last year, have all taken part in the KFC 3x3 Basketball challenge. There they proved 
to themselves their basketball abilities and ultimately became up and coming basketball stars. The 
basketball stories of these players from ordinary backgrounds prove that the KFC 3x3 Basketball 
Championship is more than just a leading basketball competition, it is also a path for young people to 
pursue their dreams.
In 2018, the KFC 3x3 Basketball Championship joined the FIBA Event Maker, which further enhanced 
the standard of the tournaments. The 2018 competition encompassed 51 cities in 2018, attracting 
60,000 teams and over 250,000 players.
As one of the longest-running 3x3 Basketball 
competitions in China, the championship has attracted 
more than 2.6 million participants over its 15-year history. 
The frequent appearance of "star players" at KFC 3x3 
Basketball Championships in recent years shows that 
the very high standard of the competition is contributing 
to Chinese basketball by helping to identify and cultivate 
more talented basketball players.
Johnson.Huang,.General.Manager.of.KFC.China,.presents.the.award.for.MVPThe KFC 3x3 Basketball Championship in 2018:15 Years of the KFC 3x3 Basketball Championship:
15 Years of Unwavering Commitment to Helping Young People 
Realize their Basketball Dreams1
51
51 cities 60,000 teams 60,000
Over 250,000 players250,000+
Attracted more than 2.6 
million participants over 
15 years2,600,000+
Huang Wenwei: "I was just an ordinary young boy who 
loved basketball when I took part in the KFC 3x3 Basketball 
Championship in 2014. At KFC 3x3, I met other basketball 
enthusiasts from around the country and improved greatly as 
a result. It also inspired me to train harder and play in more 
competitions. Eventually, I was able to fulfill my dream of 
representing my country on the international stage."
Xiao Hailiang: "The KFC 3x3 Basketball Championship 
was where my basketball dream really took off. My 
experiences from the 2014 competition have continued to 
inspire me because it gave me the chance to step up on to 
the international stage, enter professional basketball, and 
represent my country at international competitions. Thanks, 
3x3 Basketball for helping other young basketball players 
like me pursue their dreams."
Yum China actively promotes a healthy and active lifestyle. We not only encourage employees to engage in physical 
exercise but also advocate exercise for consumers as well. We formed the KFC K-Run Team in 2016 to promote 
marathon running throughout the country. Yum China called upon KFC employees and consumers to join K-Run teams 
and participate in full marathons. Their families were also encouraged to participate through family running teams.
Having introduced the theme of "Running and Not Stopping" in 2017, KFC chose the theme "Run, Now" for 2018 to 
encourage more people to take up marathon running. KFC also sought to promote a lifestyle of balanced diet and 
exercise among more people. By the end of December 2018, KFC had supported 45 marathons, with more than 
5,500 people participating in the K-Run Team and over 9,000 families taking part in the family runs. KFC took part in 
24 marathons during 2018 and over 3,400 people joined the KFC K-Run Team and more than 6,700 teams ran in the 
family runs.
In addition, a K-Run section was introduced on KFC’s Super APP in 2017, to make it easier for consumers to achieve 
"balanced diet and exercise" through running and marathon competitions. The K-Run section of the KFC Super APP 
was used for online recruiting at 14 marathons in 2018. Nearly 7,000 people used the platform to register for local 
marathon races.
(As.of.the.end.of.) (In.the.year.of.)Marathon: Run for a Healthy and Active Lifestyle2
KFC "Hares" Help Wheelchair Athletes to Participate in the Shanghai Marathon
On the morning of November 18, 2018, the 2018 Shanghai Marathon started with more than 40,000 
participants from around the world. KFC showed its support for the event by once again entering a K-Run 
team. KFC also recruited 6 pacers colloquially known as "hares” to run at a fixed pace to help other racers 
achieve their target of completing the marathon within a set time. Li Wenchao, the first wheelchair runner to 
complete the full length of the marathon, joined a second marathon with help from KFC. Upon learning of 
Lin's wish to complete the race in 4 hours, KFC provided him with a dedicated "hare" to help him achieve his 
goal. 2017 was also the second time that the KFC K-Run team provided pacers for visually impaired runners. 
We believe an active and healthy lifestyle is something that everyone should be encouraged to enjoy.
Story45 marathons45
More than 5,500
people participating
in the KFC K-Run Team5,500+
Over 9,000 families
taking part
in the family runs9,000+
24 marathons24
More than 3,400
people participating in
the KFC K-Run Team3,400+
Over 6,700 teams
taking part
in the family runs6,700+

Appendix  1: Assurance  Report
Appendix  1: Assurance  Report
Appendix  2: Basis  of Key Data
01   Energy Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2)
Energy indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) of Yum China 
in 2018 were the GHG emissions generated by Yum China’s KFC and Pizza 
Hut restaurants (both company-owned and unconsolidated affiliates) in 2018. 
The restaurants did not generate direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) because 
they did not consume any fossil fuels such as petroleum and natural gas 
in 2018. All the energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) are derived from 
electricity consumption, which is calculated by multiplying each restaurant’s 
electricity consumption by the average carbon dioxide emission factors of 
regional power grid. The average carbon dioxide emission factors of regional 
power grid refer to the emission factor of 2012 in the “Average Carbon 
Dioxide Emission Factors of China's Regional Power Grids in 2011 and 
2012” issued by the National Development and Reform Commission.
02   Total Electricity Consumption
Total electricity consumption of Yum China in 2018 was the electricity 
consumed by Yum China’s KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-
owned and unconsolidated affiliates) in 2018. Electricity consumption refers 
to the data on the restaurants’ electricity bills.04   Female Share of Total Workforce
Female share of total workforce of Yum China in 2018 was the percentage 
of female employees out of all employees of Yum China at the end of 2018. 
The total number of employees refers to the number of full-time and part-time 
employees directly hired by Yum China at the end of 2018, including office 
staff and restaurant staff. The number of female employees refers to the full-
time and part-time female employees directly hired by Yum China at the end 
of 2018, including office staff and restaurant staff.03   Total Water Consumption
Total water consumption of Yum China in 2018 was the water consumed 
by Yum China’s KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants (both company-owned and 
unconsolidated affiliates) in 2018. Each restaurant's water consumption is 
calculated by dividing its water fee by the average water unit price of each 
province defined by Yum China. Water fee refers to the restaurants’ water 
bills. The average water unit price of each province is calculated based on 
the actual water unit price of different locations in the province.Yum China Holdings, Inc.
www.yumchina.com
