2019 Global Citizenship & Sustainability ReportUNLOCKING OPPORTUNITY  
FOR GROWTH & GOOD
3
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTABLE OF 
CONTENTS
APPROACH
Strategy & Governance ............................................ 6
Risk & Issue Management ....................................... 6
Reporting ................................................................ 7Materiality ............................................................... 7 
Stakeholder Engagement ........................................ 86
REPORTING
GRI Index ..................................................................................... 31
About This Report ......................................................................... 4231PEOPLE
Culture & Talent ........................................... 12
Equity, Inclusion & Belonging ...................... 13
Social Purpose .............................................. 14
Community Impact ...................................... 15 
Yum!'s COVID-19 Response ......................... 16 
People Performance Summary ..................... 1710 FOOD
Food Safety .................................................. 20
Balanced Choices ......................................... 21
Raised Responsibly ...................................... 21
Plant-based & Vegetarian ............................. 22
Food Performance Summary ........................ 2318 PLANET
Sustainability ............................................... 26
Climate Change Management ..................... 27 
Forest Stewardship ....................................... 28 
Waste Reduction .......................................... 29
Water Consumption ..................................... 29
Planet Performance Summary ..................... 3024We believe that  
investing in the  
right recipe today  
will create more  
goodness tomorrow.
ABOUT THE PAPE RUSED FOR THIS REPORT
The cover and interior pages of thisreportwereprinted using FSC-cer tiﬁed paper 
made with 100% Certiﬁed Renewable Ener gy and 100% post-consumer waste.
The inks used in the printing of thisreport contain an aver age of  25%-3 5% 
vegetable oilsfromplant deriva tives,a renewable resour ce.Theyreplace petroleum 
based inks as aneffort to also r educe volatileorganic compounds (VOCs).FPO4
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
 5As we publish Yum! Brands’ 2019 Global Citizenship 
& Sustainability Report, it’s important to highlight the 
transformative changes that have shaped our world so far 
this year. The complex impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
the resulting social unrest and the global recognition of 
the challenges facing frontline workers remind us of the 
important role we must play in keeping our employees, 
restaurant team members, customers and communities safe, 
addressing inequality and creating a welcoming environment 
for all. 
It is timely, then, that Yum! recently integrated our Recipe for 
Growth—the guiding principles of our business strategy—with 
our Recipe for Good, our roadmap for socially responsible 
and sustainable stewardship of people, food and planet. 
We have elevated the importance of people within both of 
these frameworks, which allows us to continue building an 
equitable and inclusive culture that, in turn, helps us better 
serve our customers and communities where we operate. 
This shift in thinking helped us to mobilize quickly in response 
to COVID-19, working across teams to source critical 
equipment and implement new processes and delivery 
methods to keep employees, restaurant team members, 
customers and franchisees safe. It’s also what led us to clarify 
and invest in a new social purpose, Unlocking Opportunity, 
for our frontline restaurant team members and communities. 
Through this global initiative, Yum! has committed $100 
million over five years to tackle inequality with an emphasis 
on equity and inclusion, education and entrepreneurship. 
As the world’s largest restaurant company, we have 
employees and customers who span ages, backgrounds and 
borders. We remain committed to developing our employees 
to become their best selves and serving our customers the 
food they love, no matter who they are. Times like these serve 
as a reminder that we are all connected and each has a role 
to play in helping others — on both sides of the counter. This 
report describes a few ways that Yum! is doing just that. 
Thanks for reading. A Message From
DAVID GIBBS
David Gibbs
Chief Executive Officer 
Yum! Brands, Inc.Yum! recently integrated our Recipe 
for Growth – the guiding principles 
of our business strategy – with our 
Recipe for Good, our roadmap for 
socially responsible and sustainable 
stewardship of people, food and planet.
global giving in 2019
$66.3
MILLION+
A-
CDP Forests palm oil 
score in 2019
1.6
MILLION+
$100
MILLIONfranchise system 
employees
investment to  
fight inequalityYUM! AT A GLANCE
4 BRANDS
100%
CLIMATE 
CHANGE
renewable 
energy at our U.S. 
corporate offices 
by the end of 2020 
developing a path 
to set science-based 
targets
testing innovative 
products around the worldaccelerated efforts to  
remove globally by 2022  
across all brands
PLANT-BASED
EXPANDED 
POLYSTYRENE 
DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY 
NORTH AMERICA INDEXin 2019Named to the 
40% of global leadership 
positions held  
by women*
2K+
franchisees around  
the world*Leadership (L12) positions are considered  
director level or above. 7
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
ESG Governance 
Oversight for environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) issues 
ultimately resides with the Yum! 
Brands board of directors. The board 
is briefed at least annually on current 
issues and focus areas through its 
Audit Committee. At the operational 
level, the chief communications 
and public affairs officer oversees 
the global reputation of Yum!, 
assesses and manages ESG risks 
and shapes the Global Citizenship 
& Sustainability Strategy in partnership with the Vice President of Global 
Government Affairs and Sustainability and other senior leaders who comprise 
our ESG Council, including:
• Chief Transformation & People Officer
• Chief Communications & Public Affairs Officer
• Vice President, Global Government Affairs & Sustainability
• Chief Food Safety Officer
• Chief Equity & Inclusion Officer
• Chief Legal & Franchise Officer
• Chief Compliance Officer
• Chief Food Innovation Officer
• Chief Development Officer
• Vice President, Supply Chain
The ESG Council plays a key role when it comes to championing and  
governing Yum!’s overall citizenship and sustainability strategy and priorities. 
Yum! also convenes cross-functional working groups that include employees 
from food safety, human resources, supply chain, development, sustainability, 
communications and legal teams at the corporate and brand division levels 
to manage day-to-day work to advance priority area agendas. This includes an 
ESG Working Group that helps manage ongoing efforts such as our materiality 
assessment, disclosures to sustainability ratings and rankings agencies and our 
Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report.
Risk & Issue Management 
According to the World Economic Forum’s 2018 Global Risks Report, 
environmental and societal risks, such as extreme weather and social instability, 
have surpassed economic and geopolitical risks in terms of both likelihood 
and impact. As these findings make clear, ESG issues must be part of our 
global ERM process. In 2019, Yum! conducted a reputational risk and issue 
management exercise with a third-party vendor that helped us further integrate 
ESG into our approach to global risk management. Much like our materiality 
assessment process, we have further sharpened our top ESG issues from an 
ERM perspective and prioritized them according to their importance to our 
business and stakeholders. In addition, we have invested in a third-party ESG 
data management tool that increases our capacity to gather data, track progress 
and continue on the path of greater transparency. Strategy
At Yum!, being a good corporate steward is a fundamental commitment and an 
important part of our success. Our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy, 
called the Recipe for Good, reflects our priorities for socially responsible growth, 
risk management and sustainable stewardship of our people, food and planet. 
In January 2020, we elevated people to be our hero pillar which became even 
more critical as we navigated COVID-19 and racial inequality throughout the 
year. We are certain that our business purpose and corporate citizenship are 
more interconnected and essential today than ever.
The Recipe for Good has increasingly become integrated into Yum!’s business 
strategy. For the first time, in 2019, we introduced our joint Recipe for Growth 
and Good in our Annual Report and Form 10-K , and we continue to apply a 
citizenship and sustainability lens to business processes, including enterprise 
risk management (ERM). 
We are focused on advancing progress and results in the most critical parts of 
our business:
• Hiring and developing the best talent in an inclusive 
workplace
• Giving back to our communities
• Feeding people safely and responding to customers’ 
evolving preferences
• Minimizing our climate impact and choosing responsible 
suppliers
• Operating our restaurants efficiently
As we do so, we share progress with and promote transparency for  
stakeholders, including employees, customers, franchisees, shareholders  
and communities.
Food
Serve delicious  
food people trustPeople
Planet
Grow 
sustainablyPolicies & 
Positions Transparency is foundational to the execution of our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy. We make policies, 
public positions and other resources available to stakeholders so they know where we stand on issues. New additions 
since the last progress update include the Yum! Sustainable Packaging Policy and KFC Global Chicken Welfare 
Guidelines . View our full list of policies .
Materiality
Regular materiality assessments, as well 
as our most recent ERM assessment, are 
important inputs that guide our reporting 
and priority areas of focus which include 
topics such as Food Safety, Energy, Emissions 
& Climate Change, and Talent Attraction, 
Engagement & Retention. We plan to conduct 
a new materiality assessment within the 
next 18 months to make sure we have the 
most updated input from key stakeholders 
– our employees, customers, franchisees, 
shareholders and communities – when it 
comes to ESG issues and topics that are most 
important to them. Our most recent materiality 
matrix is to the right.
Importance to External Stakeholders
Importance to Yum! BrandsTax StrategyPackagingInformation Security 
& Data Privacy
Talent Attraction, 
Engagement & RetentionEthics & Compliance
Financial PerformanceMenu Labeling
Community & Philanthropy
Food Technology
Responsible Marketing
Lobbying & Public PolicySustainable Sourcing
Waste & RecyclingFood Safety
Water
Animal WelfareChoice & NutritionEnergy, Emissions & Climate Change
Human Rights & Labor PracticesAPPROACH
People Food PlanetReporting 
Regular reporting  continues to be the 
primary way we share our progress and 
show transparency around our ESG 
practices. In addition to publishing 
annual updates on our Recipe for 
Good, which align with the Global 
Reporting Initiatives (GRI) standards, we 
participate in comprehensive voluntary 
disclosures including the Bloomberg 
Gender Equality Index; CDP Climate 
Change, Forests and Water Security; the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), and the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO) Annual Communication of Progress. We continue to seek out ways 
to better meet the needs of our stakeholders. To that end, we are transitioning 
to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework, 
which investors have identified as useful for restaurant companies. We are 
encouraged by the efforts to harmonize and align the GRI and SASB,  
and we expect to have substantial implementation of SASB standards  
by the end of 2022.UN Sustainable Development Goals
As a global restaurant company with access to resources and a defined purpose 
to unlock opportunity, Yum! is well positioned to address numerous United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals that align closely with our material 
areas of work.9
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTAPPROACH
Yum! follows a process for identifying, prioritizing and engaging with stakeholders on issues 
identified through our materiality assessment. Our key stakeholders include employees, 
customers, franchisees, shareholders and communities. Engagement varies from one-time 
discussions to regular interaction while working on joint projects that help create strategy and 
programming. We aim to be as inclusive as possible in this engagement, listening to many points 
of view from both supportive and critical voices.
Working with organizations that have shared interests in areas that are most material to our 
business helps us address industry challenges, opportunities and public policy issues.  
Key partners include:The following table provides examples of ongoing interactions with each of these groups and issues that are most relevant to them.
A key stakeholder engagement in 2019 was with World Wildlife Fund (WWF), the world’s leading conservation agency that develops 
and delivers innovative solutions to protect the planet. We deepened our collaboration with the organization, conducting a landscape 
assessment to better understand the deforestation risk associated with the soy used in our supply chain that is sourced from Brazil. 
Read more about this work on pg. 29 .• Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics
• American Potato Trade Alliance 
• CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™
• Conference for Food Protection
• Consortium for Graduate Studies in Management
• Dairy Management Incorporated™
• Food Industry Asia
• Food Waste Reduction Alliance 
• International Franchise Association 
• International Poultry Council 
• Institute for Food Technologists 
• Louisville Sustainability Council 
• Multicultural Foodservice & Hospitality Alliance™
• National Chicken Council • National Pork Board
• National Restaurant Association®
• National Retail Federation®
• New York Declaration on Forests
• Paradigm for Parity®
• Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil™
• Serving Europe
• USA Poultry and Egg Export Council
• U.S. Chamber Business Councils
• U.S. Green Building Council
• U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef
• We Are All Human-Hispanic Promise 
• Women’s Foodservice Forum 
• World Wildlife Fund
It takes strategic and meaningful collaboration between World Wildlife Fund and the broader 
business community to achieve lasting conservation of the world’s most important forests and 
critical habitat, and that’s no different when it comes to our partnership with Yum! Brands. 
We expect our work with them to play a key role in driving impact when it comes to Yum! 
reaching its no-deforestation commitment and advancing its sustainable supply chain efforts.
– JASON CLAY, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT MARKETS, WORLD WILDLIFE FUNDSTAKEHOLDER TYPES OF ENGAGEMENT MOST IMPORTANT ISSUES
Advocacy Groups/NGOs • Direct Engagement
• Organizational Membership
• Roundtable Events
• Shareholder Meetings
• Strategic Issue Partnership• Choice & Nutrition
• Energy, Emissions & Climate Change
• Ethics & Compliance
• Food Safety
• Human Rights & Labor Practices
• Sustainable Sourcing
Communities • Corporate & Employee Giving
• Employee Volunteerism
• Local Nonprofit Partnerships• Choice & Nutrition
• Community & Philanthropy
Consumers • Social Media • Choice & Nutrition
• Community & Philanthropy
Employees • Anonymous Hotline
• Development & Training Programs
• Employee Engagement Survey
• Quarterly Global Employee 
Webcasts
• Town Hall Meetings• Community & Philanthropy
• Talent Attraction, Engagement & Retention
• Food Safety
Franchisees • Annual Franchise Conventions
• Direct Engagement• Community & Philanthropy
• Talent Attraction, Engagement & Retention
• Food Safety
Government Agencies • Direct Engagement
• Yum! Political Action Committee• Choice & Nutrition
• Ethics & Compliance
• Food Safety
• Human Rights & Labor Practices
Industry Associations • Annual Conferences
• Industry Memberships• Choice & Nutrition
• Talent Attraction, Engagement & Retention
• Energy, Emissions & Climate Change
• Food Safety
Investors • Annual Report
• Brand/Yum! Investor Days
• Direct Engagement
• Earnings/Investor Calls
• Ratings/Rankings & Indices• Talent Attraction, Engagement & Retention
• Energy, Emissions & Climate Change
• Ethics & Compliance
Suppliers • Annual Supplier Awards
• Restaurant Supply Chain 
Solutions™
• Supplier Audits• Energy, Emissions & Climate Change
• Food Safety
• Waste & Recycling
• Water
Thought Leaders • Leverage Experts on Councils
• Participate in Research & Studies• Ethics & Compliance
• Human Rights & Labor PracticesStakeholder Engagement 11
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPEOPLE
We are stepping up our investment 
in Yum!’s new social purpose to 
unlock opportunity in our people and 
communities, while championing equity, 
inclusion and belonging across  
all aspects of our brands and  
franchise business.PEOPLE
We Unlock Opportunity• Pizza Hut U.S. created the BOOK IT! program, the 
longest-running, corporate-supported reading 
program, and expanded its outreach in 2016 with a 
goal to impact 100 million lives in 10 years  
through literacy and reading.
2020
2019
2018
2017
2015
2012
2007
1992
1984• Pizza Hut U.S. helped establish the 
world’s first prepared food donation 
program, called Harvest, which KFC 
later joined.
• Yum! published its Human 
& Labor Rights Policy.• Yum! introduced the Achieving 
Breakthrough Results leadership 
training program. Our People Journey
• Yum! established Leading Inclusion 
for Today and Tomorrow (LIFT²), our 
diversity and inclusion council. • Yum! launched  
Grow Yourself Week, an  
innovative employee 
development program.• KFC started a global community outreach 
effort called Acts of Colonel-ness.
• Yum! introduced two days of paid time off 
(PTO) for employee volunteering.
• Yum! joined the Paradigm for Parity Coalition.
• Yum! signed on to the CEO Action for  
Diversity & Inclusion™.• Taco Bell launched its Round Up 
program through which customers can 
“round up” their orders to the nearest 
dollar and donate to the Taco Bell 
Foundation. 
• Yum! pledged to The Hispanic Promise, 
a call to create a more inclusive work 
environment for Hispanic individuals. • Yum! acquired Heartstyles, a leading 
personal and professional development 
program. 
• Yum! invested $100 million to fight 
inequality by unlocking opportunity for 
employees and communities.13
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
“In 2019, we launched our Lead It Forward agenda, 
bringing together Yum!’s top 75 women executives from 
across our global business to network and share know 
how on strengthening equity and inclusion broadly 
and female advancement in their home countries. We 
now have a growing movement of world-class programs 
advancing women and creating more inclusive cultures in 
places such as Asia, Russia, Australia, Europe and the U.S.”
Tracy Skeans,  
Yum! Chief Transformation & People Officer“As the world’s largest restaurant 
company, our brands and our people are 
our biggest assets. From the restaurant to 
the corner office, investing in people with 
globally scalable development programs 
that benefit our restaurant general 
managers is at the center of our strategy to 
elevate the customer experience, unlock 
growth for our 2,000 franchisees and 
make a difference in the world.”
Advancing Women Leaders 
From being a founding member of the Women’s Foodservice Forum in 1999 to 
establishing female mentoring programs for our restaurant general managers 
(RGMs) and offering leadership coaching, we know that investing in our female 
talent is a key element to driving growth for our business. It starts at the top 
with our CEO, leadership teams and franchisees who serve as champions to 
advance our global strategy while encouraging grassroots advocacy efforts. 
In 2019, we made progress on our public commitments to increase 
representation of women across our global system.PEOPLE
Transforming Culture & Talent
We believe that the unrivaled culture and talent in our brands give us a 
competitive advantage when it comes to growing our business. It’s also a key 
reason why talent attraction, engagement and retention rank among the most 
material corporate social responsibility issues. Moving forward, we’re building 
on our strengths and taking on new challenges by investing in strategic 
initiatives that unlock opportunity and create an inclusive culture for all talent  
to thrive at work and home. 
Building World-Class Restaurant Managers
In March 2020, we acquired the Heartstyles company , after years of 
partnership, to advance Yum!’s commitment to a people-first culture and 
elevate the customer experience by cultivating world-class leaders across the 
organization and especially at the frontline of our brands.
Equity, Inclusion & Belonging 
Many of our restaurant team members around the globe are navigating 
life’s challenges in the face of inequality, and this daily experience is now 
compounded by a global pandemic. Today, leading with an inclusive mindset 
and an eye toward sustainable impact is now more important than ever. 
As we navigate the road ahead in partnership with our 2,000+ franchisees 
around the world, we are expanding our investment in global and local 
programs that advance equity and inclusion from the corner office to the 
restaurant.
Building on our ongoing inclusion efforts, starting from the inside out, Yum! 
and our U.S. brands will:
KEY EQUITY & INCLUSION PARTNERSHIPS
“At Yum!, we want to unlock the 
power of diversity and create a 
culture of equity, inclusion and 
belonging that is so strong for all 
of our restaurant team members, 
franchisees and communities that 
our customers feel it.”
James Fripp  
Yum! Chief Equity & Inclusion OfficerIncrease representation of Black, Latinx and female 
associates among our executive and management ranks, 
franchisees and suppliers. This builds on our initiative to 
advance women in leadership, and it will include targets 
that inspire and hold us accountable to aggressive 
progress over time. 
Continue to roll out inclusive leadership and anti-racism 
training across our system, including company and 
franchise restaurants. 
Partner with U.S. franchisees on implementing the 
Unlocking Opportunity Initiative, and leverage and 
expand their involvement in Yum!’s inclusion advisory 
group, called the Leading Inclusion for Today and 
Tomorrow (LIFT²) Council.
Increase Black, Latinx and other diverse representation 
across our teams and in our U.S. corporate leadership and 
agency account teams.
FORWARD
WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP RETREAT 2018Women’s Leadership Retreat 2018Yum! has initiated multi-year plans to 
scale Heartstyles into the restaurant so 
we can offer it efficiently to our more 
than 2,000 franchisees who run 98% of 
our more than 50,000 restaurants.
Created by leadership expert Stephen Klemich and Mara Klemich, Ph.D, a 
neuropsychologist, Heartstyles is a world-class leadership development 
program that will help further unlock potential and build the capabilities 
of people who drive performance for our restaurants around the world. 
Heartstyles, which has already had a profound and measurable impact where 
we’ve implemented it across our organization and into the restaurant, is an 
intuitive and practical method for helping people learn how to become the best 
versions of themselves, lead authentically and build workplace cultures that 
unlock the potential of teams and deliver strong results. A key component of 
the hands-on training program is the Heartstyles Indicator, a statistically valid 
online self- and 360-degree assessment and action plan that helps individuals 
identify and generate positive and constructive attitudes, thinking and 
behaviors that help them in life and at work.Tracy Skeans, Yum! Chief Transformation & People Officer
of our global leadership positions are now 
held by women, making more progress in 
two years than in the previous 10 .* In line with Paradigm for Parity’s goal to advance women to senior roles 
and achieve gender parity in leadership globally by 2030,Relevant,  Easy 
& Distinctive Br ands
Innovate and elevate iconic restaura nt 
brands people trust and championBold Re staura nt 
Development
Drive mark et and fr anchise 
unit expansion with 
strong economics 
and valueUnmatched 
Oper ating C apabilit y
Recruit and equip the best  
restaurant ope rators in 
the world to deliver  
great customer  
experience sFood
Serve delicious  
food people trustPeople
Unlock  
opport unity
Planet
Grow 
sustainablyUnlocking opport unity for 
Better collabor ation   •   Bet ter experiences    •  Bet ter economics  •  Bet ter growthPURPOS E
& GOODGOOD GROW TH
Unrivaled Culture  & Talent
Levera ge culture  and people 
capability to fuel bra nd 
performance and 
franchise success
*Leadership (L12) positions are considered director level or above. Invest in entrepreneurship, education and social justice in 
communities that have been historically marginalized and 
cities where our corporate offices are located.15
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PEOPLE
Q: What inspired Yum! to launch a new social purpose? 
A:  We know that today’s leading companies demonstrate social value alongside financial 
value. And while our company benefits society in many ways — as you can read 
throughout this report — we wanted to identify specific issues where we could make 
a unique difference. More than a year ago, we began our journey listening to outside 
stakeholders and interviewing leaders across the business. We heard a common theme: 
the importance of investing in people. Our 2,000 franchisees employ most of the more 
than 1.6 million people worldwide working for our brands, and their businesses help 
support thousands of local economies. Therefore, we’ve built a social purpose framework 
around unlocking opportunity for frontline restaurant team members and communities by 
increasing access to ingredients for a positive future — equity and inclusion, education and 
entrepreneurship.
Q:  How did the events of 2020, including COVID-19 and instances of racial injustice,  
tie into your decision to launch a new social purpose? 
A:  Our global leadership team was already developing our path forward on Unlocking 
Opportunity when the events of 2020 unfolded and helped us refine our point of view 
on where we wanted Yum! to make a sustainable difference. The global Unlocking 
Opportunity Initiative we announced is a refinement of what Yum! has been doing for 20 
years — investing in unlocking the potential of people. Now, more than ever, we recognize 
the many faces of inequality that challenge the lives of the people working in our brands 
or local communities. Alongside our franchisees, we plan to do our part on a long-
term journey and are excited that Yum! can contribute to the global movement against 
inequality in a meaningful and intentional way that aligns with who we are as a company.Q
AWe’re investing $100 million over the next five years to fight inequality with focus on three areas:UNLOCKING
INITIATIVEOPPORTUNITY
Equity & Inclusion
EntrepreneurshipEducationEquity & Inclusion
EntrepreneurshipEducationEquity & Inclusion
EntrepreneurshipEducation
We’ll deepen our investments in 
efforts to produce equity, fairness, 
inclusion and belonging inside 
our company, across all aspects of 
our brands and throughout our  
franchise businesses.We’ll expand access and funding 
of education and skills training, 
which both empower restaurant 
team members to build their best 
lives and uplift our communities.We’ll create pathways to entrepreneurship 
for restaurant employees wanting to lead 
a business, franchise or social enterprise, 
as well as for small businesses and social 
entrepreneurs looking to make a meaningful 
difference in their communities.Brand Community Impact 
Our brands focus their community impact efforts on the issues they’re most passionate about and that align with their brand identities.  
Altogether, our brands donated more than $66 million to communities around the world in 2019. From supporting youth through education  
and literacy to fighting hunger, here are a few of the ways they are giving back:
Yum! Foundation Continues to Spread Good 
The Yum! Foundation has grown its impact in a number of ways. In 2019, it expanded from providing domestic employee 
matching gifts and disaster relief to international support. This broader focus was essential throughout the COVID-19 crisis.  
In response to recent instances of racial injustice, the Foundation pledged  $3 million  to advance equality and social justice,  
$1 million  of which will go to community organizations identified with input from RGMs across the U.S. In Louisville, 
Kentucky, we continued to give to our three community partners — Dare to Care, Metro United Way and Fund for the Arts — 
with a special focus on lifting Black voices through the work of these organizations. Introducing Yum!’s New Social Purpose: Unlocking Opportunity
“On June 25, 2020, we expanded our Recipe for Good efforts and announced our new social purpose to  
unlock opportunity, which builds on 20 years of investing in our people-first culture and is a landmark 
commitment to have a positive and sustainable social impact on the communities where we operate and for the 
restaurant team members who work on the frontline of our brands around the world.”  
Jerilan Greene  
Yum! Chief Communications & Public Affairs Officer and Chairman and CEO, Yum! Foundation
KFC continues to tackle child hunger through the Add 
Hope program in South Africa, and its partnership with 
Blessings in a Backpack in the U.S., which kept children fed 
during school closures in 2020.
Pizza Hut U.S. expanded its support of First Book’s Stories for 
All Project™, a collection of diverse books and educational 
resources that reflect myriad experiences, cultures and 
communities. Additionally, Pizza Hut International invested  
in RGMs around the world through scholarships for 
continued education.
Taco Bell launched Round Up, through which customers 
are encouraged to round up their order total to the nearest 
dollar, with the extra change being donated to the Taco Bell 
Foundation and No Kid Hungry — raising $30 million since 
its inception in 2019.
The Habit Burger Grill continues its fight to help end 
childhood hunger in America through its partnership with 
No Kid Hungry.
Planet
Grow 
sustainably
Food
Serve delicious
food people trustPeopleOur new social purpose 
unlocks opportunities for 
frontline team members 
and communities.17
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PEOPLE
Goal Status
Create a culture of 
engagement that 
attracts, retains and 
grows the best people 
and creates high 
performance in our 
restaurants.Measure Yum! Brands’ employee engagement.In 2019, we launched an enhanced global employee 
engagement survey to all corporate employees, and results 
showed a 90% engagement level. Yum! outperformed 
benchmarked companies with engagement among Yum! 
employees in the 95th percentile.
Provide Yum! Brands’ employees with training 
and development that builds world-class 
leaders and business results.More than 33,000 employees participated in training programs 
in 2019, including our leadership development program, 
Heartstyles, and unconscious bias program, Inclusive Leadership, 
as well as on compliance polices, including our Code of Conduct, 
with more than 2 million corporate training hours logged.Culture  
& TalentPEOPLE 2019 Performance Summary
Hold our employees, 
franchisees and 
suppliers to the highest 
standards of professional 
and ethical conduct.Remain committed to our Global Code of Conduct and 
Supplier Code of Conduct, which addresses guidelines for 
working conditions consistent with frameworks such as 
those of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and 
the United Nations Guiding Principles on Human Rights.• Tracked about 140,000 hours of training on issues 
related to human rights policies and the ethical 
treatment of individuals in our system.
• Established global membership with Sedex, one 
of the world’s leading ethical trade membership 
organizations that works with business to improve 
working conditions in global supply chains, to  
further strengthen our existing supply chain  
auditing capabilities with focus on human rights  
and labor practices.Ethics &  
Human RightsBuild an inclusive 
culture among our 
employees, franchisees, 
suppliers and partners 
to reflect the diversity 
of our customers and 
communities.Continue building upon ongoing inclusion efforts to help ensure 
our workplaces are environments where all people can be 
successful.Launched the Yum! Unlocking Opportunity Initiative with an 
investment of $100 million over the next five years to fight 
inequality for employees and communities around the globe with 
a focus on three key areas, one of which is Equity, Inclusion and 
Belonging. 
Significantly increase the number of women 
in senior leadership globally and achieve 
gender parity in leadership globally by 2030 in 
alignment with Paradigm for Parity®.Aligned with the Paradigm for Parity®, a coalition of companies 
working to increase the number of women in senior operating 
roles. In 2019, 40% of global leadership roles were held by 
women, and half of our global workforce were women.
Significantly increase diverse 
representation of underrepresented 
minorities in the U.S. among corporate 
employees.Increased focus on coaching capability, sponsorship programs 
and customized individual development plans. Joined We Are All 
Human’s Hispanic Promise, a national pledge to hire, promote, 
retain and celebrate Hispanics in the workplace.
Continue rolling out Inclusive Leadership training and anti-racism 
training across our system, including company-owned and 
franchise restaurants.Continued expanding our Inclusive Leadership training to 
employees and franchisees around the world and started to 
develop an online module of the program to help provide more 
access to the curriculum. Equity, Inclusion & Belonging
Support global initiatives 
related to hunger relief, 
literacy and youth 
education, as well as 
nonprofits near our 
hometown headquarters.Donate food, funds, time and talent to 
help local and global communities.Our global organization donated $66 million in 2019, supporting 
brand efforts such as the KFC Foundation, Pizza Hut’s BOOK IT! 
program and the Taco Bell Foundation’s Live Más Scholarship.  
We also donated 5.95 million pounds of food through our 
Harvest program.Community & 
PhilanthropyYUM!’S COVID-19 RESPONSE  
As we navigated the coronavirus pandemic, our number-one priority was the health and safety  
of our KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill employees, customers and franchisees.  
During this difficult time, our response included the following:
Supporting Impacted Employees
Global Medical Relief Fund for restaurant team members and  
family members diagnosed with COVID-19 
One-time $1,000 bonuses for nearly 1,200 RGMs  
at company-owned stores
One-time bonuses for employees at company-owned stores 
Paid leave for company-owned restaurant employees unable to work 
Helping Franchise Business Owners
Global Franchise Health and COVID-19 Support Team for  
business continuity
Capital assistance and grace periods  
for paymentsKeeping Restaurants Open Safely 
Low-contact options including delivery, drive-thru  
and curbside pickup 
Contactless delivery through our own and  
third-party services 
Temperature checks and counter shields  
for increased safety 
Giving Back to Communities
Hundreds of thousands of meals donated to food banks, 
healthcare workers and other essential personnel
Books and other educational resources for students without 
access to these items at home19
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTFOOD
We have an unwavering commitment to 
serve food that people trust. That means 
going above and beyond when it comes 
to food safety, listening and responding 
to customers’ evolving preferences and 
improving the nutritional value of our 
menu items.FOOD
We Serve Food  
People Trust
Our Food Journey
• Yum! established its 
Food Standards Council to  
sharpen food safety practices.
• Yum! created its Animal Welfare 
Advisory Council to elevate 
animal well-being practices.• KFC announced global 
chicken welfare KPIs.• Yum! joined the Antimicrobial Resistance Challenge to accelerate 
the fight against antimicrobial resistance across the globe, 
sponsored by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
• Taco Bell announced Good Antimicrobial Stewardship Program to 
seek continuous improvement in its beef supply.
• Yum! joined the Roundtable for Sustainable Poultry & Eggs.
• Yum! became the first U.S. company 
to voluntarily make nutritional 
information available. 
• Taco Bell launched Fresco Menu, which 
offers signature items all under 350 calories 
and 10 grams of fat.• Yum! launched nutritional calculators on U.S. menus. 
• Pizza Hut U.S. and Taco Bell U.S. removed all artificial 
flavors and colors (KFC U.K. & Ireland achieved in 
2017, and KFC Australia, KFC U.S. and Pizza Hut 
International achieved in 2018). 
• Taco Bell became the first quick-service 
restaurant to offer an American Vegetarian 
Association (AVA)-certified menu.• Taco Bell began sourcing whole 
eggs from cage-free hens for its 
breakfast menu in all U.S. restaurants 
(expanded to entire menu in U.S. 
and Canada in 2018).• Yum! published its Animal Welfare Policy.
• Taco Bell joined the U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef.
• KFC, Pizza Hut (chicken for its pizza) and Taco Bell all met 
commitments to remove antibiotics important to human 
medicine from U.S. poultry supply (Pizza Hut U.S. will  
remove in chicken used for wings by 2022.)
• Pizza Hut U.S. joined the Dairy Sustainability Alliance. 
2019
2018
2017
2016
2015
2008
2005
2003
2020
• Yum! published its Sustainable 
Animal Protein Principles.
• Taco Bell removed XL 40-ounce 
beverage cup size from its menu.21
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTRECIPE NOTES  
Building Upon Our Safety Strengths
with Mary Weaver,  
Yum! Chief Food Safety & Quality Assurance OfficerQ
A
Q: How has Yum!’s approach to food safety evolved over the past year?
A:  We’ve made significant investments in technology, including a food 
safety and quality management system that provides real-time, global 
transparency on the status of all of our food and packaging suppliers. 
These improvements allow us to quickly visualize performance, measure 
risk, as well as respond quickly to supply chain disruptions, which was 
critical during the COVID-19 pandemic.  
 
We also transitioned from a compliance to a risk-based approach when assessing our 
suppliers. That is, rather than scoring suppliers with a “pass” or “fail,” we assign them a  
tiered ranking. We then provide a path to achieve the level of performance necessary to  
be a Yum! supplier.
Q: What are the benefits of this risk-based approach? 
A:  From Yum!’s standpoint, prioritizing continuous improvement has made us more efficient 
because it requires us to develop existing suppliers rather than continually searching for 
new ones. It also brings lasting benefits to our suppliers, particularly for small businesses 
and those in countries that don’t yet have established supply chains. Meeting Yum!’s global 
standards often qualifies them to serve as a vendor to other large businesses, which, in turn, 
helps grow economies throughout the world.
Q:  How did Yum! maintain high levels of safety in restaurants during the COVID-19 outbreak? 
A:  A foundation of strong food safety processes and procedures, many of which go beyond 
global regulations, helped us respond quickly and effectively. For example, restaurant 
employees globally have been using hand sanitizer after hand washing for years. Our 
relationships for sourcing hand sanitizer — and internal culture regarding its use — made it 
fairly seamless for us to expand sanitation procedures and increase requirements for personal 
protective equipment.  
 
At the same time, I’ve seen a level of cross-functional engagement and collaboration unlike 
ever before. New processes that once took months to implement were adopted in hours 
or days. I attribute this to Yum!’s culture of believing in all people, which I’ve seen from our 
executive team to franchisees and RGMs. Keeping our shared focus on what’s important 
— the safety of our team members and guests — has guided us to make the right decisions 
throughout this crisis. NUTRIENTS WE ENCOURAGE
ANTIBIOTICS
We continue our commitments to reduce antibiotics important to human 
medicine in our food production.
In 2019, Taco Bell pledged to reduce antibiotics 
important to human health in its  
U.S. and Canada beef supply chain,
25%     2025by
Taco Bell is making progress toward two 
goals announced in 2019. The first is a 
commitment to offering at least 50% of 
its medium fountain beverages at 100 
calories and 20 grams of sugar or less by 
2022. To reach this goal, the brand has 
removed extra-large, 40-ounce soda cups 
and added zero-sugar versions of two of its most popular 
beverages. Pepsi Zero Sugar and Mountain Dew Baja 
Blast Zero Sugar are now available across the U.S. With 
these new additions, over 40% of Taco Bell’s medium 
beverages are 100 calories or less.This new policy around Taco Bell’s dominant menu protein, beef, will better 
protect human, animal and environmental health. As part of this new 
policy, Taco Bell will give preference to suppliers that are making measured 
reductions in their use of antibiotics, increasing veterinary oversight when it is 
required to medically treat sick animals and participating in the Beef Quality 
Assurance system. While we do not expect to have quantitative progress to 
share until 2022, promising work is underway as we engage with U.S. Round 
Table for Sustainable Beef (USRSB), suppliers, industry groups including the 
Beef Alliance and National Cattleman’s Beef Association, veterinary groups, 
academic partners and more to address this challenge. 
This is in addition to the existing work we have done to date to make progress 
on our antimicrobial stewardship journey. KFC, Pizza Hut (chicken for its pizzas) 
and Taco Bell in the U.S. have met public commitments to remove antibiotics 
important to human medicine from their U.S. poultry supplies. Pizza Hut U.S. is 
on track to remove antibiotics important to human medicine from chicken used 
for wings by 2022.
ANIMAL WELFARE
KFC introduced new global chicken welfare KPIs as a key next step on its 
animal welfare journey. The KPIs address mobility while chickens are raised, 
overall chicken health and minimization of medical interventions, chicken 
mortality, and mental and physical stress. Additionally, KFC U.K. & Ireland 
published its first annual animal welfare report, described as an honest 
and open review of its poultry supply chain. The report outlines the seven 
steps of the audit process and key data capture, which KFC U.K. & Ireland 
will use as a benchmark to track year-on-year progress and hold themselves 
and their suppliers accountable as they work toward improving the lives of 
chicken within the supply chain.Raised Responsibly
We believe we have a responsibility 
to be a good steward of the animals 
raised for food throughout our supply 
chain. Our commitment to animal 
health and well-being is steadfast 
and guided by our holistic, science-
based Sustainable Animal Protein 
Principles . Additionally, we support 
the Five Freedoms  for all animals 
used for food in our supply chain.
We are pursuing a goal to reduce sodium across our global menu portfolios, 
consistent with Yum!’s global nutrition criteria, to continue to improve our 
food’s nutrition, with plans to share progress in 2021.
*Except beverages, co-branded items and off-the-shelf items. Progress Toward Goal
No Artificial Colors No Artificial Flavors No PHO92%85%95%In 2019
of Yum! food offerings met 
our global nutrition criteria 
for meal options.*of menu food offerings will be 
consistent with Yum! global 
nutrition criteria for meal options.42% 50%FOOD
Balanced Choices 
We continue to be transparent and improve the nutritional value of our food. 
In line with Yum!’s global nutrition standards, we’re committed to providing 
consumers with more access to balanced food choices that meet their lifestyles 
and dietary preferences and are less processed or modified. Our recent efforts 
have focused on collecting data to help inform our work when it comes to 
offering more balanced choice and where we can make improvements. 
NUTRIENTS WE LIMIT
We’ve been simplifying our ingredients for years and have made steady 
progress towards our goal to remove artificial colors and flavors and partially 
hydrogenated oils (PHO) by 2020.* There’s still more work to do, but we are 
proud of our progress to date. By 2030
*Yum! seeks to use calories as the primary measurement within our nutrition criteria to drive 
improvements and align with the World Health Organization and the Dietary Guidelines for 
Americans, and is consistent with the 1/3 Recommended Daily Allowance. To align with these 
guidelines, Yum!’s global nutrition criteria is: a side item at 200 calories, a main item at 400 calories, 
and a combo/meal at 750 calories.23 22
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPlant-based & Vegetarian
A trend we’ve been tracking for several years now is the accelerating shift toward plant-forward eating. Whether out of concerns for the 
environment, personal health or animal welfare, this lifestyle is now so mainstream that it can no longer be called a trend. From diners 
who choose exclusively vegan and vegetarian options, to flexitarians who enjoy a meat-free meal every now and then, KFC, Pizza Hut, 
Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill are responding to today’s preferences with menu items for everyone. Here are a few examples from 
our brands in the world of plant-based foods:
KFC is offering finger lickin’ good flavor without the meat in partnership 
with leading plant-based meat suppliers like Beyond Meat and Quorn. 
Following successful pilots in the U.S., U.K., Canada and elsewhere, the 
brand plans to expand these options in the years to come.
Pizza Hut U.K. has offered Violife vegan cheese pizza since 2017 — and in 
2020, took it to the next level with vegan Stuffed Crust. In Australia,  
Pizza Hut launched a Pizzatarian campaign. The brand has also tested 
vegan pizza in China, Poland and Puerto Rico through a partnership with 
Beyond Meat. In the U.S., Pizza Hut conducted a limited test of a pizza 
featuring Incogmeato by MorningStar Farms Italian sausage.
Taco Bell continues looking for ways to make it easier for customers 
to order Taco Bell’s AVA-certified menu items, including the recent 
addition of “Veggie Mode,” a single-swipe feature that instantly 
transforms the menu on self-service ordering kiosks across the U.S. to 
show only vegetarian items. Taco Bell’s American Vegetarian Association (AVA)-certified menu has 
individual ingredients that can be customized in nearly one million 
ways, including 36 vegetarian ingredients, 26 of which are also vegan. 
All AVA-certified vegetarian items are indicated by an easy-to-spot 
vegetarian green “V” symbol on menu boards. 
In Finland and Spain, Taco Bell launched the “Oatrageous Taco,” 
made with an oat-based protein, to continue meeting the evolving 
preferences of customers around the world.Goal Status
Maintain the safest, 
highest-quality food 
supply and preparation 
in the industry.Through food safety audits, provide restaurant team 
member training on employee health, product handling, 
ingredient and product management and prevention of 
cross-contamination.Since 2016, Yum! has conducted more than  
367,000 restaurant food safety audits.
Build on Yum! supplier audit track record and assess 
100% of Tier 1 suppliers annually by 2021.Achieved our intermediate target of assessing 60% of 
suppliers in 2019.Food Safety
Be the preferred 
restaurant for consumers 
seeking delicious, 
balanced options 
by offering more 
choice and nutritional 
improvements to  
our food.Offer lower-calorie menu options across main dishes, 
combos and sides, consistent with Yum!’s global nutrition 
standards that align with the World Health Organization and 
the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, to continue to improve 
our food’s nutrition. By 2030, we intend to represent 50% 
of menu food offerings to be consistent with Yum! global 
nutrition criteria for meal options.In 2019, Yum! reported that it was  
84% of the way to meeting its goal.  
Provide consumers with convenient access to food 
information regarding menu labeling and allergens.Continue publishing online nutrition calculators for all three brands’  
U.S. menus and providing consumers with convenient access to allergen 
and nutrition information.
Offer plant-forward product innovation to meet the lifestyle 
choices of consumers.• Taco Bell U.S. launched “Veggie Mode” which transforms the entire 
menu into vegetarian options.
• Expanded plant-based tests at KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell brands 
around the world. 
Continue clean label efforts to remove artificial colors, 
flavors and partially hydrogenated oils (PHOs) where 
possible from core food ingredients by 2020.• Removed 92% of artificial coloring
• Removed 85% of artificial flavors
• Removed 95% of PHOs
Reduce sodium across menu options, consistent with Yum!’s 
global nutrition standards, to continue to improve our food’s 
nutrition. We plan to share progress in 2021.On average, Taco Bell has reduced sodium across its  
menu by 23% since 2008, with a target goal of 25%  
by 2025.Balanced Choices
Be a good steward of  
the animals raised for 
food throughout our 
supply chain. Continue commitments to reduce  
antibiotics important to human  
medicine used in raising animals  
in the U.S. • KFC, Pizza Hut (chicken for its pizzas) and Taco Bell in the U.S. have 
met public commitments to remove antibiotics important to human 
medicine from our U.S. poultry supply. 
• Pizza Hut U.S. is on track to remove antibiotics important to human 
medicine from chicken used for wings by 2022.
• Taco Bell aims to reduce antibiotics important to human health in its 
U.S. and Canada beef supply chain by 25% by 2025 and plans to share 
progress in 2022. 
• Continuing to engage with beef suppliers to gather data and  
educate about commitments.
Seek continuous improvements in sustainable production 
systems that protect human, animal and environmental 
health as stated in our holistic Sustainable Animal Protein 
Principles & Good Antimicrobial Stewardship Program.• KFC introduced new global chicken welfare KPIs as a key step on its 
animal welfare journey.
• Taco Bell U.S. continues to source 100% cage-free eggs and egg 
ingredients in the U.S. and Canada.Raised Responsibly
Promote transparency 
about our food through 
responsible labeling 
and advertising  
practices in our 
restaurants and beyond.Limit marketing communications to children under 12. Yum! Brands follows U.S. and international guidelines to avoid 
marketing to children.Responsible 
MarketingFOOD  2019 Performance SummaryFOOD25 24
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPLANET
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTOur Planet Journey
• Yum! set first paper-based 
packaging goal.
• Yum! introduced Yum! 
Blueline green building 
standards.• Yum! set first  
energy conservation 
goal.
2006
2008
2009
2010
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020• Yum! became member of United 
States Green Building Council 
(USGBC).• Created Yum! Office of Sustainability. 
• Yum! achieved first Leadership in  
Energy and Environmental Design  
(LEED) certification for green  
restaurant in Northampton, 
Massachusetts.
• Yum! started reporting to CDP 
Climate (and to CDP Water in  
2011 and CDP Forests in 2017).
• Yum! set first water reduction goal.
• Yum! set first palm oil goal.
• Yum! set first operational waste goal.
• Yum! achieved goal of 15% energy 
reduction by 2015 for company-owned 
restaurants.• Yum! joined Roundtable 
on Sustainable Palm Oil 
(RSPO).• Yum! achieved 
goal of 10% water 
reduction and 
22% energy and 
greenhouse gas 
(GHG) reduction.• Yum! joined NextGen 
Consortium.• KFC announced global plastics commitment.
• Yum! started exploring how to reduce GHG 
emissions by setting science-based targets.
• Yum! endorsed New York Declaration on Forests 
(NYDF), expanding deforestation commitments 
to palm oil, soy, paper and beef.
• Yum! opened 34th LEED-certified  
restaurant.• Taco Bell announced global consumer-facing 
packaging and recycling commitment.
• Yum! announced plans to move corporate 
offices to renewable energy and sustainable 
packaging as well as to intensify action to 
reduce plastic waste.
PLANET  
We Grow Sustainably
We are balancing business growth with 
environmental sustainability. With the 
Yum! franchise system opening new 
restaurants every day, it’s important that 
we use our scale for good to minimize  
the environmental impact of our 
restaurants and supply chain.27
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
RECIPE NOTES  
Sustainability Solutions Driven by Data 
with Jon Hixson,  
Yum! Vice President of Global Government  
Affairs & SustainabilityQ
A
Q: How has Yum!’s approach to environmental issues changed in recent years? 
A:  We’ve made strong progress on our sustainability agenda through efforts to operate green buildings 
and foster a responsible supply chain. Now, we’re taking a more focused look at climate change, the 
most important environmental issue that we manage and the one that encompasses all other issues. 
We’re asking ourselves questions like, “What are a global restaurant company’s most significant 
contributions to climate change?” and, “How can Yum! mitigate our impact and be part of the 
solution?” 
Q: Where are you finding answers to these questions? 
A:  Yum! learned much from our research on setting science-based targets (SBTs) for GHG emissions. 
Our research project involved six phases of work, which ultimately outline a path for Yum! to reduce 
our emissions to levels aligned with the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees 
Celsius. We are working with a third-party partner to assess our current GHG footprint and identify 
the most promising abatement measures, both in terms of GHG reduction potential and cost of 
implementation. 
Q:  Supply chain emissions can be complex to manage because they involve many variables 
that are beyond your control. How will Yum! address these indirect climate impacts? 
A:  Prioritization and focus are important when it comes to addressing climate issues. Emissions from 
purchased goods and our buildings account for about 94% of our Scope 3 emissions. Within 
purchased goods of food,more than three-fourths of those emissions are from beef, dairy and chicken. 
In terms of absolute GHG emissions, one of our largest areas of focus must be our U.S. food supply 
chain where we purchase large volumes of beef, dairy and chicken. We also know that the impact is 
greater when animals are raised on or receive feed ingredients from freshly deforested or converted 
land. As part of our risk assessment and strategy, we reviewed research and data from the United 
Nations' Food and Agriculture Office, which monitors the emissions from Land Use, Land Use Change 
and Forestry (LULCF). After looking at global food systems emissions, carbon sinks and LULCF, we 
developed strategic priorities for our work on climate change and sustainability ( see chart on pg. 27 ). 
 
We continue to engage with and improve all elements of our supply chain. In addition, through review 
of our own supply chain and global research, we will focus on the U.S. and a handful of tropical regions 
in Asia and Latin America that are critical to the world’s food supply. In partnership with WWF, we are 
exploring ways to identify and remove deforestation in our supply chain, which includes both shifting 
our sourcing and engaging with suppliers in higher-risk areas to promote more sustainable practices. 
It’s this kind of thinking that will allow Yum! to address climate change in a truly holistic way.Climate Change Management
Of the issues that Yum! must manage, climate change is among the most urgent and important. Our company is in the process of 
developing science-based targets (SBTs). These targets will build on our decade-long track record of making progress and will help ensure 
that we continue to make progress in the most impactful ways possible. This includes impact areas both within our business, such as the 
efficiency of our offices and restaurants, and within our supply chain, such as the agricultural and land use practices employed when it 
comes to beef, chicken and dairy. The submission of our SBTs for third-party review is expected to be complete by the end of 2020.PLANET
Food System Contribution to National GHG Emissions
Plant-based and Animal-based Agricultur e
Land Use,  Land Use Change and Fo restry
Total
U.S. Canada Australia Europe Brazil Indonesia0%
-10%
-20%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%
Sources cited on pg. 42 .Plant-based and Animal-based Agricultur e
Land Use,  Land Use Change and Fo restry
Total
U.S. Canada Australia Europe Brazil Indonesia0%
-10%
-20%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%Yum!’s Path to a Science-Based Target
Identify Emissions Reduction Initiatives
Review relevant GHG categories and abatement 
options. Develop marginal abatement cost 
curves that help us understand costs and 
prioritize various abatement measures.Determine GHG Footprint
Determine Yum!’s Scope 1, 2, 3 GHG 
footprint based on Yum! survey data.
Develop a GHG Reduction Target
Develop a GHG reduction target that  
aligns with the methodologies and  
requirements of SBTi.Create Roadmap and Management  
Decision Package
Show Yum! how to meet its GHG  
reduction target.1 3
2 4
Renewable Energy 
In 2020, we achieved our goal to shift our corporate U.S. offices to 100% renewable energy as a continued 
investment in green power. Additionally, markets around the world continue to leverage green technology. 
In Australia, 12 restaurants use on-site solar generation with a capacity of 279KW .
29
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PLANET
Forest Stewardship 
We have long been committed to reducing our environmental impact by minimizing deforestation risk. To support further progress toward no deforestation  
and using our scale to positively impact the broader industry, we endorsed  the New York Declaration on Forests (NYDF) and the private sector goal of 
eliminating deforestation from the production of agriculture commodities such as palm oil, soy, paper and beef products no later than 2020, halving the 
rate of loss of natural forest globally by 2020 and striving to end natural forest loss by 2030. To meet this goal, we must strengthen our efforts related to all 
four of our key commodities: timber, palm, soy and beef. 
We are making solid progress 
toward our goal, currently at 
76%, to purchase 100% of our 
paper-based packaging with 
fiber from responsibly managed 
forests and recycled sources by 
the end of 2020.
In 2019, we achieved our goal of 
sourcing 100% of palm oil used 
for cooking from responsibly 
managed sources, with third-
party certification from the 
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO).A key part of our strategy is 
sourcing beef from areas of low risk 
when it comes to deforestation. 
Beef sourced from Brazil is 
associated with a high risk of 
tropical deforestation. In 2019,  
less than 1% of beef served at Yum! 
restaurants was reported to come 
from this region.
Soy, which is often used in chicken 
feed, contributes to deforestation 
in certain parts of the world. We will 
focus initially on the direct sourcing 
of poultry purchasing from high risk 
areas. In 2019, 100%  of Brazilian 
feed mills in our supply chain were 
audited as compliant in aligning 
with the Amazon Soy Moratorium.Timber
PalmBeef
SoyWaste Reduction 
Yum! is committed to first reducing, and then mindfully reusing or recycling 
the waste generated at our restaurants. Making meaningful progress in this 
area requires us to confront a number of challenges, from a changing global 
recycling market to a patchwork of regulations in the U.S. and countries 
worldwide. We are working across our industry on solutions as a member of the 
Sustainable Packaging Coalition and NextGen Consortium. At the same time, 
packaging engineers at each of our brands are innovating solutions. At the 
Yum! corporate and brand levels, we plan to reach a number of packaging waste 
milestones over the next several years:
2020By the end of the year, all plastic packaging used 
at our corporate headquarters will be reusable, 
recyclable or compostable.
2022We will remove Styrofoam and expanded polystyrene  
from packaging at all KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell 
locations globally. 
2025Taco Bell will make all its consumer-facing packaging 
recyclable, compostable or reusable, eliminate any 
PFAS, phthalates and BPA from its packaging, and 
add recycling and/or composting bins to restaurants 
globally where infrastructure permits.
2025KFC  will make all plastic-based, consumer-facing 
packaging recoverable or reusable globally.Sustainable Soy Sourcing
When it comes to our sustainable soy sourcing journey, we are working to  
better understand this supply chain so we can provide more transparency  
and help identify risk over time, with an initial focus on the direct sourcing of 
poultry purchasing. We recognize that the soy supply chain is very complex,  
and the process for accessing data and accurately reporting will require a 
phased approach.
Our ongoing work with WWF and the Accountability Framework for an  
ethical supply chain will be critical to guiding our path forward, which will 
include setting commitments, taking action and demonstrating progress in 
regard to our deforestation-free commitment, traceability and monitoring  
and verification.Palm Oil Traceability
In line with our continued commitment to transparency, Yum!’s 
crude palm oil (CPO) mill list is available as a part of our CDP 
filing . In addition, for our disclosed suppliers, the following 
companies are all members of the RSPO and offer publicly 
available traceability programs for palm oil refineries and  
CPO mills: 
• Wilmar
• Sime Darby
• Cargill
• CPI
• KLK
• ApicalTo meet its goal, KFC has developed a roadmap that includes partnering with 
major suppliers and franchisees globally to identify plastic alternatives in 
each market. The brand is currently conducting an audit of existing systems, 
partnering with suppliers to identify sustainable packaging alternatives and 
setting market-specific goals to reduce, reuse and recycle. Several markets have 
already announced and implemented commitments, such as plastic straw bans 
in Singapore, Romania, France and Canada and removal of consumer plastic 
bags from KFC restaurants in India. 
Taco Bell is making progress by adding recycling and composting bins to 
its restaurants where infrastructure permits. The brand has committed to 
making all cups recyclable by 2021 as an interim goal. It is also in the process 
of reducing the number of packaging items in its portfolio while reducing the 
weight of packaging it purchases in a given year through design efficiencies and 
light-weighting.
Water Consumption
Yum! has a long history of working to reduce water 
consumption, and we continue to focus our efforts on 
high water-stressed areas. An important step forward in 
2019 was the completion of an enterprise-wide water risk 
assessment of our 50,000 restaurant locations worldwide. We used the WRI 
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas to map and analyze our restaurant locations, and 
the assessment identified more than 150 restaurants located in high-risk water 
basins around the world. The assessment is helping to inform our water strategy 
moving forward when it comes to projecting 2030 water stress that considers 
physical, regulatory and reputational risks.
Five Elements of Supply Chain 
Management
Deforestation 
Conversion-Free 
Alignment
Supplier Engagement Internal OperationsRisk Profile Monitor, Verify & Report31
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 302019 GRI INDEX
Goal StatusPLANET  2019 Performance Summary
Engage in building 
a responsible supply chain that protects forests, respects human rights, supports sustainable sourcing and enables good stewardship.By 2025, KFC plastic-based, consumer-facing packaging will be recoverable or reusable globally. By 2025, Taco Bell consumer-facing packaging will be recyclable, compostable or reusable globally with chemical additives of concern removed. As intermediate steps, Taco Bell is committed to making all cups recyclable by 2021, and Yum! will remove Styrofoam and expanded polystyrene from all packaging by 2022, as well as meet the goal in its U.S. corporate of
fi
ces by the end of 2020.•T he first global survey of purchased plastics was conducted to collect 2019 
data. While there is still work to do when it comes to refining our data 
collection, approximately 18% of resins come from recycled sources, 14% pre-consumer and 4% post-consumer. Expanded polystyrene, of which Styrofoam is a component, consists of 2% of the reported plastic used by our system.
•
KFC mark
ets are working with suppliers to identify, test and implement 
solutions. Some markets, including Canada, France, Romania and Singapore, have implemented plastic straw bans.
Source 100% of palm oil used for cooking from 
responsible and sustainable sources by the end of 2019.In 2019, 100% of palm oil used for cooking was certified sustainable by the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil. We continue to look for opportunities to reduce the environmental footprint of our palm oil use.
Purchase 100% of our paper-based packaging with fiber from responsibly managed forests and recycled sources by the end of 2020.In 2019, an estimated total of 76% of fiber came from certified  
forests or recycled sources.
Endorsed the New 
York Declaration on Forests (NYDF) 
and the private sector goal of eliminating deforestation from the production of agriculture commodities such as palm oil, soy, paper and beef products no later than 2020; halving the rate of loss of natural forest globally by 2020; and striving to end natural forest loss by 2030.• In 2019,  100% of Brazilian feed mills in our supply chain were audited as 
compliant in aligning with the Amazon Soy Moratorium to help protect 
tropical forests.
•
 
99% of our reported beef supply was sourced from origins of low-risk 
tropical deforestation in 2019.
•
 In 2019,
 we disclosed information on our beef usage 
through CDP Forests.Supply ChainDesign, build and 
operate restaurants to be measurably more sustainable using green building standards to drive reductions in energy consumption, water use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and waste.Reduce average restaurant energy and GHG emissions by an additional 10%,  
from our 2017 baseline, by the end of
 2025.•Since 2018,  we reduced our company GHG emissions 8.5% on a per-
restaurant average.
•In 2019,
 our system environmental efforts for restaurants avoided the 
release of 723,922 MTCO2e, the equivalent of the annual emissions of
156,399 passenger vehicles driven for a year.
Yum!’s corporate U.S. offices will use 100% renewable energy by the end of 2020. We purchased renewable energy credits, entered into a power purchasing agreement to offset our electricity use and are exploring onsite options for the future.
Reduce average restaurant water consumption by 10%, from our 2017 baseline, by the end of 2025. • 
 Since 2017,
 water consumption on a per-restaurant basis has 
increased due to the use of expanded reporting and more usage. 
•
 In 2019,
 our conservation measures helped avoid the use of
295,905,766 gallons of water. 
•
 T
he World Resources Institute, Aqueduct 3.0, determined 17% of our 
restaurants are located in areas of high water risk.
Divert 50% of back-of-house operational waste, measured by weight, generated in our U.S. restaurants by the end of 2020.•In 2019, we estimate that 964,739 tons of solid material was 
removed from our U.S. restaurants and we avoided the disposal of 20% of that waste.
•
 T
aco Bell will add recycling and/or composting bins to restaurants 
where infrastructure permits.
•
 KFC 
Australia diverted about 40% of its waste in 2019.
Reduce food loss waste 50% by 2030 in accordance  
with U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions.Y
um! Brands and our franchisees donated 5.95 million pounds of food 
in 2019, with 33 countries participating. Green BuildingsPLANET
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGRI Standards 
Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Organizational profile 
102-1 Name of the organization Yum! Brands, Inc.  
2019 Form 10-K, Cover Page
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Yum! does not intentionally sell items that are banned in individual markets. 2019 Form 10-K, pg. 3
102-3 Location of headquarters
Louisville, Kentucky 2019 Form 10-K, pg. 3
102-4 Location of operations
As of December 31, 2019, there were 50,150 restaurants in 152 countries and territories .  
2019 Form 10-K, pg. 3 Yum! Brands, Inc. Historical Financial Summary
102-5 Ownership and legal form
Publicly traded company 2019 Form 10-K, Cover Page
102-6 Markets served
As of December 31, 2019, there were 50,150 restaurants in 152 countries and territories. 2019 Form 10-K, pg. 3
102-7 Scale of the organization
Total Number of Employees: 2019 Form 10-K, pg. 7 Total Number of Operations: 2019 Form 10-K, pg. 3 Net Revenues: 2019 Form 10-K, pg. 24 Quality of Products or Services Provided: 2019 Form 10-K, pgs. 3-7
102-8 Information on employees and other workers
Workforce Diversity Report  
2019 Form 10-K, pg. 7
102-9 Supply chain 2019 Form 10-K, pg. 5
102-10 Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chainOn March 18, 2020, we completed the acquisition of The Habit Burger Grill, whose operations will be included in future reporting cycles. 
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach
Yum! does not have an official policy as it pertains to the precautionary principle, but we do assess risks across our organization.  Approach - Risk & Issue Management, pg. 6 2019 Form 10-K, pgs. 7-18
102-12 External initiatives
Alliance on Foodborne Illness Better Buildings Alliance CDC Antimicrobial Resistance Challenge CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion Dairy Sustainability Alliance  Food Waste Reduction Alliance Multi-Cultural Foodservice & Hospitality   
    Alliance New York Declaration on Forests  
NextGen Consortium MIT Solve  
One HealthParadigm for ParityRoundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil  Sustainable Packaging Coalition   
Sustainable Palm Oil The Consortium The Paper Cup Recovery and Recycling Group  U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in      Energy and Environmental Design  U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Poultry & Eggs U.S. Roundtable on Sustainable Beef We Are All Human – The Hispanic Promise Women’s Foodservice Forum   
World Resources Institute  
World Wildlife Fund
102-13 Membership of associations Trade Association and Policy-Based Organization Support Approach - Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 8The 2019 Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report is prepared according to Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards 
Core option. GRI is the most widely recognized framework for sustainability reporting.33
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGRI INDEX GRI INDEX
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker A Message From David Gibbs, pg. 4
Strategy
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities A Message From David Gibbs, pg. 4 
Approach - Materiality, pg. 7 
CDP-Climate Change , 2020 Response 
CDP-Water Security , 2020 Response 
CDP-Forests , 2020 Response 
People-2019 Performance Summary, pg. 17 
Food-2019 Performance Summary, pg. 23 
Planet-2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 
of behavior People-2019 Performance Summary, pg. 17 
Global Code of Conduct 
Supplier Code of Conduct
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethicsGlobal Code of Conduct 
Supplier Code of Conduct
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Approach - ESG Governance, pg. 6 
2020 Proxy Statement , pgs. 24-25
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Approach - Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 8 
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements As of December 31, 2019, approximately 1.7% of employees reported to be represented by an 
independent trade union or covered by collective bargaining agreements. 
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Approach - Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 8 
Stakeholder Engagement
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Approach - Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 8  
Stakeholder Engagement
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Approach - Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 8 
Stakeholder Engagement
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements 2019 Form 10-K, pg. 3
102-46 Defining report content and topic 
Boundaries Approach - Materiality, pg. 7
102-47 List of material topics Approach - Materiality, pg. 7
102-48 Restatements of information Yum! has no restatements of information to report.
102-49 Changes in reporting About this Report, pg. 42
102-50 Reporting period About this Report, pg. 42
102-51 Date of most recent report The 2018 Global Citizenship & Sustainability Progress Update was released July 30, 2019.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 
report Please send comments or questions about this report to citizenship@yum.com.
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 
GRI StandardsAbout this Report, pg. 42 
102-55 GRI content index 2019 GRI Index, pgs. 31-41102-56 External assurance Our GHG Emissions and Water Withdrawal for the year ending December 31, 2019 has been 
verified by an independent third-party accountant to be presented in accordance with the WRI/
WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition 
for Scope 1 and 3 and the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Guidance; an amendment 
to the GHG protocol Corporate Standard and the Water Withdrawal using attestation standards 
established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). View a copy of the 
report . We do not currently seek external assurance for our report.
GRI 200: ECONOMIC
GRI 201: Economic Performance 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary2019 Form 10-K
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
201-1 Direct economic value generated and 
distributed2019 Form 10-K, pg. 52
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeCDP-Climate Change , 2020 Response 
CDP-Water Security , 2020 Response 
CDP-Forests , 2020 Response
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum! Brands’ success is built on the integrity and high ethical standards of our employees. Our 
Global Code of Conduct is the foundation for the way that we conduct ourselves and do business 
throughout the world. Every year, our board of directors and Yum!’s 4,000 most senior employees 
must certify in writing that they have read and understand the code and compile a conflicts of 
interest questionnaire. The code is available online in seven languages.  
 
Yum! Global Code of Conduct 
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 
actions takenThere were no confirmed incidents of corruption during 2019.
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum! Global Code of Conduct 
2019 Form 10-K, pg. 6
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust and monopoly 
practicesNo legal actions were taken for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust or monopoly practices  
during 2019.
GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 301: Materials
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum!’s sustainable sourcing policies seek to encourage the production of sustainable raw 
materials that support the environment and the communities that supply them. We are focused on 
eliminating deforestation in our global supply chains through key commodities of palm oil, paper, 
beef and soy, as well as encouraging the more responsible use and production of plastics to benefit 
the planet.  
 
Planet - Forest Stewardship, Palm Oil, Sustainable Soy, Waste Reduction, pgs. 28-29 
Planet - 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30 
CDP Forests 2020 Response 
Global Forest Stewardship Policy 
Palm Oil Policy 
Paper-based Packaging Sourcing Policy  
Sustainable Packaging Policy103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach35
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34GRI INDEX GRI INDEX
301-2 Recycled input materials used As part of our approach to sustainable materials, we encourage the use of recycled sources of 
material in packaging and servicewares as feasible and as allowed by local regulations. Most of 
these are either fiber or plastic-based and a directional estimate of used recycled input materials 
is provided below for each category. We collect this data as part of our annual sustainability survey 
and will continue to refine our data collection process. 
 
Fiber from recycled sources: 29% 
Plastic resins from recycled sources: 33%
GRI 302: Energy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPlanet - Renewable Energy, pg. 27,  
Planet - 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30 
CDP Climate Change 2020 Response103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organizationEnergy 
Consumption 
from Renewable 
Sources Energy 
Consumption from 
Non-Renewable 
SourcesTotal Energy 
Consumption 
Consumption of Fuel (MWh)  -   108,961  108,961 
Consumption of purchased of acquired 
electricity (MWh) 76,668  212,674  289,342 
Consumption of purchased or acquired 
heat (MWh) -   11,607  11,607 
Consumption of purchased or acquired 
steam (MWh) -   -   -  
Consumption of purchased or acquired 
cooling (MWh) -   -   -  
Consumption of self-generated non-fuel 
renewable energy (MWh) 285  -   285 
Total energy consumption (MWh)  76,953  333,242  410,195 
Total energy consumption (GJ)  277,031  1,199,671  1,476,702 
For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our 
CDP Climate Change 2020 Response.
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 
organizationTotal energy consumption for franchise restaurants is estimated to be 67,382,730 GJ. For 
information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP 
Climate Change 2020 Response.
302-3 Energy Intensity Based on the total energy consumed for company-owned and franchise restaurants (including 
company offices), the energy intensity ratio is 1,400 GJ/restaurant. This includes all types of energy 
that we use.
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption The anticipated annual quantity of reductions in energy consumption that will be achieved as a 
result of conservation and efficiency measures are 762,912 GJ. This includes company-owned 
and franchise restaurants and includes all types of energy that we use. This estimation does not 
include materialized savings realized from activities contributing to savings from prior years. For 
information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP 
Climate Change 2020 Response.
GRI 303: Water and Effluents
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPlanet - Water Consumption, pg. 29, 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30 
CDP Water Security 2020 Response
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared 
resourcePlanet - Water Consumption, pg. 29, 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30 
CDP Water Security 2020 Response303-2 Management of water discharge-related 
impactsPlanet - Water Consumption, pg. 29, 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30 
CDP Water Security 2020 Response
303-3 Water withdrawal Total company withdrawals for the reporting year are estimated to be 2,175.45 ML. All material 
withdrawals are from freshwater, third-party systems. Total water withdrawal for company locations 
located in water-stressed areas, as defined by WRI Aqueduct, is estimated to be 364.60 ML. For 
information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations refer to our CDP 
Water Security 2020 Response.
303-4 Water discharge Total company discharges for company locations for the reporting year are estimated to be  
1,857.3 ML. All material withdrawals are from third-party systems. Material discharges to third-
party water are estimated to be 1,226.32 ML and discharges to groundwater are 630.99 ML. 
Total water discharges for company locations located in water-stressed areas, as defined by WRI 
Aqueduct, are estimated to be 35.545 ML to third-party water and 19.14 ML to groundwater. 
Groundwater discharges are for irrigation. Discharges are fresh water.  
 
We seek to follow all local laws and regulations for frequency of monitoring, should it be required. 
Restaurants are designed to produce discharges of an acceptable quality for treatment by 
municipal facilities. Municipalities test discharge according to their regulations. Adherence to local 
laws is typically controlled by regulatory permits. The organization was not subject to any material 
penalties relating to wastewater regulations in the reporting year.  
 
For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our 
CDP Water Security 2020 Response.
303-5 Water consumption Total company water consumption for the reporting year is estimated to be 318.14 ML. Total 
consumption for company locations in water-stressed areas, as defined by WRI Aqueduct, is 
estimated to be 54.69 ML. For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and 
calculations, refer to our CDP Water Security 2020 Response.
GRI 305: Emissions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPlanet - Our Planet Journey, pg. 25; Recipe Notes: Sustainability Solutions Driven by Data, Climate 
Change Management, pgs. 26-27; 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Gross Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions: 23,544.71 MT CO2e (location based), CDP Climate Change 
2020 Response , pg. 27 
 
GHG emissions include four of the seven greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon 
dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Perfluorocarbons 
(PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions are not included in our 
reporting, as we do not use coolants that generate these greenhouse gases. Biogenic carbon is not 
relevant to our Scope 1 GHG emissions. Source emission factors can be viewed in our Statement 
of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal . For information regarding standards, 
methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Climate Change 2020 Response , 
pgs. 25-26.
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Gross Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: 140,341.33 MT CO2e (location based), CDP Climate 
Change 2020 Response , pg. 27 
Gross Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: 144,312.92 MT CO2e (market based), CDP Climate Change 
2020 Response , pg. 27 
 
GHG emissions include four of the seven greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon 
dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), Perfluorocarbons 
(PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions have been omitted from 
our Scope 2 reporting, as we do not generate material quantities of these greenhouse gases. Per 
the GHG Protocol, biogenic emissions are omitted since grid factors are used. Source emission 
factors can be viewed in our Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal . For 
information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP 
Climate Change 2020 Response , pgs. 25-26.37
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGRI INDEX GRI INDEX
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions: 36,159,737.13 MT CO2e, CDP Climate Change 2020 
Response , pgs. 27-31 
This total is comprised of the applicable category totals as follows:
• Purchased Goods and Services (Food, Cooking Oil, Plastic Service Wares, Fiber-Based 
Packaging): 25,929,374 MT CO2e
• Franchisees (Buildings Scope 1 and 2): 7,883,091 MT CO2e
• Upstream Transportation and Distribution: 1,058,626 MT CO2e
• Waste Generated in Operations: 778,577 MT CO2e
• Downstream Transportation and Distribution: 394,335 MT CO2e
• End of Life Treatment of Sold Products: 92,815 MT CO2e
• Business Travel: 22,919 MT CO2e
GHG emissions include four of the seven greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon 
dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Perfluorocarbons 
(PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions have been omitted 
from our reporting, as we do not generate material quantities of these greenhouse gases. Biogenic 
emissions, included in the totals above, resulting from Waste Generated in Operations and 
End of Life Treatment, are estimated at 864,033 MT. Source emission factors can be viewed in 
our Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal . For information regarding 
standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Climate Change 2020 
Response , pgs. 27-31.
305-4 GHG emissions intensity GHG emissions intensity: 0.00029 MT CO2e per unit total revenue for Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
GHG emissions intensity: 185 MT CO2e per restaurant (based on average restaurant count) for 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
 
For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our 
CDP Climate Change 2020 Response , pgs. 25-31.
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions The anticipated annual quantity of reductions in GHG emissions that will be achieved as a result 
of conservation and efficiency measures implemented during the reporting year was 716,717 MT 
CO2e. This includes equity and franchise restaurants and includes all resulting gases. This estimate 
does not include materialized savings realized from activities contributing to savings from prior 
years. For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to 
our CDP Climate Change 2020 Response , pgs. 21-25.
305-6 Emission of ozone-depleting substances We do not produce ozone depleting substances (ODS). However, we do use refrigeration and 
air conditioning that contains ODS, and as while the equipment is operating according to 
manufacturer specifications, small amounts of leakage does occur. We estimate the following:
• Scope 1 HFC: 1.11 MT
• Scope 2 HFC: not applicable
• Scope 3 HFC (franchise restaurants): 46.22 MT
Source emission factors can be viewed in our Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water 
Withdrawal .
305-7 Nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and other 
significant air emissions.The release of nitrous oxide and methane are calculated and included in our total MT CO2e 
calculations. The quantities of these gases are as follows:
• Scope 1 CH4: 14.49 MT
• Scope 2 CH4: 3.64 MT 
• Scope 3 CH4: 755.82 MT
• Scope 1 N2O: 0.17 MT 
• Scope 2 N2O: 2.17 MT 
• Scope 3 N2O: 22.90 MT
Perfluorocarbons (PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions 
is not included in our reporting, as we do not knowingly generate material quantities of these 
greenhouse gases. Source emission factors can be viewed in our Statement of Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions and Water Withdrawal .GRI 306: Waste
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPlanet - Waste Reduction, pg. 29; 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-
related impactsPlanet - Waste Reduction, pg. 29; 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30
306-2 Management of significant waste-related 
impactsPlanet - Waste Reduction, pg. 29; 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30
306-3 Waste generated The collection of data regarding waste is challenging, and estimates provided are based on data 
submitted by our U.S., Australian and United Kingdom business units and extrapolated, on a 
per-restaurant average basis, to provide a global view. The total weight of non-hazardous waste 
removed from restaurants, both company-owned and franchise, is an estimated 2,249,900 MT. 
We do not generate material quantities of hazardous waste. It does not account for products 
and packaging intended for consumer consumption outside of the restaurants. Although there 
is variation between brands and geographic localities, our analysis yields the following order of 
magnitude divisions, based on percentages, of generated waste from within restaurants:
• Organic waste: 899,960 MT
• Corrugated cardboard: 337,485 MT
• Paper packaging and other paper: 337,485 MT
• Mixed plastics: 337,485 MT
• Used cooking oil: 224,990 MT
• Other: 112,495 MT
Planet - Waste Reduction, pg. 29; 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal The collection of data regarding waste diverted from disposal is challenging, and estimates are 
limited to data submitted by our U.S., Australian and United Kingdom business. This data has not 
been extrapolated due to the extreme variation in global diversion infrastructure. The total weight 
of non-hazardous waste diverted in those markets is estimated to be 176,048 MT. This does not 
include diverted waste from other markets, although it is known to occur. We do not generate 
material quantities of hazardous waste. It does not account for products and packaging intended 
for consumer consumption outside of the restaurants. The recovery options are represented by the 
following:
• Recycling: 159,707 MT
• Biofuel and/or animal feed: 26,825 MT
• Food donation (in markets listed above): 2,533 MT
Planet - Waste Reduction, pg. 29; 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 30
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPlanet, pgs. 26-30 
Yum! Brands Global Forest Stewardship Policy 
Yum! Brands Palm Oil Policy  
Yum! Brands Paper-Based Packaging Sourcing Policy 
CDP-Forests, 2020 Response103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions takenPlanet - Forest Stewardship, pg. 28 
CDP-Forests, 2020 Response 
GRI 400: SOCIAL
GRI 401: Employment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPeople, pgs. 10-17 
Food - Recipe Notes: Building Upon Our Safety Strengths, pg. 20
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach39
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGRI INDEX GRI INDEX
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or 
part-time employeesYum! and our franchisees offer restaurant employees a range of medical benefits, childcare 
discounts, educational scholarships and tuition reimbursement, and gym discounts, as well as 
training and development opportunities. Our corporate above-restaurant employees benefit 
from a total rewards package that includes wellness programs, flexible working hours, a generous 
401(k) match and more. Most of the employee programs and benefits are applicable in the U.S. 
Internationally, benefits are tailored by market and role. 
 
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum! Brands is committed to maintaining a work environment that respects and supports 
human rights around the world. Our ethics and compliance program, based on our Global Code 
of Conduct, demands the highest ethical standards in all of our operations globally. This policy 
applies to all directors, officers and employees of Yum!, as well as to our international agents, 
consultants, joint venture partners and any other third-party representatives acting on our behalf. 
We respect the right of all employees to associate or not to associate with any group, as permitted 
by applicable laws and regulations. We require compliance with all local labor laws in every market 
where we operate. We have and will continue to partner with various stakeholders to collect input 
and help guide our human rights efforts. 
 
Yum! Brands Human Rights & Labor Policy 
Global Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 
operational changes We require our franchisees to fully comply with applicable national and/or local legal requirements 
for minimum notice periods regarding significant operational changes.
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryIt is Yum!’s policy to maintain a professional, safe work environment. Suppliers are also expected to 
provide their employees with safe and healthy working conditions.  
 
Food - Recipe Notes: Building Upon Our Safety Strengths, pg. 20 
People - Yum!’s COVID-19 Response, pg. 16  
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 10103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management systemFood - Recipe Notes: Building Upon Our Safety Strengths, pg. 20 
People - Yum!’s COVID-19 Response, pg. 16  
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 10
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 
and incident investigationFood - Recipe Notes: Building Upon Our Safety Strengths, pg. 20 
People - Yum!’s COVID-19 Response, pg. 16  
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 10
403-3 Occupational health services Food - Recipe Notes: Building Upon Our Safety Strengths, pg. 20 
People - Yum!’s COVID-19 Response, pg. 16  
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 10
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health 
and safetyFood - Recipe Notes: Building Upon Our Safety Strengths, pg. 20 
People - Yum!’s COVID-19 Response, pg. 16  
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 10
403-5 Worker training on occupational health 
and safetyFood - Recipe Notes: Building Upon Our Safety Strengths, pg. 20 
People - Yum!’s COVID-19 Response, pg. 16  
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 10
403-6 Promotion of worker health Food - Recipe Notes: Building Upon Our Safety Strengths, pg. 20 
People - Yum!’s COVID-19 Response, pg. 16  
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 10
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked 
by business relationships Food - Recipe Notes: Building Upon Our Safety Strengths, pg. 20 
People - Yum!’s COVID-19 Response, pg. 16  
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 10
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational 
health and safety management systemAll company restaurants are governed by safety standards and employees undertake training on 
those standards.GRI 404: Training and Education
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryWe sustain our winning culture by recruiting the best people and developing their potential. No 
matter where employees are within our organization or in their careers, continuing development 
is an important focus. We are proud to help restaurant employees develop skills and capabilities 
on the job, further their education and build successful careers. In addition to providing corporate 
employees with robust development plans, programs and learning platforms, we invest in them by 
providing meaningful roles and challenging opportunities. 
 
People - Equity, Inclusion & Belonging, pg. 13; Unlocking Opportunity, pg. 14; 2019 Performance 
Summary, pg. 17 103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programsPeople - Unlocking Opportunity Initiative, Strengthening Culture & Talent, pgs. 12-14; 2019 
Performance Summary, pg. 17 
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryPeople - Unlocking Opportunity Initiative, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging, pgs. 12-14; 2019 
Performance Summary, pg. 17 
103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 
employeesGender Percent Female Percent Male
Board of Directors 33% 67%
Executive  34% 66%
Leadership 44% 56%
Management (Restaurant and Above Restaurant) 48% 52%
Non-Management (Above Restaurant) 54% 46%
Non-Management (Restaurant) 55% 45%
Age Group Percent Under 30 Percent 30-50 Percent over 50
Board of Directors 0% 8% 92%
Total Employees 59% 31% 10%
Above Restaurant 15% 67% 18%
Restaurant 65% 26% 9%
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to menAt Yum!, we are committed to paying our employees fairly and equitably. Our pay practices are 
grounded in market-competitive and performance-based principles to attract, retain and reward 
world-class talent. We leverage tools and processes to ensure equitable pay decisions, including 
salary ranges and bonus targets by level, objective performance goals and ratings, and clear 
guidelines for merit increases, bonuses and long-term incentives tied to performance. 
In the United States, where a significant portion of our population resides, we run an annual 
statistical regression analysis to ensure that pay disparities by gender and ethnicity do not exist.  
Taking into account all job- and performance-related factors used in making pay decisions, the 
analysis finds we do not have any statistically significant variances in pay for any gender or ethnic 
group. We are committed to continuing to review and refine our practices and processes to ensure 
we are rewarding our employees fairly.41
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGRI INDEX GRI INDEX
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryWe respect the right of all employees to associate or not to associate with any group as permitted 
by applicable laws and regulations. Suppliers must respect the rights of workers to associate, 
organize and bargain collectively in a lawful and peaceful manner without penalty or interference.  
 
Yum! Brands Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy 
Yum! Brands Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy 
Global Code of Conduct 
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the 
right to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining may be at riskEmployees and suppliers who have any concerns can report those concerns to our independent, 
third-party system called “The Network.” 
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryFair employment practices do more than keep Yum! in compliance with applicable labor and 
employment laws. They help us attract and retain the best talent for our workforce. Yum! is 
committed to not using forced or compulsory labor. Suppliers are also required to follow this policy. 
 
Yum! Brands Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy 
Yum! Brands Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy 
Global Code of Conduct 
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant 
risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 
laborFair employment practices do more than keep Yum! in compliance with applicable labor and 
employment laws. They help us attract and retain the best talent for our workforce. Yum! is 
committed to not using forced or compulsory labor. Suppliers are also required to follow this policy. 
We do not view our company operations as has having significant risk for incidents related to not 
following this policy. 
 
Yum! Brands Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy 
Yum! Brands Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy 
Global Code of Conduct 
Supplier Code of Conduct
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum! Brands Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy 
Yum! Brands Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy 
Global Code of Conduct 
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
412-2 Employee training on human rights 
policies or proceduresThe total number of hours devoted to training on issues relating to human rights policies and 
the treatment of individuals was estimated to be 140,000 in the reporting year. This total covers 
employees, franchisees and suppliers. This covers approximately 23% of our full-time employee 
count at the end of the year. 
 
People - 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 17
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryFood - 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 23 
Yum! Brands Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy 
Yum! Brands Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy 
Global Code of Conduct 
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
social criteriaOur first priority, confirmed by stakeholders as part of our materiality assessment, is to maintain 
an industry-leading, safe, high-quality food supply from farm to fork. Our vision is to deliver to 
society “Trust in Every Bite.” To do this, our Food Safety Standards cover areas where key risk factors 
exist, such as employee health and hygiene, product handling, product temperature management, 
cross-contamination and more. Since 2016, Yum! has conducted more than 367,000 restaurant 
food safety audits. In the reporting year, we also assessed 60% of suppliers on our way to assessing 
100% of Tier 1 suppliers annually by 2021. 
 
Food - 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 23 
GRI 415: Political Contributions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryWe believe that it is important to discuss policies that may impact our business operations, 
franchisees, industry and stakeholders. We adhere to all applicable laws that govern our 
interactions with public officials as well as our own Code of Conduct. 
 
Approach - Policies & Positions, pg. 7 
Global Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
415-1 Political Contributions We believe that it is important to openly discuss policies that may impact our business operations, 
franchisees, industry and stakeholders. We adhere to all applicable laws that govern our 
interactions with public officials as well as our own Code of Conduct. Direct political contributions 
and contributions to interest representation made by our PAC (January 1- December 31, 2019) 
totaled $52,200. For detailed information regarding the contributions, please visit the Federal 
Election Commission.
GRI 416: Customer Health & Safety 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryFood, pgs. 18-23
103-2 The management approach and its 
components Food, pgs. 18-23
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Food, pgs. 18-23
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety 
impacts of product and service categoriesOur first priority, confirmed by stakeholders as part of our materiality assessment, is to maintain 
an industry-leading, safe, high-quality food supply from farm to fork. Our vision is to deliver to 
society “Trust in Every Bite.” To do this, our Food Safety Standards cover areas where key risk factors 
exist, such as employee health and hygiene, product handling, product temperature management, 
cross-contamination and more. Since 2016, Yum! has conducted more than 367,000 restaurant 
food safety audits. In the reporting year, we also assessed 60% of suppliers on our way to assessing 
100% of Tier 1 suppliers annually by 2021. 
 
Food - 2019 Performance Summary, pg. 23
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum! Brands is committed to following all laws and providing guests with accurate information. 
Customers rely on that information to make decisions on where to dine as well as to make menu 
selections. Promoting transparency about our food empowers the customer to make personal 
choices. We follow U.S. and international guidelines to avoid marketing to children and are 
committed to our goal of limiting marketing communication to children under 12.103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communicationsIn 2019, we received a reported complaint for alleged non-compliance with advertising regulations. 
No actions have been taken against Yum! or its subsidiaries as a result of this pending complaint. 
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
BoundaryYum! understands that in today’s digital environment, customer and employee privacy is important 
and we are committed to treating personal information with care. We invest significantly in tools, 
systems and people to help keep information secure as threats continue to evolve. 
 
Yum! Brands Privacy Policy 
Global Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its 
components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 
breaches of customer privacy and losses 
of customer dataYum! Brands maintains a program to address potential security and privacy incidents. The program 
includes processes to meet notification or other reporting obligations under applicable local laws.43 42
2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
 2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABOUT THIS REPORT 
We remain committed to disclosing our sustainability progress. This report covers key commitments 
and initiatives that have been announced since our last report was published, in addition to full-year 
sustainability data from January 1–December 31, 2019. Data was gathered from our corporate operations, 
company-owned KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell restaurants and select franchisees. The data do not include 
The Habit Burger Grill, as that acquisition was completed March 18, 2020.  
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. We recognize GRI as the 
most credible standard for reporting on environmental, social and governance issues reflecting the results 
of a materiality assessment. In future years, we intend to align our reporting with the SASB’s sector-specific 
reporting framework and the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)’s guidance for 
reporting on climate risk.
For more information about our citizenship and sustainability work, visit yum.com/citizenship .
Please send comments or questions about this report to citizenship@yum.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities 
Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend all forward-looking 
statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to 
historical or current facts and by the use of forward-looking words such as “expect,” “expectation,” “believe,” 
“anticipate,” “may,” “could,” “intend,” “belief,” “plan,” “estimate,” “target,” “predict,” “likely,” “seek,” 
“project,” “model,” “ongoing,” “will,” “should,” “forecast,” “outlook,” “new store opening goals” or similar 
terminology. These statements are based on and reflect our current expectations, estimates, assumptions 
and/or projections, our perception of historical trends and current conditions, as well as other factors that we 
believe are appropriate and reasonable under the circumstances. Forward-looking statements are neither 
predictions nor guarantees of future events, circumstances or performance and are inherently subject 
to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ 
materially from those indicated by those statements. There can be no assurance that our expectations, 
estimates, assumptions and/or projections, including with respect to the future earnings and performance 
or capital structure of Yum! Brands, will prove to be correct or that any of our expectations, estimates or 
projections will be achieved. 
The forward-looking statements included in this report are only made as of the date of this report, and we 
disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events or 
circumstances.
Food System Contribution to National GHG Emissions Chart Sources
https://www.ers.usda.gov/topics/natural-resources-environment/climate-change.aspx
http://publications.gc.ca/collections/collection_2019/eccc/En81-4-1-2017-eng.pdf
https://www.environment.gov.au/system/files/resources/6686d48f-3f9c-448d-a1b7-7e410fe4f376/files/nggi-quarterly-update-mar-2019.pdf
https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/pdfscache/16817.pdf
https://www.climatelinks.org/sites/default/files/asset/document/2019_USAID_Brazil%20GHG%20Emissions%20Factsheet.pdf
http://www.fao.org/gleam/results/en/
https://forest.jrc.ec.europa.eu/en/activities/lulucf/