Thank you for your interest in the Yum! Brands 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Report. I’m extremely proud 
of the many ways our three iconic brands come together to show we’re a company with a Huge Heart—opening 
doors, growing people and truly caring about the world. 
KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell serve millions of customers in our 41,000 restaurants in 125 countries and territories 
around the world. And I’m equally pleased that each brand has meaningful CSR efforts that positively impact the local communities where our employees, franchisees and customers live and work.  Considering our collective impact, Yum! Brands was the only restaurant company to be named one of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens by Corporate Responsibility Magazine in 2014.  I’m proud of the progress we’re making on our journey to build three global brands people trust and champion, and we are going to get better and more courageous every day at delivering on the high quality , high integrity commitments our consumers and stakeholders care about most in our food, people, communities and environment.
This year we continued on our journey to serve high quality food that’s delicious and nutritious. We also invested 
significantly in all of our people. When it comes to reducing our environmental footprint, we made great strides towards being responsibly green in our restaurants and beyond. Lastly , we have raised $600 million in cash and food donations since 2007 in the fight against global hunger for the United Nations World Food Programme and other hunger relief agencies.
As you learn more about our efforts in this report, hopefully you’ll see that CSR is at the heart of how we are 
growing our brands. I believe people will trust and champion us when our actions and commitments to being a sustainable and responsible organization are clear and consistent and when we’re open and transparent about our progress, challenges and outcomes. Make sure to check out our 2014 Performance Summary for a quick overview . Thank you again for your interest and please feel free to contact us with any questions.
Cheers,
Greg Creed
CEO, Yum! Brands, Inc.BUILDING THREE ICONIC BRANDS PEOPLE TRUST & CHAMPION
Yum! Brands 2014 Corporate Social Responsibilty ReportYum! Brands 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Performance Summary
Reporting annually on our Corporate Social Responsibility performance is a key part of sharing our sustainability journey .  
This summary offers an overview of how we are doing when it comes to creating positive change around our four strategic  
focuses: food, people, community and environment.
OUR CSR COMMITMENTS OUR 2014 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTSSERVING HIGH QUALITY & DELICIOUS FOOD
Nutrition
Be the preferred restaurant of choice for 
consumers seeking a delicious, balanced option by offering more choice, more transparency and 
nutritional improvements to our ingredients.
Food Quality and Safety
Maintain the safest, highest quality food supply and preparation in the industry . 
Ethical Sourcing and Supply
Sourcing the freshest food from an environmentally and socially responsible agriculture supply chain. INVESTING IN PEOPLE
Our Culture
Continue driving how we win together leadership principles every day and strengthening our “Famous Recognition Culture Where Everyone Counts.”
Employer Brand of Choice
Be a magnet for the best talent by articulating a clear employee value proposition and comprehensive employer branding implementation plan to attract, retain and grow our people. 
Building People Capability
Lead the industry with innovative know how building experiences that drive and accelerate high performance in our teams and our restaurants.
Associate Wellbeing
Build wellbeing and energy programs to give our associates and their families tools and programs to stay healthy and enjoy vibrant lives. OUR CSR COMMITMENTS OUR 2014 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
• We continued working towards 
15% of our menu items in each category being at one-third of the Recommended Daily Allowance in every country in which we operate by the end of 2015.
• Enhanced Food Safety Standards to compliment our newly created global Yum! Food Safety Policies.
• Played an active role on the Council to Improve Outbreak Response (CIFOR) Industry Work Group over the past five years, whose guidelines and tools were included in the most recent FDA Food Code update.
• We continued working towards adopting a single poultry welfare audit throughout our system, in addition to constituting audits and policies that align our program for beef and pork. • Yum! Chief People Officer Anne Byerlein named one of Forbes’ Top 10 
Chief Human Resources Officers.
• Named one of the Aon Hewitt Top Companies for Leaders in North America. 
• Implemented an employee engagement survey at the team member level aimed at giving every employee in our global business a voice.  
• Continued growing our Employee Resource Groups to engage, retain and attract talent. 
• Invested significantly in developing our restaurant leaders through our global training program RGM #1.
• In China, more than 25,000 operations team members received over 500,000 hours of training through Whampoa Academy .
• Approximately 800 Taco Bell U.S. Restaurant General Managers completed TheMark program which focuses on personal and professional development.
• A majority of our business markets had programming in place to support having great energy at home and work. Like the 100-day global walking challenge where 43% of our markets participated and tracked more than one billion steps.FOOD PEOPLEWorld Hunger Relief
Mobilize our customers, associates, franchisees 
and their families to alleviate hunger through awareness, volunteerism and fundraising.
Volunteerism
Be the world’s defining volunteer movement engaging employees and franchisees year-round to make an impact in local communities.
Community Engagement
Demonstrate our huge heart by giving back to our local communities through program partnerships, sponsorships and cause-related marketing efforts. 
Harvest
Be a leading prepared food donation program by donating product from our restaurants to food banks and other charitable organizations. COMMUNITY
GIVING BACK TO COMMUNITIES
      Green Buildings
Design and build all new company-owned restaurants to be LEED certifiable by the end of 2015. 
      Energy Efficiency
Reduce energy consumption in company-owned restaurants 15% by the end of 2015.
     Water Conservation
Reduce water consumption in company-owned restaurants 10% by the end of 2015. 
     Supplier Audits
Implement supplier environmental audits by 2015. ENVIRONMENT
BEING RESPONSIBLY GREEN
OUR CSR COMMITMENTS OUR 2014 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS OUR CSR COMMITMENTS OUR 2014 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
      Paper-Based Packaging
Purchase 100% of paper-based packaging with fiber from responsibly managed forests and recycled sources by 2020. 
     Waste Recovery & Recycling
Minimize waste within our stores through increased efforts in oil and corrugate recycling and food donation.• Raised $40 million in cash and food 
donations for the World Food Programme and other hunger relief agencies. That’s equivalent to 160 million meals. 
• Since 2007, we have donated more than $600 million, equivalent to nearly 2.4 billion meals.  
• Awarded 140 grants worth nearly $220,000 to charitable organizations.
• Tracked more than 30,000 employee and franchisee volunteer hours. 
• Yum! Brands Foundation invested nearly $7 million in charities with missions focused on hunger, youth, social services, the arts and diversity .
• The KFC U.S. Foundation launched the new REACH HIGH™ - High School Equivalency Program to help hourly team members and shift supervisors earn a high school credential.
• Pizza Hut’s BOOK IT! program celebrated its 30th birthday . To date, more than 14 million students have participated.  
• On average, we donate more than 10 million pounds of food annually to partner agencies in the United States. 
• Since the program began more than 20 years ago, we have contributed more than 170 million pounds of food, a fair market value of $763.5 million.• On Target – Designed and built more than 20 LEED 
certified buildings across nine countries, making our certification total the second highest among restaurateurs by the end of 2014. 
• On Target – We had a record year resulting in more than 530 million kilowatt hours in savings.
• Since 2009, we have measured a reduction of almost 1.2 million metric tons of CO
2. 
• We surpassed the 14% mark and are moving closer to achieving our 15% goal. 
• Below Target – Accumulated savings resulted in the reduction of over 220 million gallons of water. 
• Over the past nine years we have saved 577 million gallons of water.
• We are only to 37% of the way to our target, so we continue working to find more ways to reach our goal.
• Implemented – Successfully added the capability to all of our markets globally to audit their suppliers.
• Suppliers accessed in five key areas: energy efficiency , water efficiency ,  waste/recycling, pollution reduction, environmental management.
• In Progress – Sought input from World Wildlife Fund to our responsible paper-packaging policy and sourcing program strategies and took action around:
• Phasing out or avoiding unwanted fiber sources.
• Progressively increasing credibly certified and recycled content.
• Establishing robust baselines, internal protocols, measurable regional targets and action plans in sustainable paper-based packaging sourcing.
• On Target - Store waste audits helped us estimate that a large percentage of our back-of-the house waste is currently recycled or donated through our oil recycling, corrugate recycling and Harvest program. Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
About Us
Yum! rand, Inc., aed in Louiville, Kentuck, ha over 41,000 retaurant in more than 125 countrie and territorie. Yum! i
ranked #216 on the Fortune 500 Lit with revenue of over $13 illion and in 2014 wa named among the top 100 Corporate Citizen 
Corporate Reponiilit Magazine. The Compan' retaurant rand – KFC, Pizza Hut  and Taco ell  – are the gloal leader of the
chicken, pizza and Mexican-tle food categorie. Outide the United State, the Yum! rand tem opened over five new retaurant
per da, making it a leader in international retail development.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
History & Culture
Over the pat 17 ear, our ucce ha een driven  our focu on:
uilding leading rand that people trut and champion in emerging market
like China, India, Africa, razil and Ruia,
Driving aggreive, international expanion and uilding trong rand
everwhere,
Dramaticall improving U.S. rand poition, conitenc and return; driving
indutr-leading, long-term hareholder and franchiee value,
And uilding a unique, fun culture led  people who love the retaurant
uine.
Along the wa, we alo roadened our focu eond our retaurant to important
emerging iue of our gloal ociet uch a our impact on people, communitie, food
and the environment.
From the ver eginning, we had a paion to create a compan that would trul e great
and lating. We turned our paion into a roadmap, one we call the Yum! DnatGrowth Model , ecaue dnatie endure and lead through the generation.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Business Model
Greg Creed
Chief xecutive Officer
Yum! rand
“In 2014, we grew full-ear PS 4% to $3.09 per hare, excluding Special Item. Thi wa well elow our 2014 full-ear
target of at leat 20%. Thee reult were heavil kewed  the challenge handed to our igget diviion a we uffered
two highl pulicized upplier incident in two ear in China. However, we know our rand are reilient and continue to
elieve thi etack i temporar. After our firt upplier incident, which negativel impacted 2013, we recovered and
delivered trong reult in the firt half of 2014. Specificall, our China Diviion operating profit increaed 116% and Yum!
PS grew 27% through our firt two quarter, prior to Special Item. We were convinced 2014 would e a ear of at leat
20% PS growth. The Jul Shanghai Hui upplier incident changed all that. However, we are full committed to
achieving at leat 10% PS growth in 2015 and I'm confident we have the people and plan in place to deliver doule-digit
growth going forward”
KFC Corporation, aed in Louiville, Kentuck, i the world' mot popular chicken retaurant chain. KFC pecialize in Original Recipe®,
xtra Crip™, Kentuck Grilled Chicken® and xtra Crip™ Strip, Hot Wing™, Go Cup, Famou owl, Pot Pie, frehl made
chicken andwiche, icuit and home-tle ide item. There are more than 19,400 KFC outlet in 120 countrie and territorie around
the world. KFC Corporation i a uidiar of Yum! rand, Inc., Louiville, Kentuck. (NYS: YUM.) For more information, viit
www.kfc.com. Follow KFC on Faceook  and Twitter .
Pizza Hut, a uidiar of Yum! rand, Inc. (NYS: YUM), i the world’ larget pizza compan with more than 15,600 retaurant in 92
countrie worldwide. In 2014, Pizza Hut wa named the Harri Poll quitrend® Pizza rand of the Year and received the top core in
Cutomer Satifaction among limited-ervice retaurant chain from the American Cutomer Satifaction Index® (ACSI). Pizza Hut egan
57 ear ago in Wichita, Kana, and i the proprietor of the OOK IT!® Program, the longet-running, corporate-upported children’
literac program in America. For more information, viit http://pizzahutnewroom.com.
Taco ell Corp ., a uidiar of Yum! rand, Inc., (NYS: YUM), i the nation' leading Mexican-inpired quick ervice retaurant. Taco
ell erve made to order and cutomizale taco, urrito, and pecialtie uch a the excluive Dorito® Loco Taco, protein-
packed Cantina Power® Menu and lower calorie Freco Menu . The compan encourage cutomer to “Live Má,” oth through it
food and in wa uch a it Feed The eat ® muic program and it nonprofit organization, the Taco ell® Foundation for Teen ™.
Taco ell and it more than 350 franchie organization have almot 6,000 retaurant acro the United State.
For 2014 Financial Highlight, Click Here .
 4/1/2015 Yum! Brands - Defining Global Company that Feeds the World
http://www.yum.com/company/map.asp 1/1
YUM!’S GLOBAL RESTAURANT SYSTEM
Yum! has over 41,000 restaurants in more than 120 countries and territories. Effective the beginning of 2014, the Yum! system includes the China, India, KFC, Pizza Hut and
Taco Bell divisions. The Company’s restaurant brands – KFC®, Pizza Hut® and Taco Bell® – are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza and Mexican-style food categories.
Learn more about the Yum! business by clicking on a country below.
1. Data updated twice a year following our Q2 and Q4 Earnings Releases. Information on this page may contain dated information and should not be relied on as providing accurate or current information.
Refer to Yum’s SEC filings and reports under the “Investor” section of our website for the most current information.
2. Store counts are as of Q2 2014.
3. Store counts exclude East Dawning and Little Sheep units, and units located on international U.S. Military Bases.
4. Licensed units are included in franchise unit counts.
5. “Emerging” versus “Developed” classification based on International Monetary Fund guidelines.
6. Country populations obtained from The World Bank as of 2013.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Our CSR Methodology
In our Corporate Social Reponiilit (CSR) report, we examine the ke area of impact of our gloal uine operation and where we
have the tronget ailit to pla a role.
Our ojective for thi report are to:
1. Reinforce our gloal commitment to CSR
2. Report on our performance to date under our four trategic pillar (food, people,
communit, environment)
3. Where poile, identif our future CSR direction, goal and policie
4. ngage in contructive dialogue with our takeholder
A the Defining Gloal Compan that Feed the World, it i our privilege and honor to improve the
live of thoe we impact. With virant rand that are teeped in innovation, qualit and fun food,
we are excited aout our uine opportunitie a we expand. At the ame time, we undertand
that we have a dut to improve ociet and a reponiilit to e a good environmental teward.
Through thi report, we will engage internal and external takeholder for their perpective on
our CSR effort and impact. Thee dicuion will help hape our action and communication.
Our approach to CSR i dnamic, gloal in focu, et alwa rooted in a People-Firt philooph.
We have worked diligentl to undertand the man CSR opportunitie we have worldwide, and to
develop a trateg and tructure to continuall improve ourelve a we erve the world.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Strategy
Our ailit to make a poitive difference in the live of people throughout the world i
virtuall unlimited, and it tart with a clear focu and commitment to getting etter. We
have choen to leverage our clear trength: our expertie – what we refer to a “know
how” – and our people.
We elieve that our tronget impact and contriution to utainailit lie in the critical
part of our uine—the ucce and diverit of our aociate, feeding people, health
and nutrition, our uppl chain, the environment, and communit engagement and
impact. Thee are the area in which we are concentrating our effort. We are alo
driving takeholder engagement, tematicall involving ke internal and external
takeholder to upport and execute our CSR initiative.
Our trateg center on four ke pillar: People, Food, Communit and nvironment.
Tacticall, we will:
1. Produce an annual CSR report
2. Tranparentl report on our progre with ke takeholder
3. Identif opportunitie for improvement
4. Develop program and trategie that addre and overcome challengeYum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Structure
We've uilt an integrated, executive-level governance tructure and proce to ae,
guide and overee our worldwide CSR activitie. Thi enure conitenc in gloal CSR
tandard and activitie while allowing for local adaptation to fit divere cultural
context and need.
It tart with our leaderhip at the highet level and cacade throughout the entire
uine. CSR activitie are mandated in the partnerhip etween our Gloal
Sutainailit and Pulic Affair team that are led  our Chief Sutainailit Officer
and Vice Preident of Corporate Social Reponiilit. We engage variou internal and
external takeholder to deliver on the CSR commitment outlined in thi report and we
will continue partnering with thee and additional takeholder a we move forward on
our journe.
We are alo committed to evolving our tructure a needed, a well a the wa in which we meaure progre againt our ojective, to
enhance our CSR capailitie and effectivene.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Stakeholders
Our takeholder are central to guiding the important CSR deciion and action we make. That’ wh our focu i to create poitive
change through our CSR action that extend to all of our ke takeholder including emploee, franchiee, upplier, invetor,
cutomer and the local communitie we erve.
Our franchiee are our mot important partner in the implementation of practice, including ourcing and communit impact. Over the
pat 17 ear, we have uilt trong relationhip with them to enale collaoration and partnerhip. Our exiting tructure for engaging
thi important group in the U.S. include:
Retaurant Suppl Chain Solution (RSCS) oard of Director
rand Franchie Aociation/oard of Director
We alo partner with other ke takeholder to gain important perpective in area related to our mot important CSR impact and
continuall hare our progre in the following ke area:
Diverit and Incluion
Health and Nutrition
Suppl Chain Innovation and Management
Animal Welfare
nvironment (e.g., energ and water ue, uilding deign, wate and packaging)
Hunger Relief
Communit ngagement and Volunteerim
Human Right
We continue to explore how we work with all current and future takeholder to et identif and prioritize our CSR effort that create
poitive impact for our uine and ociet alike.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Governance, Public Policy and Government Affairs
Our governance, pulic polic and government affair are managed with a view to the ucce of our uine and fulfilling our oard’
reponiilitie to our hareholder. The oard’ governance practice align management and hareholder interet, and include the
following: independence of the majorit of oard memer; oard diverit; corporate governance principle; executive compenation
program that demontrate pa for performance; tringent ethic and compliance tandard, and having a Worldwide Code of Conduct
and Political Contriution and U.S. Government Advocac Polic. We operate in a complex and dnamic pulic polic environment. We
influence thi environment  conducting advocac effort with policmaker at national, tate and local level, oth in the United State
a well a in our international market.
Chri Campell,
Senior Vice Preident, General Counel & Secretar and Chief Franchie Polic Officer
"A divere range of experience and perpective among our Director enure the ucce of the oard in overeeing our
complex, varied uinee. It alo enhance long-term hareholder value."
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Board of Directors
Our oard of Director i led  Yum! rand xecutive Chairman, David Novak. Among the 13 director currentl on the oard, nine are
independent director (aed on New York Stock xchange rule for director independence). The four non-independent director are
David Novak, xecutive Chairman, Yum! rand, Inc., Greg Creed, Chief xecutive Officer, Yum! rand, Inc., Jing-Shh S. (Sam) Su, Vice
Chairman, Yum! rand, Inc. and Chairman and Chief xecutive Officer, Yum! Retaurant China Diviion, and Michael J. Cavanagh, Co-
Preident and Co-Chief Operating Officer for the Carlle Group. To view detailed profile of our director, pleae viit our weite at
www.um.com/compan/od.ap.
The oard of Director ha etalihed four committee:
Audit Committee
Management Planning and Development Committee
Nominating and Governance Committee
xecutive/Finance Committee
Onl independent director erve on the Audit, Management Planning and Development, and Nominating and Governance Committee
in accordance with our Corporate Governance Principle. The xecutive/Finance Committee include xecutive Chairman David Novak,
along with independent director Thoma C. Nelon, Thoma M. Ran and Roert D. Walter. To view our oard Committee compoition,
pleae viit our weite at www.um.com/invetor/governance/charter.ap.
To enure continued trong performance, the oard ha intituted an annual elf-evaluation proce led  the Nominating and
Governance Committee. Thi aement focue on the oard' contriution to the Compan and emphaize thoe area in which a
etter contriution could e made. In addition, our Audit, Management Planning and Development and Nominating and Governance
Committee conduct imilar elf-evaluation on an annual ai.
oard Diverit
A divere range of experience and perpective among our Director enure the ucce of the oard in overeeing our complex, varied
uinee. When recruiting new director, we look for leader from different ackground that comine a road pectrum of experience
and expertie with a reputation for integrit. For complete election criteria and policie, pleae ee our Corporate GovernancePrinciple .
We're proud of the diverit of our oard. A of thi writing, three women (Mirian M. Graddick-Weir, onnie G. Hill and lane . Stock)
and three minoritie (M. Graddick-Weir, M. Hill, and Jing-Shh S. (Sam) Su) erve on our oard of Director. M. Graddick-Weir i the
xecutive Vice-Preident of Human Reource at Merck & Co., Inc. She ha een a Director ince 2012. M. Hill i Preident of . Hill
nterprie, LLC, a conulting compan. She ha een a Director ince 2003. M. Stock i Group Preident of Kimerl-Clark
International. She ha een a Director ince Januar 2014. Mr. Su, a Taiwanee national and Chinee citizen, erve a Vice Chairman of
the oard, Yum! rand, Inc. and Chairman and Chief xecutive Officer, Yum! Retaurant China Diviion. He ha een a Director ince
2008. The alance of our oard include Michael J. Cavanagh, Greg Creed, David W. Dorman, Maimo Ferragamo, Jonathan S. Linen,
Thoma C. Nelon, David C. Novak, Thoma M. Ran and Roert D. Walter.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Corporate Governance
Adopted in 2001 and amended and retated in 2012, our Corporate Governance Principle of the oard of Director, along with the
Compan' article and law, committee charter and the Worldwide Code of Conduct, provide the framework for Yum! rand, Inc.
governance. The Principle et out guideline to inform all apect of oard operation, including:
oard Memerhip and Director Qualification
Director Independence
oard Performance and Compenation
oard Conduct
oard Committee
Role of the Chairman
Role of the Lead Director
The Principle included a "majorit voting" polic requiring an director who received a greater numer of vote "withheld" from hi or
her election than vote "for" hi or her election to promptl tender hi or her reignation from the oard.
The oard review the Principle and other apect of governance annuall or more often, if necear. The full text of the Corporate
Governance Principle can e found at www.um.com/invetor/governance/principle.ap. Thee Principle are dicued annuall
in our prox tatement .Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Executive Compensation
Yum! rand' executive compenation program, with overight  the Management Planning and Development Committee of the oard,
are deigned to attract and retain highl qualified leader through competitive compenation and enefit program, to reward our
aociate for peronal contriution that grow the uine, and to maximize hareholder return through pa-for-performance
program. Reviewed annuall  the Committee, the program' intent i to:
Reward performance
Pa our executive like owner
Deign pa program that align team and individual performance, cutomer atifaction and compan and hareholder
interet
mphaize long-term incentive compenation
To trengthen the alignment etween management and hareholder interet, the Management Planning and Development Committee
ha adopted formal tock-ownerhip guideline, which et minimum expectation for executive and enior management ownerhip of
Yum! tock. We have created an ownerhip culture in which our officer, executive and enior manager hold Yum! tock well in exce
of the guideline.
Tale detailing total compenation and tock-aed award paid, earned or awarded for fical ear 2014 to our CO, CFO and three other
mot highl compenated executive officer can e found in our 2015 Prox Statement.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Ethics and Compliance
Yum!' ucce i uilt on the integrit and high ethical tandard of our aociate. Our ethic and compliance program, aed on our
Worldwide Code of Conduct, demand the highet ethical tandard in all of our operation around the gloe.
Worldwide Code of Conduct
Yum!' Worldwide Code of Conduct, adopted in 1997, i more than a document–it i the foundation for the wa we conduct ourelve and
do uine throughout the world. It call for the highet tandard of ethical ehavior from our oard memer and our 1.5 million
aociate, and cover a variet of critical iue, including:
Product Qualit and Food Safet
Relationhip with Franchiee
mploee Relation
Relationhip with Cutomer, Supplier and Competitor
Diverit
Gift and ntertainment
Safet and nvironmental Protection
Political and Communit Activitie and Contriution
Sutance Aue
Conflict of Interet
Anti-rier and Corruption
Inider Trading and Proprietar Information
Account, Record Keeping and Dicloure of Financial Information
The Code i pulihed in nglih, Chinee, French, German, Korean, Portuguee, Ruian, Thai and Turkih, and i availale on our
invetor ite .
To help enure compliance, we have developed a comprehenive program aed on continuing compliance training for aove-retaurant
emploee.
Our oard of Director and our mot enior Compan aociate are alo required to complete a conflict of interet quetionnaire annuall
and certif in writing that the have read and undertand the Code of Conduct.
We know that, in an organization, raiing an ethic concern – epeciall aout a uperior – can e difficult. So we have et up a tem for
aociate to raie concern through a afe, anonmou proce. Uing an independent third part, The Network, Inc., we have opened
local ethic hotline in the U.S. and 17 countrie that comprie our major market. Our aociate can ue thee hotline 24 hour a da, 7
da a week to raie a concern anonmoul aout poile Code of Conduct violation or other ethical conflict not covered  the Code
of Conduct. After a call, the independent third part rela the information to our management to invetigate the concern.
The Audit Committee of our oard ha etalihed additional procedure for complaint and concern of aociate regarding accounting
and auditing matter, including the confidential or anonmou umiion of uch complaint or concern. More detail on thee
procedure can e found at www.um.com/invetor/governance/complaint.ap.
We alo maintain a Supplier Code of Conduct to hold all upplier to our high tandard. To learn more aout our Supplier Code of
Conduct, click here.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Government Affairs
Our goal i to educate policmaker aout our uine and the iue that are important to u and our franchiee. In puruit of an
environment where our retaurant, franchiee, aociate, and the communitie we erve can thrive, we focu our pulic polic effort
and governmental partnerhip on a variet of iue including food afet, workplace requirement and practice, health and nutrition,
tax polic and regulation of foodervice operation and practice.
rett Hale,
VP, Pulic Relation 
Government Affair
“It i imperative that we engage polic maker oth dometicall and aroad in a 360 degree dialogue that eek to uild,
change, or reinforce perception of Yum! in the pulic polic arena. Our integrated trateg leverage the work of our
government relation, regulator affair, and corporate ocial reponiilit team to impact the proce in a poitive
wa.”
Aociate enefit
Our aociate are our Compan' mot important reource. In the highl competitive environment in which we operate, we know that
our ucce depend on our ailit to attract and retain a divere, empowered workforce.
We participate in the U.S. Department of Laor' Work Opportunit Tax Credit (WOTC) program. Under thi program, we receive a tax
credit for hiring and training worker who are economicall or phicall diadvantaged. We have provided thouand of firt-time jo
to individual around the countr, man of whom were previoul on pulic aitance, helping them gain valuale jo training and kill
that enale them to continue a productive memer of the workforce. We are proponent of maintaining the WOTC program a part of
the U.S. tax code, and of implifing it to make it more uer-friendl for maller emploer uch a our franchiee.
Health and Nutrition
We have implemented a et of gloal nutrition guideline that define our proactive effort to improve the nutrition profile of the food
we offer, while continuing to provide great tate, value and convenience acro our market. We are alo committed to educating our
cutomer and encouraging them to adopt alanced, health lifetle. We upport policie that limit retriction on conumer choice and
we work with government, indutr aociation and other to promote an environment that foter freedom of choice and innovation.
To reinforce our commitment to health and nutrition, we have partnered with the U.S. government and dozen of leading U.S. food
corporation on the United State Department of Agriculture (USDA) ChooeMPlate Corporate Challenge to help tem the tide of
increaing weight and oeit among America' oung people. A a Communit Partner , we are committed to incorporatingChooeMPlate educational information in our retaurant and online nutrition and marketing material.
Additionall, we have worked with the U.S. Congre and the Oama Adminitration to enact uniform national menu oard guideline
for prepared food ale, providing a conitent wa to educate the pulic aout the nutritional value of the food the eat. In 2015 our U.S.
KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco ell tore will provide calorie information in all of our compan and franchied tore in accordance with the
newl adopted U.S. Food and Drug Adminitration regulation.
Good Government Fund
We maintain a non-partian Political Action Committee (PAC) that upport candidate for pulic office in the U.S. The PAC i funded
through the peronal voluntar contriution of eligile emploee. No corporate fund are contriuted to the PAC.
Our aociate PAC i dedicated to the election of pro-uine candidate at the federal, tate and local level of government. We follow
the general guideline of upporting the preervation and growth of the private enterprie tem, electing candidate on a non-partian
ai, uing uine-related iue a the ke enchmark and emphaizing political race in area where our aociate live and work. In
2014, our PAC contriuted $56,550 to political candidate.
In addition to compling with all U.S. federal and tate regulation, our PAC i periodicall audited  oth Comerica ank and an
internal Yum! audit team. We are pleaed to report that the mot recent internal Yum! audit, conducted in 2013, awarded our PAC a “Well
Controlled” rating. Our PAC alo provide an annual report to our donor regarding it activitie. A detailed liting of the PAC' receipt
and diurement can e found  viiting the Federal lection Commiion' weite at www.fec.gov.
In limited circumtance a permitted  law, our Compan ma contriute corporate fund to tate or local candidate campaign. Thee
contriution are dicloed a legall required. In addition, we voluntaril provide a complete liting of thee contriution and our
contriution policie on our weite at http://um.com/invetor/governance/dicloure.ap.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Trade Memberships
Trade aociation enale u to join together with other companie to addre common interet and iue in the pulic polic arena. Our
trade and memer-aed aociation act a pulic advocate with the pre and elected official, develop reearch on relevant iue and
coordinate joint effort to addre iue and opportunitie within the retaurant, retail and food indutrie. Some of our ignificant
memerhip include:
Academ of Nutrition and Dietetic
American Potato Trade Alliance (APTA)
China Advertiing Aociation (Yum! China)
China Aociation of nterprie with Foreign Invetment (CAFI)
China Chain Store and Franchie Aociation (Yum! China)
China Cuiine Aociation (Yum! China)
China Food Safet Aociation (Yum! China)
Conference for Food Protection (CFP)
Dair Management, Inc. (DMI)
uropean Modern Retaurant Aociation (MRA)
Food Wate Reduction Alliance (FWRA)
International Food Information Council Foundation (IFIC)
International Franchie Aociation (IFA)
International Poultr Council (IPC)
Kentuck Clean Fuel Coalition (KCFC)
Louiville Sutainailit Council
National Chicken Council (NCC)
National Retaurant Aociation (NRA)
Paper Recover Alliance (PRA)
School Nutrition Aociation
U.S. ASAN uine Council (Southeat Aia)
U.S. Chamer of Commerce
U.S. Dair xport Council (USDC)
U.S. Green uilding Council (USGC)
U.S. India uine Council (USIC)
U.S. Poultr & gg xport Council (USAPC)Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
CSR Policies
We elieve in practice that demontrate reponiilit to all of our takeholder including our aociate, cutomer and the
communitie we erve. The elow policie and poition illutrate our commitment to tranparenc, continued effort to realize
improvement and accountailit to drive utainale uine.
Worldwide Code of Conduct
Conflict Mineral Polic
Corporate Governance Principle
Sutainale Sourcing Polic
Palm Oil Polic
Human Right and Laor Polic
Political Contriution and U.S. Government Advocac Polic
Supplier Code of Conduct4/1/2015 Yum! Brands - Defining Global Company that Feeds the World
http://www.yum.com/investors/governance/conduct.asp 1/1
CODE OF CONDUCT
The Company's Worldwide Code of Conduct applies to the Board of Directors and all employees of Yum! Brands, Inc. and its
subsidiaries. The Code sets forth some of the policies and procedures regarding standards of conduct that are required of Yum!
directors and employees. The Code of Conduct is intended to help employees conform to high ethical standards and to protect
Yum! and its employees' reputations.
Every year our Board of Directors and the 2,000 most senior employees in the Company are required to complete a conflicts of
interest questionaire and certify in writing that they have read and understand the Code of Conduct.
Download printable versions of the Code of Conduct in the following languages...
Language PDF Version 
 English Download  (171K)
Chinese (Simplified) Download  (347K)
French Download  (182K)
German Download  (182K)
Korean Download  (642K)
Portuguese (Brazil) Download  (372K)
Russian Download  (658K)
Spanish Download  (181K)
Thai Download  (857K)
Turkish Download  (466K)4/1/2015 Yum! Brands - Defining Global Company that Feeds the World
http://www.yum.com/investors/governance/principles.asp 1/1
GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES
The Corporate Governance Principles of the Board of Directors, along with the Company's articles and bylaws, committee
charters and the World Wide Code of Conduct, provide the framework for Yum! Brands, Inc. governance. These principles
embody the principles by which our Board has been operating for many years.
The Board reviews these principles and other aspects of governance annually or more often if necessary.
Download printable versions of the
Corporate Governance Principles (Last updated 8/27/12)
Adobe PDF version 
 (83K)
Word document  
 (58K)Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Environment Policies
Palm Oil Polic
Yum! i till committed to implementing it gloal nutritional polic that include removal of palm oil a cooking oil in retaurant 
2017. In extenuating circumtance and  exception, market that will not meet our nutrition polic timeline will have a plan in place to
ource 100% utainale palm oil  the end of 2017.
Our goal i to ource 100% of our palm oil from reponile and utainale ource  the end of 2017. We will alo give preference to upplier that
are RSPO certified. In addition, we will ource palm oil onl from upplier whoe operation meet the following principle:
No development on High Conervation Value (HCV) landcape or High Caron Stock (HCS) foret.  While the HCS methodolog i
eing refined  field teting and cience review, new planting hould onl e etalihed in low caron tock area.  
No development on peatland regardle of depth, and ue of et management practice for exiting plantation on peat.
Compliance with countr law and regulation and our upplier code of conduct.
Prevention and reolution of ocial and/or land conflict conitent with the principle of free prior and informed conent.
Traceailit to the extraction mill and validation of freh fruit unche.
Through the Yum! Gloal Supplier Code of Conduct  and our Human and Laor Right Polic  we are committed to the repect and
protection of human right including not emploing underage children or forced laorer and prohiiting phical punihment or aue.
We will continue to work with our upplier gloall to update data and report on our progre in fulfilling our palm oil commitment
annuall in the Yum! CSR Report.
Sutainale Sourcing Polic
Yum! i committed to making utainale packaging a priorit. In upport of thi commitment, we have developed the following
Sutainale Sourcing Principle:
1. Yum! will not knowingl u paper-aed packaging product that were made with fier that come from illegal or the following unwanted
ource:
a. Wood harveted from foret that have een converted to plantation or non-foret ue
. Wood from high conervation value foret, unle thoe foret are credil certified
c. Wood where the ource foret and pecie are unknown
d. Wood harveted in a manner that violate human right
e. Wood harveted that violate local or international law
2. We will give preference to upplier who provide paper-packaging certified  a third-part, which meet the mot rigorou foret
management tandard. Currentl the Foret Stewardhip Council (FSC) tandard i conidered the mot rigorou foret certification 
leading conervation organization. However, we mut manage thi apiration in the context of technical requirement, uneven uppl, and
other uine and regulator conideration. Therefore we alo recognize certification from other national certification endored  the
Programme for the ndorement of Foretr Certification (PFC) and the Sutainale Foretr Initiative (SFI), provided the fier avoid the
unwanted ource lited aove.
3. Yum! i committed to Sutainale Packaging  increaing the amount of reccled content, a permitted  regulator and technical
contraint, acro our gloal tem. Thi i done within packaging content regulation to enure food afet, a well a withinperformance criteria to retain functionalit. Though limited availailit of uitale reccled fier retrict our acce to the uppl of thee
material in ome geographical area, we will work to leverage utainale practice into all of our wrapper, napkin, and container
worldwide.
4. To how compliance with thi ourcing polic, upplier hould utantiate their claim that fier ued to produce the paper-packaging
were legall harveted and traded and that the do not come from unwanted ource a outlined aove.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Human and Labor Rights Policy at Yum! Brands
Yum! rand i committed to maintaining a work environment that repect and
upport human right for all of our emploee around the world. We will not emplo
underage children or forced laorer and we prohiit phical punihment or aue. We
repect the right of all emploee to aociate or not to aociate with an group, a
permitted  applicale law and regulation. We compl with all local laor law in
ever market where we operate. We promote, protect and help enure the equal
enjoment of human right  all peron, including thoe with diailitie, minoritie
and women. We have and will continue to partner with variou takeholder to collect
input and help guide our human right effort.
thic and Compliance
Yum! rand’ ucce i uilt on the integrit and high ethical tandard of our aociate. Our ethic and compliance program, aed on
our Worldwide Code of Conduct, demand the highet ethical tandard in all of our operation around the gloe.
Worldwide Code of Conduct
Yum!’ Worldwide “Code of Conduct” i more than a document – it i the foundation for the wa we conduct ourelve and do uine
throughout the world. It call for the highet tandard of ethical ehavior from our oard memer, executive and 1.5 million
aociate. The Code of Conduct et forth the policie and procedure regarding tandard of conduct that are required of Yum! director
and emploee. The Code of Conduct i intended to help emploee conform to high ethical tandard and to protect Yum! and it
emploee' reputation.
The Code i pulihed in nglih, Chinee, French, German, Korean, Portuguee, Ruian, Spanih, Thai and Turkih. It can e found at
www.um.com/invetor/governance/conduct.ap.
mploee Relation
Yum! recognize that one of it greatet trength lie in the talent and ailit of it emploee. mploee are expected to hold
themelve accountale to the highet profeional tandard, with mutual repect eing the ai of all profeional relationhip.
Human reource goal have een etalihed to guide the Compan activitie in emploee relation. It i the Compan’ polic:
to deal fairl with emploee;
to provide equal opportunit for all in recruiting, hiring, developing, promoting and compenating without regard to race,
religion, color, age, gender, diailit, genetic information, militar or veteran tatu, exual orientation, gender, gender
identit and/or expreion, citizenhip, national origin, or other legall protected tatu;
to maintain a profeional, afe and dicrimination-free work environment;
to recognize and compenate emploee aed on their performance; and
to provide a competitive arra of enefit.
Sexual, racial, ethnic, religiou or an other tpe of harament ha no place in the Yum! work environment. Racial, ethnic and religiou
harament include uch conduct a lur, joke, intimidation or an other veral or phical attack upon a peron ecaue of race,
religion or national origin.Supplier Code of Conduct
Yum! rand i committed to conducting it uine in an ethical, legal and ociall reponile manner. To encourage compliance with
all legal requirement and ethical uine practice  Yum! rand upplier and ucontractor, Yum! ha etalihed it’ Supplier
Code of Conduct (the “Code”) for Yum!’ US upplier (“Supplier”).
The Yum! Supplier Code of Conduct et forth our expectation and minimum tandard for all Supplier and ucontractor in our US
market. The code addree working hour and condition, non-dicrimination, child laor and forced or indentured laor. We require
Supplier to conduct audit and inpection to verif compliance with the code. In addition, we reerve the right to conduct unannounced
aement, audit and inpection of Supplier facilitie. Violation lead to diciplinar action, including termination of the Supplier
relationhip for repeated violation or noncompliance.
Compliance with Law and Regulation
Supplier are required to aide  all applicale law, code or regulation including, ut not limited to, an local, tate or federal law
regarding wage and enefit, workmen’ compenation, working hour, equal opportunit, worker and product afet, and conflict
mineral. Yum! alo expect that Supplier will conform their practice to the pulihed tandard for their indutr.
mploment Practice
Working Hour & Condition: In compliance with applicale law, regulation, code and indutr tandard, Supplier are expected to
enure that their emploee have afe and health working condition and reaonale dail and weekl work chedule. mploee
hould not e required to work more than the numer of hour allowed for regular and overtime work period under applicale local,
tate and federal law.
Non-Dicrimination: Supplier hould implement a polic to effectuate all applicale local and federal law prohiiting dicrimination in
hiring and emploment on the ground of race, color, religion, ex, age, phical diailit, national origin, creed or an other ai
prohiited  law.
Child Laor: Supplier hould not ue worker under the legal age for emploment for the tpe of work eing performed in an facilit in
which the Supplier i doing work for Yum!. In no event hould Supplier ue emploee ounger than 14 ear of age.
Forced and Indentured Laor: In accordance with applicale law, no Supplier hould perform work or produce good for Yum uing laor
under an form of indentured ervitude, nor hould threat of violence, phical punihment, confinement, or other form of phical,
exual, pchological, or veral harament or aue e ued a a method of dicipline or control.
Notification to mploee: To the extent required  law, Supplier hould etalih compan-wide policie implementing the tandard
outlined in thi Code and pot notice of thoe policie for their emploee. The notice hould e in all language necear to full
communicate the polic to it emploee.
Audit and Inpection
ach Supplier hould conduct audit and inpection to inure their compliance with thi Code and applicale legal and contractual
tandard. In addition to an contractual right of Yum! or Retaurant Suppl Chain Solution, LLC (RSCS), the Supplier’ failure to
oerve the Code ma uject them to diciplinar action, which could include termination of the Supplier relationhip. The uine
relationhip with Yum! and RSCS i trengthened upon full and complete compliance with the Code and the Supplier’ agreement with
Yum! and RSCS.
ApplicationThe Code i a general tatement of Yum!’ expectation with repect to it Supplier. The Code hould not e read in lieu of ut in addition
to the Supplier’ oligation a et out in an agreement etween Yum! or RSCS and the Supplier. In the event of a conflict etween the
Code and an applicale agreement, the agreement hall control.
NOT: Retaurant Suppl Chain Solution, LLC i the uppl chain purchaing co-op for U.S. compan-owned and mot franchied KFC,
Pizza Hut and Taco ell retaurant.4/1/2015 Yum! Brands - Defining Global Company that Feeds the World
http://www.yum.com/investors/governance/disclosure.asp 1/1
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND U.S. GOVERNMENT ADVOCACY POLICY
Download printable versions of the
Political Contributions Policy (Last updated 8/20/12)
Adobe PDF version  
 (61K)
Word document  
 (37K)
 
Download printable versions of the
2013 Corporate Contributions & Expenditures
Adobe PDF version 
 (80K)
Word document  
 (22K)
Download printable versions of the
2012 Corporate Contributions & Expenditures
Adobe PDF version  
 (50K)
Word document  
 (24K)
Download printable versions of the
2011 Corporate Contributions & Expenditures
Adobe PDF version  
 (105K)
Word document  
 (85K)4/1/2015 Yum! Brands - Defining Global Company that Feeds the World
http://www.yum.com/investors/governance/supplierconduct.asp 1/1
SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT
YUM! Brands, Inc. ("Yum") is committed to conducting its business in an ethical, legal and socially responsible manner. To
encourage compliance with all legal requirements and ethical business practices, Yum has established this Supplier Code of
Conduct (the "Code") for Yum's U.S. suppliers ("Suppliers").
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
Suppliers are required to abide by all applicable laws, codes or regulations including, but not limited to, any local, state or
federal laws regarding wages and benefits, workmen's compensation, working hours, equal opportunity, worker and product
safety. Yum also expects that Suppliers will conform their practices to the published standards for their industry.
Employment Practices
Working Hours & Conditions: In compliance with applicable laws, regulations, codes and industry standards, Suppliers are
expected to ensure that their employees have safe and healthy working conditions and reasonable daily and weekly work
schedules. Employees should not be required to work more than the number of hours allowed for regular and overtime work
periods under applicable local, state and federal law.
Non-Discrimination: Suppliers should implement a policy to effectuate all applicable local and federal laws prohibiting
discrimination in hiring and employment on the grounds of race, color, religion, sex, age, physical disability, national origin,
creed or any other basis prohibited by law.
Child Labor: Suppliers should not use workers under the legal age for employment for the type of work being performed in any
facility in which the Supplier is doing work for Yum. In no event should Suppliers use employees younger than 14 years of age.
Forced and Indentured Labor: In accordance with applicable law, no Supplier should perform work or produce goods for Yum
using labor under any form of indentured servitude, nor should threats of violence, physical punishment, confinement, or other
form of physical, sexual, psychological, or verbal harassment or abuse be used as a method of discipline or control.
Notification to Employees: To the extent required by law, Suppliers should establish company-wide policies implementing the
standards outlined in this Code and post notices of those policies for their employees. The notices should be in all languages
necessary to fully communicate the policy to its employees.
Audits and Inspections
Each Supplier should conduct audits and inspections to insure their compliance with this Code and applicable legal and
contractual standards. In addition to any contractual rights of Yum or Unified Foodservice Purchasing Co-op, LLC ("UFPC"), the
Supplier's failure to observe the Code may subject them to disciplinary action, which could include termination of the Supplier
relationship. The business relationship with Yum and UFPC is strengthened upon full and complete compliance with the Code
and the Supplier's agreements with Yum and UFPC.
Application
The Code is a general statement of Yum's expectations with respect to its Suppliers. The Code should not be read in lieu of but
in addition to the Supplier's obligations as set out in any agreements between Yum or UFPC and the Supplier. In the event of a
conflict between the Code and an applicable agreement, the agreement shall control.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Recognition & Rankings
We are intentional aout incorporating utainailit into our wa of doing uine and a a reult we have received recognition for our
effort.
Aon Hewitt Top Companie for Leader in North America
In 2014, Yum! wa named one of the Aon Hewitt Top Companie for Leader® in North America for it unique and comprehenive
leaderhip development program and practice. Conducted ince 2001, the Aon Hewitt Top Companie for Leader tud i an anali of
talent management and leaderhip practice of organization around the world. Viit www.aon.com/topcompanie-winner for the
full lit of Aon Hewitt Top Companie for Leader.
Caron Dicloure Project
We recognize that telling our tor and reporting progre to takeholder and potential invetor in a tranparent wa i critical to eing
a good corporate citizen. ecaue of thi, Yum! ha participated in the Caron Dicloure Project (CDP) for the pat four ear. The project
examine how well companie are reducing their caron footprint, which ha a long-term impact on our environment. The report allow
potential invetor and hareholder to view the detail of our umiion. Thi pulic tatu, comined with an increae in our core for
the third traight ear in a row, i a trong mol of our commitment to tranparenc and the environment.
Yum! ha participated in CDP (Caron Dicloure Project) reporting ince 2010 and we are proud to tate that in the
recentl releaed 2014 report, Yum! received a 95/.
To view the 2014 full report, click here.
CR 100 : et Corporate Citizenhip
Corporate Reponiilit Magazine named Yum! one of the ear' top pulic companie in term of commitment to corporate ocial
reponiilit. Yum! i the onl retaurant compan that made the 2014 lit and claimed the 84  pot, a 13-poition increae from 2013. To
view the full lit, click here.
Fore’ Top 10 Chief Human Reource Officer
Yum! Chief People Officer Anne erlein wa named one of Fore’ Top 10 Chief Human Reource Officer (CHRO). The Top 10 CHRO lit
wa developed  Mike Matt, a Fore contriutor, author and leaderhip expert and advior to Fortune 500 CO and oard. Read
Matt’ full article here.
Human Right Campaign Corporate qualit Index
Yum! wa included in the Human Right Campaign Foundation’ 2015 Corporate qualit Index, the national enchmarking tool on
corporate policie and practice pertinent to leian, ga, iexual and trangender emploee. Read the full report here .thNewweek Green Ranking
Yum! wa named to the 2014 Newweek Green Ranking, which rank the world' larget companie on corporate utainailit and
environmental impact. To view the full ranking, click hereYum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Yum! CSR in the News
Read the latet Yum! rand CSR new from around the world.
Yum! rand’ World Hunger Relief ffort with Gloal Spokeperon Chritina Aguilera Named Top Caue-Related Campaign  Two Pretigiou Communication
Organization
Poted on Tue, 24 Mar 2015 15:45
World Hunger Relief ffort Raie $600 Million for United Nation World Food Programme and Other Hunger Relief Agencie Since
Program Inception Yum! rand’ World Hunger Relief effort i the world’ larget private ector hunger relief initiative, panning more
than 125 countrie, over 41,000 KFC,...
Continue Reading Article »
KFC and Pizza Hut Hondura Named Platinum Huge Heart Champion
Poted on Fri, 20 Mar 2015 14:45
Comida and local food donor have een upporting Cononlaca ince 2012, and have made five food donation totaling more than
$70,000. Volunteer have pent 2,600 hour per ear upporting thi project, which include a even hour drive from the torage facilit
to the remote communit of jut 60...
Continue Reading Article »
Chief Pulic Affair Officer Jonathan lum Share Yum!’ Journe to ecome the Defining Gloal Compan that Feed the World
Poted on Mon, 16 Mar 2015 15:45
We recentl announced the impact of our 2014 World Hunger Relief and Volunteer for Hope campaign. Jonathan lum, Yum! rand
Chief Pulic Affair and Gloal Nutrition Officer, hare more on how we are delivering on our commitment to ecome the Defining
Gloal Compan that Feed the World. World ...
Continue Reading Article »
Yum! rand Recognize ‘Volunteer For Hope’ Acro The Gloe
Poted on Fri, 13 Mar 2015 10:00
Volunteer for Hope Program Award Nearl $500,000 USD in Grant to Qualifing Charitale Organization Worldwide Since 2012 Yum!
rand’ Volunteer for Hope program, now in it third ear, encourage the Compan’ 1.5 million aociate and franchiee to give ack
to the communitie where the liv...
Continue Reading Article »
KFC South Africa Share Random Act of Kindne
Poted on Thu, 12 Mar 2015 13:10KFC’ CSR’ initiative, Add Hope, identified three familie in Johanneurg who were in need of extenive upport, and hared a plan to
make their live eaier  providing a helping hand of kindne to make a difference at their home and for their famil. A part of the
ongoing initiative to prov...
Continue Reading Article »
Yum! India Implement Leaderhip Development Program for Women
Poted on Wed, 11 Mar 2015 10:00
Inveting in talent and uilding people capailit i an integral part of the Yum! culture; we are intentional aout development of internal
talent. Taking thi intent forward, Yum! India recentl launched a leaderhip development program in Feruar called Diamond in the
Making. There are 27 wome...
Continue Reading Article »
KFC to Sell Coffee Cup in U.K. That' Good nough to at
Poted on Wed, 04 Mar 2015 12:15
: GAIL ROSNLUM at the Star Triune The American food chain ha announced plan to introduce Seattle’ et Coffee to it fried-
chicken retaurant throughout ngland. KFC win even more point for a mahing olution that allow our friend acro the pond to
hide evidence of their potential c...
Continue Reading Article »
Yum! Retaurant India Announce It Swachh SwaYUM Communit Campaign
Poted on Tue, 03 Mar 2015 12:05
Commenting on the initiative Niren Chaudhar, Preident, Yum! Retaurant India aid, “At Yum! India, our miion i Growth with a
‘ig’ Heart ecaue we want to grow our uine, our people and the communitie that we are a part of. The Swachh SwaYUM campaign
i an initiative to contriute and g...
Continue Reading Article »
Pizza Hut® Tap OOK IT!® Literac Program Alumni For Volunteerim Opportunit In Celeration Of National Reading Month
Poted on Mon, 02 Mar 2015 17:00
OOK IT! Program calling on alum to read 20 minute to kid during National Reading Month; Compan Still Accepting ntrie for $30K
College Plan for Student Currentl nrolled in OOK IT! Pizza Hut kicked off a 30th irthda celeration for the Pizza Hut OOK IT!
Program in Octoer, 2014,  int...
Continue Reading Article »
KFC’ Add Hope Support 1753 Children Dail Through Africa Food for Thought
Poted on Tue, 24 Fe 2015 10:30
Continue reading the original article on Media Update > http://it.l/1Dkc0p Tweet me: .@KFC’ #AddHope upport 1753 children dail
through Africa Food for Thought http://it.l/1Dkc0p via @MediaUpdate #CSR KYWORDS: Philanthrop, uine & Trade, KFC, Yum!
rand, cr, Add HopeContinue Reading Article »
2014 Yum! rand World Hunger Relief Recap - $40 Million Raied for WFP Other Hunger Relief Agencie
Poted on Tue, 17 Fe 2015 15:30
The 2014 campaign raied a record-reaking $40 million in overall cah and food donation for WFP and other. Since 2007, World
Hunger Relief ha raied $600 million in cah and food donation in the fight againt gloal hunger. See Yum! rand' announcement for
more information: http://3l.me/mwq...
Continue Reading Article »
Yum! rand’ World Hunger Relief ffort Raie $600 Million for United Nation World Food Programme and Other Hunger Relief Agencie Since Program
Inception in 2007
Poted on Tue, 17 Fe 2015 15:30
Yum! rand’ World Hunger Relief effort i the world’ larget private ector hunger relief initiative, panning more than 125 countrie,
over 41,000 KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco ell retaurant and 1.5 million aociate. The initiative egan in 2007 in an effort to raie
awarene, volunteerim and ...
Continue Reading Article »
Pizza Hut Donate to the Children' Miracle Network
Poted on Mon, 16 Fe 2015 10:10
Continue reading the original article on Yourerie.com Tweet me: .@PizzaHut Donate to the @cmnhopital http://it.l/1L0ngCG via
@JT24FOX66 KYWORDS: Philanthrop, uine & Trade, Yum! rand, cr, pizza hut, children' miracle network, Your erie
Continue Reading Article »
Yum! rand’ Chief People Officer Anne erlein Named One of Fore’ Top 10 Chief Human Reource Officer
Poted on Thu, 12 Fe 2015 16:25
Yum! rand, one of the world’ larget retaurant companie with more than 41,000 KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco ell retaurant in over 125
countrie and territorie, announced toda that Chief People Officer Anne erlein ha een named one of Fore’ Top 10 Chief Human
Reource Officer (CHRO). The...
Continue Reading Article »
Pizza Hut Introduce 100% Gluten-Free Pizza
Poted on Thu, 29 Jan 2015 17:40
 Nanc Chen Thankfull, Pizza Hut ha hopped on the gluten-free train, jut in time for the Superowl. On Januar 26, the egan
offering gluten-free pizza at 2,400 of their 6,300 dometic location. Thi i in partnerhip with the world’ larget gluten-free
compan Udi’, which offer a range ...
Continue Reading Article »
Meet Greg CreedPoted on Tue, 06 Jan 2015 12:20
VISION:“We want to uild three gloal iconic rand that people trut and champion. We’re going to get there  having ver clear rand
truth, ver clear rand peronalitie and ver clear filter through which we make all of our deciion. To reach our detination, we’re
going to make our rand...
Continue Reading Article »
Yum! Retaurant India Receive National Award for mpowerment of Peron with Diailitie
Poted on Mon, 22 Dec 2014 15:25
Commenting on the recognition, Niren Chaudhar, Preident, Yum! Retaurant India aid, “We are honored to e conferred with thi
award which i tetimon of our miion of ‘growth with a ig heart.’ Since it inception in 2008, thi program aim at creating an equal
opportunit workplace for our ...
Continue Reading Article »
KFC Look to Fight Hunger with #FillUpForGood Campaign
Poted on Mon, 15 Dec 2014 11:40
Continue reading the original article on QSR > http://it.l/1uJ2gaX Tweet me: .@KFC Look to Fight Hunger with #FillUpForGood
Campaign http://it.l/1uJ2gaX via @QSRmagazine KYWORDS: Philanthrop, uine & Trade, KFC, QSR Magazine, cr, communit,
#fillupforgood, Hunger, hunger relief
Continue Reading Article »
KFC’ Add Hope roaden Charit Campaign
Poted on Tue, 02 Dec 2014 16:00
 Pauline Dikuelo arlier thi ear, KFC extended it programme to Kgodiong, a nurer chool in Kane. Kgodiong receive monthl
grocerie to feed their tudent who are mainl children aged two and half to ix ear of age. Thi wa revealed lat week when one of the
eneficiarie Kgodiong C...
Continue Reading Article »
Yum! Supplier, Tronex International, Recognized A 2014 Supplier Of The Year
Poted on Mon, 01 Dec 2014 11:30
Tronex i a leading example of divere upplier adding value to the Yum! tem, which i part of the larger commitment to Diverit &
Incluion. For more than a decade, Tronex ha een a prime upplier of dipoale glove to KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco ell. Having a trong
partnerhip with a l...
Continue Reading Article »Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Our Food
We are paionate aout erving deliciou food that live up to the trut our cutomer place in u and meet the highet afet and
qualit tandard in ever apect of our uine – from ourcing and procurement to our food preparation and deliver.
We will deliver on our commitment  focuing on thee ke area:
Choice, Tranparenc and Improvement in Nutrition
Food Safet and Qualit
thical Sourcing and SupplYum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Nutrition
Goal: e the preferred retaurant of choice for conumer eeking a deliciou, alanced option  offering more choice, more tranparenc and nutritional
improvement to our ingredient.
At Yum!, we are focued on improving the nutritional attriute of our menu, promoting phical
activit program and alwa providing great tating food. The gloal deate regarding health and
nutrition and the role of quick ervice retaurant ha highlighted man challenge. We are
committed to eing a productive part of thi converation and to helping identif olution.
uilding on our commitment to improving nutrition, Yum! appointed Jonathan lum a Chief Gloal
Nutrition Officer in earl 2012. He report directl to the Chief xecutive Officer and i driving
trateg for nutritional improvement acro all of Yum! rand. lum i leading a gloal team of
nutritionit in developing gloal guideline and ultimatel elevating the nutritional qualit of our food.
 Jonathan lum,
Chief Gloal
Nutrition Officer
“We are reall proud of all of the food that we offer. We elieve that all of our food can e part of a alanced lifetle if
eaten in moderation and alanced with exercie. We are alo making great progre on our nutrition trateg focuing on
three main pillar—offering more choice, more tranparenc and making more nutritional improvement to our
ingredient.”Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Global Guidelines
We elieve we can have the greatet impact in advancing our health and nutrition
platform throughout our tem and the indutr with action-oriented change.
Yum!’ Chief Gloal Nutrition Officer and Yum!’ Gloal Corporate Nutritionit are
working with all of our diviion to drive nutrition trateg and etalih goal for
nutritional improvement. A a reult of thi leaderhip, we have implemented an
updated nutrition trateg focued on three pillar:
more choice for conumer
more tranparenc aout product nutrition
more nutritional improvement in our ingredient
ach diviion ha developed pecific nutrition plan and accountailitie which are uject to quarterl review  enior management.
Continuou progre in odium reduction i an area of particular emphai.
We have adopted an overarching goal to enure each of our rand will offer deliciou meal option that meet one-third of
the Recommended Dail Allowance (RDA) etalihed for the countrie in which we do uine (or one-third of the
World Health Organization RDA if a countr ha not etalihed RDA), triving for 15% of meal option  2015 and 20%
 2020.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Progress & Future Plans
We liten to the voice of the cutomer and ecaue the are looking for more choice and variet in the food we erve, we continue to
expand our menu choice in all of our retaurant acro all of our rand. A we expand our menu, improving nutritional value while
maintaining the great tate of our food i alo important to u. alanced choice offering, eliminating tran fat, reducing odium and
lowering calorie and fat are ome of our ke area of focu. We alo trive to e tranparent aout the ingredient and nutrient value in
our food.
 Regena Gerth, R.D.N., L.D. 
Yum! Corporate Nutritionit
“A the world’ larget retaurant compan, it i our reponiilit to make ure that we have alanced meal for people
who are intereted in acceing lower fat, lower calorie option and that the have information availale to make
informed purchae deciion. Our team around the world are working hard ever da to enure we live up to thi
reponiilit.”
At KFC we are proud of the improvement we have made to our high qualit food and remain committed to improving the overall
nutritional makeup of our product. We will continue providing conumer with great tating product that meet their dietar need.
Pizza Hut offer more than two illion different topping comination providing an
arra of topping including freh vegetale and lean meat. The rand i committed to
continuall improving the nutritional profile of our product.
Taco ell ha etalihed nutritional guideline for oth exiting menu item and new
product development. Thee guideline are a holitic approach to nutrition which mirror
the United State Department of Agriculture’ (USDA) Dietar Guideline acro multiple
nutrient. We aim to improve menu item nutrient profile and offer option that allow
alanced choice while preerving product integrit, ditinction, appeal and tate that
our conumer demand.
In thi ection we are pleaed to hare our progre and future plan for delivering on our commitment to provide more choice, more
tranparenc and more nutritional improvement acro our rand, a well a plan for future progre to improve the formulation of our
product.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Choice
U.S.
KFC introduced Kentuck Grilled Chicken (KGC) in 2009, which wa one of the mot
ucceful product introduction in the rand' hitor. KGC i a great option for
conumer who love the flavor of KFC, ut are looking for product that are lower in
calorie. It' marinated, then eaoned with KFC' famou ecret her and pice and
low grilled to juic perfection. KGC ha etween 80 and 220 calorie, 4-10 gram of fat
and 1-3 gram of aturated fat depending upon the piece.
KFC continue to offer a variet of ide to alance an meal including green ean, mahed potatoe and grav, corn and cole law, each
having le than 10 gram of fat per erving.
KFC introduced Kid Meal with plent of meal option under 300 calorie. For example, a Kid Meal including a Kentuck Grilled Chicken
drumtick, green ean, GoGo queeZ™appleauce and Capri Sun  Roarin’ Water ha 205 calorie.
With more than two illion different topping comination, Pizza Hut’ pizza i one of the mot cutomizale product on the planet. For
example, ordering a Thin 'N Crip  pizza with le cheee and topping that are lower in fat (lean meat uch a chicken or ham and
fruit/vegetale), can mean conumer are enjoing a great tating pizza with up to 25 percent le fat than the regular Thin 'N
Crip pizza. Cutomization i made imple through the “Create Your Own” ordering feature at PizzaHut.com and throughout all of our
ordering option.
New to Pizza Hut’ menu are Skinn Slice and Gluten Free Pizza. Skinn Slice Pizza are deliciou pizza made with marter proportion,
o ou get the ame great flavor, with fewer calorie per lice. Skinn Slice come in five deliciou recipe that are each onl 250 calorie
or le per lice. Or, ou can create our own Skinn Slice Pizza with elect topping for 300 calorie or le per lice.
Pizza Hut now offer cheee and pepperoni Gluten Free Pizza in elect location throughout the U.S. Thee pizza are made with Udi’
gluten free crut that i prepared following a trict preparation proce certified  the leading gluten free certification program, the
Gluten Intolerance Group (GIG).
Meeting the USDA’ National School Lunch Program and All Food Sold in School nutrition tandard, Pizza Hut offer kid-approved
pizza made of 51 percent whole wheat crut, lite mozzarella cheee, and reduced fat and odium pepperoni.
Real and freh ingredient are important to Pizza Hut. That’ wh we offer an arra of topping including freh vegetale like green
pepper and muhroom, naturall-preerved Italian auage, 100 percent white meat chicken, and 100 percent real eef, pork, and ham.
Further, Pizza Hut’ Pan, Thin 'N Crip , Hand-Toed Stle, and Stuffed Crut pizza contain:Zero gram of artificial tran fat
No high fructoe corn rup
No Monoodium Glutamate (MSG)
No artificial color/de
Mot item on Taco ell’ menu can e ordered at an retaurant or through moile ordering  requeting it to e prepared “Freco
Stle.” Thi lower in calorie and fat option mean our frehl prepared pico de gallo i utituted for an mao-aed auce, guacamole,
reduced-fat our cream and cheee. In fact, our Freco Menu ha even ignature Freco item that are each under 350 calorie and 10®
®
®
®
®gram of fat. For example, a Freco Grilled Steak Soft Taco contain 150 calorie and 4.5 total fat gram veru 200 calorie and 10 total fat
gram in the traditional product.
In 2014, Taco ell launched Cantina Power– a new menu that comine high protein and ig flavor. It feature urrito and owl packed
with lean protein and nutrient-rich produce, with more than 20 gram of protein all under 500 calorie or le. ecaue our cutomer
want the claic Taco ell flavor the love, we alo include real cheddar cheee, reduced-fat our cream, guacamole and pico de gallo.
Taco ell i the firt QSR retaurant to offer American Vegetarian Aociation (AVA) certified vegetarian food item, including ean
urrito, lack ean & Rice urrito, Cheee Queadilla, Cheee Roll-Up, and for reakfat, the A.M. Grilled Taco with gg and Cheee.
International
At KFC UK, we continue to explore  ‘etter for ou’ and 'lighten up' option a part of our
work to reduce calorie, alt and fat and add healthier choice to our menu. Thee
include Corn on the Co, Salad and Q ean, a well a drink uch a Tropicana
Orange Juice, Copella Apple Juice, Low Sugar Fruit Shoot, diet oft drink, ottled water,
Innocent Fruit Tue and Munch unch Yogurt. 
                                 
In Septemer, KFC UK launched a new line of low cooked pulled chicken product
which include the Ultimate urger, Chicken Twiter Wrap and lower calorie Lil’ Wrap,
and provide cutomer with a greater choice acro the KFC menu. A lend of white
reat and dark meat low cooked in a auce and tumled in a dr pice ru offer a non-
fried option for cutomer with the Pulled Chicken Twiter at 440 kcal and the Lil Wrap at 240 kcal.
KFC German ha three grilled product availale: Grilled KFC Gourmet Chicken, Grilled Chicken Salad and Yumm Twiter. Thee
lighter menu option are diplaed on dedicated pecial green menu oard pace. To give our cutomer the opportunit to make a
alanced choice we promote changing from frie to healthier ide option (corn on the co, mahed potatoe or colelaw).
KFC France launched a new oven cooked andwich in 2013 called the razer Parmean which offer a more alanced choice to cutomer.
In Decemer 2013, KFC Thailand launched Foiliciou, chicken on the one oven cooked in foil to preerve the flavor and juicine of the
chicken. Cutomer atifaction and product qualit were ver high.
At KFC Autralia, we are paionate aout great tating food and are continuall invetigating how we can improve product and provide
roader menu choice. We have een on a journe to improve alanced food choice for our cutomer and are committed to reducing
odium and ugar, and reducing tran-aturated fat to le than 0.5% without compromiing on tate or qualit. In 2013, we launched a
permanent grilled menu, enuring that cutomer can enjo more option when viiting KFC.
Our KFC South Africa menu provide cutomer with a freh Green Salad option a well a a Grilled urger, Grilled Twiter, diet oft
drink and ottled water, availale nationall.
In Autralia, Pizza Hut launched a Light & Deliciou range, and offer a gluten free ae that i a permanent option on the menu.
Pizza Hut urope launched new alanced option in 2013:Tucani pizza range with alad on top in Poland (Prociutto & Arugula, Chorizo & Spinach)
Pizza Sun in German, Romania, Luxemourg and Sweden
Freh fruit everage, including grapefruit, cucumer and ail, and watermelon lemonade
Salad ar enhancement
New plated alad offering in Poland, Greece, Cpru and Romania
Pizza Hut Canada launched a range of alanced pizza and pata option endored  authoritie.China
In China, our larget growth market, we have teadil increaed the numer of menu
choice ince the mid-1990. More than 40 different vegetale option have een erved
in our China retaurant ince 2001. We offer a variet of locall relevant, nutritionall
alanced menu item, including the following:
Seaonal vegetale and corn alad
gg and vegetale oup, and fih all oup with green vegetale
An entire line of deliciou, health roated food, including Roated Chicken
Leg urger in a variet of local and international tle; Roated Pork urger
uch a Q Flavored Doule Might urger; Roated Wing; and local
favorite with a ditinctive KFC twiter and wrap.Chinee-tle reakfat menu of Congee and Soa Milk
Rice product with local and international flavor ha een highl praied  cutomer ince the firt launch in Feruar 2010
India
In 2012, KFC India launched an oven product called Fier Grilled Chicken. All of our KFC
retaurant in India (395 tore a of Decemer 31, 2014) now have oven and oven prepared
product. Fier Grilled Chicken wa promoted heavil and ha proven to e a ucceful addition
to the menu.
Pizza Hut in India meet the goal of providing more than 15% of the meal with le than one-
third RDA, which include peronal portion pata and Magic Pan Pizza.
Taco ell in India ha alo met the goal of more than 15% of the meal with le than one-third
RDA, which include the urrito, queadilla, and Mexican pizza.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Transparency
Our cutomer rel on u to provide tranparent, truthful information aout our menu option to help them make informed choice. We
recognize our reponiilit to educate our cutomer. We alo recognize that man of them trive to enjo an active, alanced lifetle.
We appreciate the importance of comining a enile diet with dail activit and a little fun.
In mot of our market around the world, we provide nutrition information via rand weite
and other cutomer-facing communication to inform our cutomer aout their choice.
rand weite lit ingredient for each permanent menu item. ach rand' weite
alo include nutritional value of food item, and potential food allergen and
enitivitie.
Nutrition rochure are availale to cutomer in retaurant with menu option that
fit into a alanced diet.
A we move ahead we are committed to working with our international franchiee to provide
thi information in all of our retaurant worldwide and on all of our online aet.
U.S.
A part of a roader Health and Wellne effort acro the United State, Yum! made a deciion not to advertie it product on televiion
program pecificall aimed at children under 12 ear old. We alo encourage market outide the U.S. not to do o.
Additionall, we worked with the U.S. Congre to enact uniform national menu oard guideline for prepared food ale, providing a
conitent wa to educate the pulic aout the nutritional value of the food the eat. Thi mandate wa included in the U.S.’ Affordale
Healthcare Act. The U.S. Food and Drug Adminitration ha finalized regulation to implement thi mandate and require companie to
compl with the requlation  Decemer 1, 2015. In compliance with the regulation, our U.S. rand (KFC, Taco ell and Pizza Hut) will
place individual erving ize calorie information on their repective menu.
In addition to ringing more alanced choice to the menu, Pizza Hut will make nutrition, allergen, and ingredient information eaier for
cutomer to acce in 2015.
Taco ell ha voluntaril poted ingredient tatement, nutrition and allergen information online ince 2008, and on moile device ince
2009.
International
At KFC Autralia, we are committed to eing open and tranparent in how we cook our food, providing cutomer with the opportunit to
make informed deciion on ehalf of themelve and their famil. We have een proactive in their approach to kilojoule laeling for
ome time, making it eaier for cutomer to e aware of the nutritional content in their meal. Since 2002, the have provided allergen information on in-tore rochure
Since 2008, the have provided detailed nutrition and allergen information on in-tore rochure, and on their weite
Since 2012, the were one of the firt quick ervice retaurant tem in Autralia to introduce menu oard laeling in all their
tore nationall, depite thi not eing required  law in ever tate
Since 2013, the introduced a nutrition calculator on their weite, for their cutomer to eail undertand the nutritionalvalue of their food.
In 2013, Pizza Hut Autralia wa the onl pizza chain to partner with the government on formulating QSR guideline. We alo have
kilojoule information on menu panel nationwide. Full nutritional and allergen data i availale in tore and online.
Pizza Hut Autralia had an overall odium reduction of 10% in pizza and ide dihe in 2013. xample of reduction:
Pepperoni: 29% reduction
eef Crumle: 25% reduction
Shredded Ham: 28% reduction
Diced acon: 14% reduction
Italian Sauage: 31% reduction
Chicken: 13.5% reduction
Our KFC South Africa market updated their weite in June 2013 to provide the nutritional information that cutomer need to make
informed deciion. Nutritional are alo availale on requet in the retaurant.
The Pulic Health Reponiilit Deal in the UK
The UK Department of Health work with the food manufacturing and retail indutr to improve the nation' health and welleing, and a
a high-profile food compan we have a role to pla in thi. In 2011, we ecame a partner of the Pulic Health Reponiilit Deal, and
pledged to roll out calorie information on all our menu oard.
KFC UK remain a committed partner to the Department of Health Pulic Health Reponiilit Deal. A part of thi we previoul rolled
out calorie information on our menu oard and in line with new U requirement we alo how energ information (KJ) for whole meal,
not jut individual item.
Throughout 2014 a part of our commitment to tranparenc we have provided information and anwered cutomer quetion aout
where our food come from, how we work with upplier, animal welfare and nutrition through the C i for Chicken and Let’ Talk
Chicken campaign. Thi remain an honet and traightforward wa for cutomer to ak u an quetion aout our food and our
retaurant.
A part of thi campaign of tranparenc we have reall focued on the provenance of our chicken to e open aout welfare and
tandard. We have produced video featuring Martin Shuker, our General Manager, and Mark axter, our previou Head of Technical,
where the viit the farm our chicken come from, and meet with Red Tractor auditor to dicu the welfare tandard of our chicken
and demontrate the hort and imple uppl chain that we have. Thee have een featured on our Faceook page, to upport open and
honet converation with our cutomer.
Red Tractor Week
We’re proud to e part of the Red Tractor farm aured cheme, an independent mark of qualit that guarantee the chicken we ource
from ever countr meet the high tandard for food afet and hgiene, animal welfare and the environment. Furthermore all our UK
upplier implement welfare enrichment in their arn, there exceeding the requirement of Red Tractor.
We introduced the Red Tractor logo on our ucket for the firt time in Septemer and were an active upporter of Red Tractor Week from
Septemer 15-21, 2014. We ran a full page advertiement in The Sun on Sunda during the Week and on our Faceook page.
One hundred percent of our Original Recipe Chicken on the one i Red Tractor certified and come from over 500 UK farm. We are
proud of our aociation with Red Tractor tandard of welfare and we want our cutomer to know aout it; that’ wh we made the
deciion to put the logo on pack. The new-look ucket were in tore in time for Red Tractor Week, providing the perfect opportunit to
promote our independentl audited qualit aured chicken to cutomer.”KFC German offer three tool to provide cutomer with nutrition information to make
informed deciion. Nutrition rochure are diplaed in all that provide an overview of
calorie, nutritional data, additive and allergen a well a a QR code to link to the KFC
online nutrient calculator. The calculator enale conumer to calculate all menu
option concerning nutrient and to get information on allergen and additive. On all
tra liner information on nutrient, allergen and additive are availale. eide the
main nutrient categorie (fat, carohdrate, protein, energ) additional information on
aturated fatt acid, ugar and alt i now included.
In 2013, KFC Thailand etalihed in-tore nutrition information, i.e. counter tandee,
rochure and a QR code to acce the KFC Nutrition weite.
Mot of the franchiee in Pizza Hut urope communicate full nutritional information on their weite.
China
In 2007, the China KFC Health and Nutrition Fund wa founded in an effort to fund the cience, reearch and education program related
to food, nutrition and cit reident. We donated 1.5 million Yen in 2013 and  the end of 2013, total donation to food cience reearch
and education program had reached over 12 million Yen to upport the elected program nationwide.
India
KFC and Pizza Hut in India proactivel dicloed the nutritional value of food on it rand weite. In addition, KFC offer leaflet in
tore which contain information on nutrition. Pizza Hut alo deploed a QR code on the menu to inform cutomer.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Nutritional Improvement
A we work to make nutritional improvement to our product, we are committed to reducing odium, eliminating tran
fat, retricting allergen and enitivitie and lowering calorie and fat--all while maintaining the deliciou tate our
cutomer know and love.
Sodium
Palm Oil
Other
Sodium
KFC U.S. i working hard to reduce odium in it product. The rand egan thi journe
to reduce odium in 2007  working with upplier to find option to reduce odium
without compromiing product qualit or unique tate. Great progre ha een made to
date, et the rand recognize there i till more work to do and i committed to
addreing thi nutritional improvement.
Taco ell U.S. ha an ongoing commitment to reduce odium level and ha team that
are continuoul evaluating ingredient technologie and functionalitie with upplier
to help reduce odium level. Taco ell’ effort to reduce odium acro it menu ha
een taking place ince 2008, and ince then ha reduced odium on average  15%
acro the menu.
Amid riing concern of American odium intake, Pizza Hut uccefull removed over half a million pound of alt from it menu in
2012 and ha plan to remove another 1.5 million pound of alt from core ingredient in 2015.
The rand team in India continue to look for wa to reduce odium in KFC and Pizza Hut menu option  working with upplier and
nutrition expert.
efore the introduction of the Pulic Health Reponiilit Deal, KFC UK wa the firt quick-ervice chain in the UK to top alting frie.
We have maintained a program to reduce the amount of alt in our food ever ear for more than five ear and recentl ecame one of
the firt companie to ign the Salt Pledge a part of the Reponiilit Deal, committing u to further reduce alt  training emploee
and changing our kitchen practice.
KFC UK i exploring an innovative technolog that ue alt crtal to further reduce alt in our Original Recipe chicken without
impacting tate. Our aim i to deliver an additional 15% reduction in alt from our et-elling product  the end of 2014.KFC UK’ effort uccefull cut the alt content in five of our chicken option  8 – 20% in 2012. Specificall, alt content in
recent ear ha fallen  24% in our popcorn chicken ince 2009
30% in our Zinger chicken ince 2011
15% in our Hot Wing in 201215% in our mini fillet in 2013
In Autralia, KFC ha uccefull implemented odium reduction initiative for a numer of product, making ignificant reduction
acro a range of product including:
2010: Reduced odium acro core chicken menu item  an average of 15% and eaoned chip alt  21%
2011: Reduced odium in urger un  30% and dinner roll  37%
Further reduction acro variou menu item including tortilla, acon and chicken product are currentl in progre.
We have alo een teting a numer of odium reduction initiative to proactivel help cutomer make more nutritional choice. During
World Salt Awarene Week, KFC Autralia activel encouraged cutomer via in-tore communication to hold the alt when ordering
KFC chip. The Autralian Diviion of World Action on Salt and Health (AWASH) howed it upport for the initiative, congratulating KFC
for taking a proactive tance on educating cutomer aout alt. Thi i jut one educational initiative Autralia will roll out to help
cutomer make informed deciion when the viit KFC.
Since 2008, Pizza Hut ha een teting ignificant odium reduction in core product, which have een rolled out in Korea, Canada and
Autralia. Reduction of up to 50% have een achieved and our goal i to roll thi out gloall. The rand ha alo developed a roader
gloal menu for the dine-in uine including pata, individual pizza, plated alad, an enhanced alad ar and everage roadening
the rand' appeal through menu variet and choice.
Since 2009, KFC German ha reduced odium in everal menu item including:Original Recipe reading  16%
Marinade for fillet ite  20%
Tortilla  35%
un  25%
We are contantl working on further alt reduction option in our recipe at KFC German. In 2014 we focued on the chicken marinade
to e launched in 2015.
In KFC Africa there ha een a 5% reduction in the Original Recipe reading reulting in 45 ton of alt removed from our cutomer’
diet.
Pizza Hut urope ha reduced the alt in it mozzarella cheee  15% and in it dough  17%.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Nutritional Improvement
A we work to make nutritional improvement to our product, we are committed to reducing odium, eliminating tran
fat, retricting allergen and enitivitie and lowering calorie and fat--all while maintaining the deliciou tate our
cutomer know and love.
Sodium
Palm Oil
Other
Palm Oil
A part of our gloal nutrition trateg, our goal over the next four ear i to phae out
palm oil wherever feaile. We have een working toward that goal and toda, nearl
70% of our gloal retaurant do not ue palm oil a their cooking oil.
For over four ear now, KFC UK ha conitentl een removing palm from our product
and replacing thi with unflower, rapeeed or oa oil. Thi egan in 2011 when we
topped fring in palm oil, witching to High Oleic Rape and Sunflower Oil.
 the end of Feruar 2015, KFC UK will have removed jut over 4,521 metric Tonne of
palm from our fring oil, chicken, un, Tortilla, frie, Hah rown, coette &
chocolate auce. There i onl a mall amount of palm oil remaining that we will
continue to work to remove. Thi mean we have removed 1,763,268 kg aturated fat -
that’ jut over 7 million pack (250g) of utter/ lard removed.
KFC Autralia introduced canola oil in Ma 2012 replacing reponil-ourced palm oil for cooking their frehl prepared menu item.
In Decemer 2013, KFC France phaed out of palm oil, uing a new oil mix coniting of unflower and rapeeed oil. Remaining market
that are currentl uing palm oil in product are reviewing and teting alternative.
At the end of 2014, KFC German phaed out of palm oil a a cooking oil, uing a new oil mix coniting of unflower and rapeeed oil with
a higher content of unaturated fatt acid. In addition our French frie are pre-fried in a palm-free oil lend.
Taco ell i phaing into onl uing utainale palm oil in our ingredient  the end of 2015.
We remain committed to implementing a gloal nutritional polic that include the removal of palm oil a a cooking oil. In 2015, an
environmental palm oil polic will take effect requiring market that will not meet our nutrition polic timeline to ource utainale
palm oil. Read the full polic here.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Nutritional Improvement
A we work to make nutritional improvement to our product, we are committed to reducing odium, eliminating tran
fat, retricting allergen and enitivitie and lowering calorie and fat--all while maintaining the deliciou tate our
cutomer know and love.
Sodium
Palm Oil
Other
Tran Fat
Man of our market including the U.S., Canada and India, have taken tep to remove a
much artificial tran fat a feaile from product offering. Since 2007, for example, all of
our KFC UK product have een free from artificial tran fatt acid.
In 2007, Taco ell’  U.S. retaurant completel witched to uing tran fat-free high-
oleic canola fring oil. With the exception of a few ingredient containing one gram or
le, all menu item are free of artificial tran fat. We are committed to completel
phaing out all artificial tran fat and palm oil from our menu  2015.
Allergen and Senitivitie
Acro all of our rand, we manage guideline regarding allergen and enitive ingredient and retrict them in current menu item and
in future product development. For example, peanut and tree nut are not ued at Taco ell  retaurant.
We alo identif potential allergen and enitivitie for all product and pulih that information on our rand weite for our
cutomer.
Calorie and Fat
Pizza Hut U.S.’ Pan, Thin ‘N Crip , Hand-Toed Stle and Stuffed Crut pizza contain:
Zero gram tran fat
No high fructoe corn rup
Onl heart-health vegetale oil
Taco ell’ Freco Menu ha even ignature item that are each under 350 calorie and 10 gram of fat. Maonnaie for the KFC urger in
China wa upgraded to  third-generation in which the fat content decreaed from 70% to 35%.
KFC South Africa replaced the Original Recipe Fillet with a Skinle Fillet in March 2013. Thi reulted in decreaing the fat from 12 gram
to five gram per 100 gram and the total energ from 247 Calorie to 198 Calorie per 100 gram.®
®
®KFC UK egan teting non-fried option and inveting in retaurant oven to upport thi initiative in 2011. Three retaurant in the
region have alo een earl adopter of the government' Food Standard Agenc to tet putting calorie on menu oard.
MSG
With the exception of Frito-La randed product, Taco ell i monoodium glutamate (MSG) free.
Pizza Hut India i monoodium glutamate (MSG) free while KFC India continue to explore wa to reduce MSG in menu item,
particularl in grilled and vegetarian option.
KFC German i currentl reviewing all marinade to ae potential for reducing the ue of MSG in chicken product.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Kids Meals
In the U.S., Kid Meal are not a major focu for our rand and repreent le than 2% of our uine. verwhere that we offer Kid
Meal, we continue to look for wa to offer more choice, more tranparenc and more nutritional improvement to our ounget
cutomer.
U.S.
KFC continue to make improvement to Kid Meal and to explore opportunitie for
improving the product offering and nutritional makeup of thee meal. KFC now ha a
variet of Kid Meal option, including meal under 300 calorie. For example, a meal
with a Kentuck Grilled Chicken  drumtick, green ean, GoGo queeZ  appleauce
and a Capri Sun Roarin’ Water, for onl 210 calorie.
Taco ell  dicontinued kid’ meal and to at it U.S. retaurant in Januar 2014,
ecoming the firt national quick ervice retaurant chain to do o with nationwide
implementation.
International
KFC Autralia i a founding memer of the Autralian Quick Service Retaurant Indutr
Initiative for Reponile Advertiing and Marketing to Children and ha een engaged
ince it inception in 2009. The initiative provide a common framework for quick ervice retaurant and require that memer onl
pulih or roadcat food and everage that repreent a healthier choice (a determined  a et nutrition criteria) to children 14 ear of
age and over.
Autralia ha alo voluntaril made additional commitment toward reponile marketing practice. In 2008, the team decided to no
longer advertie children’ meal in the media or target advertiing campaign directl at children. The were the firt quick-ervice
retaurant to remove to from children’ meal–a deciion that wa made to reduce ‘peter power’ aociated with to and to upport
parent in their effort to make informed dietar choice for their children.
In Feruar 2013, KFC Autralia launched a rand new Grilled Chicken Mini Wrap Kid Meal. Thi new meal i conidered a etter choice
for children ecaue it ha een developed to meet a et of trict nutrition criteria for children aged 4-8 ear. Thee criteria were
developed  a team of Accredited Practicing Dietitian in conultation with national guideline and authoritie on children’ nutrition.
KFC Africa removed to a an incentive in their kid' meal.® ™
®Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Stakeholders
Litening to Our Partner
Pizza Hut U.S. i a memer of The Whole Grain Council, which help conumer find
whole grain food and undertand their health enefit; help manufacturer and
retaurant create deliciou whole grain food; and help the media write accurate,
compelling torie aout whole grain. Pizza Hut’ whole grain crut for chool lunch i
endored  The Whole Grain Council.
Pizza Hut ha partnered with Udi’, the No. 1 gluten-free rand in North America, and the
Gluten Intolerance Group (GIG), the pioneer non-profit organization providing gluten-free
program and procee, to ring to market gluten-free cheee and pepperoni pizza prepared uing trict ack-of-houe procedure
certified  GIG.
Taco ell ha partnered with the American Vegetarian Aociation (AVA) to ecome the firt QSR retaurant to offer AVA certified
vegetarian food item.
Addreing the world' oeit challenge i daunting and we cannot do it alone. We need to enroll our partner in the effort to drive true
and lating change, a well a citizen' organization, academia and pecialit who deal with the potential negative impact of an
unalanced diet.
We uild know how  litening to and dialoguing with pecial interet group who help hape our undertanding of iue a the
evolve.
We are an active participant in the International Food Information Council (IFIC), and
erve on it oard of Director. IFIC i deepl involved in all level of polic and legilative
activit. Our preence ring an indutr perpective to the deciion-making proce. It alo
give u acce to information that help u formulate compan-pecific and coalition-
oriented trategie that are aed on conumer and cientific reearch.
Our nutritionit are memer of the
Academ of Nutrition and Dietetic
(formerl the American Dietetic Aociation),
the world' larget organization of food and
nutrition profeional. The Academ i committed to improving the nation' health and advancing the profeion of dietetic through
reearch, education and advocac. Memerhip in the Academ provide our nutritionit with networking and relationhip uilding
opportunitie, education on relevant topic including nutrition, phical activit, metaolim, and oeit and an opportunit to e a part
of the converation in improving the nation’ health.
We have had an active partnerhip with Dair Management, Inc. (DMI) ince 2012. With dedicated reource including nutrition
expert and onite dair cientit, DMI work directl with Taco ell and Pizza Hut to create new and innovative product uing dair to
delight cutomer. DMI i funded  America' nearl 49,000 dair farmer, a well a dair importer.
We are a Patron Memer of the School Nutrition Aociation . The Patron Program allow Yum! to increae interaction with chool
foodervice and child nutrition profeional.TMWe are alo Communit Partner with ChooeMPlate.gov  where we committed to
promoting the U.S. Dietar Guideline  poting a link to ChooeMPlate.gov on our
rochure, poter and weite.
KFC Thailand alo continue promoting a
alanced and active lifetle among oung
o age 12-15  upporting KFC Seven
Shoot, the greatet 7-plaer outh footall
league in Thailand, offering children in ever
chool and ever communit the opportunit
to demontrate their footall plaing
ailitie. The goal of thi program i to
encourage children to pend their pare time
exerciing and how their footall talent.
Since 2013, KFC German ha had an active
memerhip in German’ igget multi-
takeholder platform for oeit prevention for children and oung adult. In German more than 100 memer of “P”, the Platform
Diet and Phical Activit, work toward preventing overweight and oeit in children and oung people. The Platform unite ocial
force from ver divere field e.g. Government on federal, tate or local level, Health, ducation, Science, Indutr, Civil Societ and
Pulic Sector, Sport and Conumer Protection. All have the mutual concern of promoting health lifetle for children and oung
people. The memer make ue of their pecific poiilitie, reource and tructure to implement the jointl etalihed ojective,
field of action and concrete meaure.
In Ma 2014, KFC German wa elected a an active oard memer of “P,” an alliance to upport alanced diet and exercie to upport
health lifetle, in the field of communication and pulic relation with pulic affair, along with PR expert of P memer from the
area of education, indutr, port, health, cience, conumer protection, governmental organization and the pulic ector.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Food Safety & Quality
Goal: Maintain the afet, highet qualit food uppl and preparation in the indutr.
Food afet i the top priorit at Yum!. Our retaurant food afet tem include rigorou tandard and training of retaurant
emploee. Thee tandard and training topic include, ut are not limited to, emploee health, product handling, ingredient and
product temperature management and prevention of cro contamination. Food afet training i focued on illne prevention, food
afet and regulation adherence in da-to-da retaurant operation. Standard alo enure code compliance when uilding new or
renovating exiting retaurant.
Operating great retaurant that meet the highet food afet tandard i alo part of our commitment and i evident in ever apect of
our uine—from raw material procurement, including animal protein and produce, to food preparation and erving to our cutomer.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Supplier Food Safety
Our upplier qualit management tem include food afet and qualit requirement
that upport our QA viion, “Trut in ver ite,” tarting with the ourcing of material
and ending with the deliver of the highet level of ervice and uperior product to our
cutomer.
In electing a upplier we look for ke performance indicator for food afet preventive
control including:
Pet control
Sanitation
Operation and facilit management
Good manufacturing practice
Hazard Anali and Critical Control Point (HACCP)
Product protection
Recover
Food defene
In addition to meauring and teting food afet and ecurit practice, we look for outtanding performance in qualit control, not jut of
our product formulation, ut in upplier' management procee a well.
Our upplier food afet and qualit initiative are targeted at uilding food afet and qualit into ever proce, meauring our
upplier’ performance and providing regular feedack to upport and drive continuou improvement. We upport and require the ame
qualit initiative of our ditriutor. All upplier are tpicall audited at leat once per ear, with more frequent audit performed aed
on rik and performance level.
Our upplier are elected, aeed and rewarded through a rigorou Supplier Tracking and Recognition (STAR) program. We ue an
internal tem called STARnet to monitor upplier performance; STARnet enale upplier and Yum! qualit manager to pecificall
manage approving product pecification to reviewing and reponding to product evaluation and STAR audit.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Restaurant Food Safety
Nothing i more important to Yum! than protecting our cutomer. We value our rand’
reputation, too, which mean our top priorit i preventing health rik from ariing in
our retaurant. The nature and uine demand of the retaurant indutr require
Yum! to e aware of, and repond to, potential health and afet iue related to the food
we erve. We are proud of our food and we take our reponiilitie erioul.
To maintain a rigorou and conitent focu on the dnamic challenge of retaurant
food afet, our Gloal Food Safet Council work to continuoul improve Yum! food
afet policie, practice and procee, a well a minimize the rik of future afet
iue from ingredient or retaurant operation.  Yum!' Chief Food Safet Officer lead
the Council which i compried of enior food afet, qualit and compliance leader acro Yum!.
A an example, in 2014 Yum! updated and/or created 21 Food Safet Standard in compliment to the newl created gloal Yum! Food
Safet Policie.  All work wa completed through gloal review team repreenting all rand and diviion to enure uine relevance
and et practice were reflected in the final tandard.
Emerging Issues
We are committed to identifing and managing potential emerging iue that could
threaten cutomer of an of our rand in an market.  merging iue management i
an accountailit framework to help protect Yum! and our rand from the negative
impact of potential emerging food afet iue. merging iue monitoring help to
anticipate local, regional and gloal emerging iue, and work in partnerhip with the
Yum! Gloal Crii Management Program to alert and activate the Crii Core Team if an
iue ecome an actual threat. Monitoring of potential iue i managed at
rand/market level  repective Crii Core Team for appropriate rik mitigation and
repone coordination. ffectivel managing emerging iue help protect cutomer
and rand.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Regulatory Affairs
Proactivel etalihing poitive relationhip with ke U.S. Federal and tate leaderhip
continue to e of trategic importance to our rand and to Yum!. U.S. Federal and tate
Food Code influence in upport of conitent, unified and cience-aed regulation,
continue to e a priorit to enure ound, afe retaurant food afet practice acro
the U.S. Where permitted  law, Yum! alo encourage international uine unit to
uild poitive relationhip with regulator leader and to upport cience-aed
regulation. International uine unit are proactivel engaged in Regulator Affair
outreach with further expanion planned in 2015.
Yum! i trategicall involved in U.S. Food and Drug Adminitration (FDA) initiative
and platform uch a the Retail Food Safet Initiative (RFSI). The RFSI upport the FDA prevention-aed, farm-to-tale food afet
trateg and pecific action tep to drive improvement which will impact future agenc focu and FDA Food Code update in the interet
of rik mitigation and reduction of foodorne illnee in the U.S. Yum! i honored to have een requeted  the FDA to participate 
repreenting the retaurant food indutr ector.
Yum! upport FDA Food Code adoption at tate and local level. Yum! continue to e pro-activel engaged in tate Food Code work,
upporting the tate regulator communit in local code or regulation update. We have een tead and progreive move to more
cience-aed regulation, further upporting unified tate and local Food Code adoption.
We were pleaed to ee reference to the Council to Improve Outreak Repone (CIFOR) Indutr Guideline and Tool included in the
2013 FDA Food Code update. Yum! plaed an active role on the CIFOR Indutr Work Group for the pat five ear.
Yum! ha een committed and activel involved with the U.S. Conference for Food Protection (CFP) ince 1988 at variou level,
participating on council, elect committee and on the xecutive oard. CFP ring together food afet leader and expert repreenting
federal, tate and local regulator, trade, conumer, academia and indutr ector to engage, dicu and delierate pertinent food afet
topic of Food Code relevance. Our commitment to CFP remain trong, valuing thi unique etting to promote food afet and conumer
protection.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Crisis Management
The Yum! rand Crii Management Program i extenive and proactive to addre
potential crie that might impact our rand’ cutomer, emploee or location
anwhere acro the gloe. The gloal Yum! Crii Management Program enure that
ke deciion maker are properl identified and trained a Crii Core team memer
long efore a potential crii might occur. Thi help to prevent, mitigate and control
crii event through wift action and proper repone. Yum!’ online crii training
coure, along with crii we application tool, allow Crii Core team memer to
quickl identif and uccefull manage a crii within the Yum! tem efficientl and
effectivel .
The gloal Yum! Crii Management Program i reviewed periodicall oth internall
and externall in conultation with experienced medical and epidemiolog expert to
update content and Crii Core team memer training, when appropriate, aed upon
ke learning and hared et practice around the gloe. Thi gloal team’
collaorative approach and deep experience with regulator iue, food afet and crii
management et the tandard for other retaurant companie.
Yum! and it rand continue to pla a leaderhip role in continuou improvement
effort in the indutr. A an example, Yum! erved a an active indutr repreentative
in the creation of the firt Council to Improve Outreak Repone (CIFOR) Indutr Guideline for foodorne illne outreak prevention
and management. CIFOR i led  the Food and Drug Adminitration (FDA) and the Center for Dieae Control (CDC) and include
variou indutr, trade, tate and local regulator repreentative to prevent foodorne illne to the extent poile and to mitigate it
effect where necear. The CIFOR Indutr Guideline and Tool were incorporated  reference into the 2013 FDA Food Code update.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Ethical Sourcing & Supply
Goal: Sourcing the frehet food from an environmentall and ociall reponile agricultural uppl chain.
Our rand continue to focu on optimizing our agriculture uppl chain. A an indutr, procee and cutomer expectation change,
requiring u to e more aware of and attentive to our ocial and environmental impact. We have een reponive to iue a the arie,
et we cannot alwa control or avoid them at ever tage of the uppl chain. We work cloel with food proceor and, where poile,
with thoe who raie livetock and grow our produce to work in environmentall reponile wa. We have made great progre in a
numer of area where we feel we can have the greatet and mot ignificant impact.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct et forth our expectation and minimum tandard for all upplier and ucontractor
in our U.S. market. The Code addree uch iue a working hour and condition, non-dicrimination, child laor and
forced or indentured laor. We require upplier to conduct audit and inpection to verif compliance with the Code. In
addition, we reerve the right to conduct unannounced aement, audit and inpection of upplier facilitie.
Violation lead to diciplinar action, including termination of the upplier relationhip for repeated violation or
noncompliance. We encourage our upplier to exceed thee tandard and to hare their et practice with u o that we
can continue to improve.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Animal Welfare
The well-eing of animal ued in the production of food for our retaurant i ver important. Yum! work cloel with the expert on
our Animal Welfare Advior Council to enure application of cience-aed, humane animal handling practice. Our upplier are
expected to hare our commitment to humane handling of animal and we monitor their performance. Our goal i to work onl with
upplier that demontrate and maintain compliance with animal welfare practice.
Animal Welfare Advior Council
Yum! rand ha a track record of leaderhip in animal welfare. Our U.S. animal welfare leaderhip program egan with the formation of
the Animal Welfare Advior Council in 2003. The Council help u to continuoul reearch new method for oth welfare advancement
and viailit that will ultimatel determine the adoption of improved practice.
The Council wa intrumental in developing the Guiding Principle for our Animal Welfare Program. Thee Principle,
which appl to all poultr, pork, and eef upplier acro the U.S., focu on:
Animal treatment
Partnerhip with indutr expert
Ongoing training and education
Performance quantification and upplier improvement
Communication with indutr leader
The conitenc of etalihing et tandard for our rand ha allowed our upplier to concentrate on compliance and continuou
improvement.
The adoption of the American Meat Intitute laughter audit protocol for oth eef and pork upplier empowered our upplier to focu
their effort in accordance with thee well etalihed and roadl repected tandard.
Additionall, the Council ha een working cloel with Yum! and our rand around the world to align our core value on animal welfare
gloall, creating audit document and policie that addre iue of well-eing and etalih an environment that will aure
continuou improvement.
Our upplier continue to work diligentl with Yum! regarding animal welfare iue, undertanding full the requirement of the Yum!
program and the expectation of our cutomer. The chicken, eef and pork indutrie have addreed thee iue earnetl and
poitivel, recognizing that their cutomer and our require aurance that animal welfare i taken erioul. Yum! alo continue to e a
poitive force in promoting good welfare practice and the neceit for validation within the indutr. We are frequentl invited to peak
to indutr group, a well a government and pulic mpoia, aout animal welfare iue and development.
xternal ConultationWhile our tandard for animal welfare are high, we alwa eek knowledge from external ource to improve our practice where
appropriate. In the U.S., KFC ha contriuted to the work of the American Aociation of Avian Pathologit (AAAP) and ha previoul
een repreented on two AAAP Welfare ucommittee. Yum! i viewed  expert in academia and our indutr a poeing valuale
inight aout advancing animal welfare; addreing legitimate iue with prudence and delieration to foter incremental improvement.
International Focu
Yum! etalihed the Gloal Animal Welfare Program with input from the U.S., UK and our Animal Welfare Advior Council. Thi
program, which i aed in cience and et practice, allow for adjutment to cover local need and regulation.
Thi gloal program promote a conultanc approach to drive a etter undertanding of our ojective and animal welfare in general,
epeciall with repect to developing countrie. Our collaorative approach with upplier ha fotered a truting partnerhip and we are
aked to provide input when challenge arie. We alo encourage our upplier to invet in reearch and development that lead to
improvement in animal welfare.
Partnering with our upplier on a journe of common goal and continuou improvement ha reulted in a alanced approach enefiting
animal, upplier and our conumer who appreciate knowing that their food i coming from an ethical ource.
We have een ignificant poitive trend in performance indicator of good animal health and well-eing from our upplier.
Performance data i analzed, ranked and enchmarked againt the et performer in the Yum! Suppl Chain. Through thi proce,
upplier are informed of their trength and weaknee compared to other plaer in our uppl chain, thu encouraging improvement
in ke area.
In Autralia, indutr leader, tate, territor and Autralian government and Animal Welfare Group have developed animal welfare
code of practice for the poultr indutr. Thi continue to e governed  the Autralian Chicken Meat Federation, Inc. (ACMF). Annual
audit are carried out  third-part auditor and corrective action are taken for mied item.
Supplier alo provide quarterl update for review via elf-auditing program.
The UK program continue to e a trong and highl collaorative effort etween our UK uine and it upplier of local and imported
product. In 2011, KFC UK achieved Red Tractor certification for our freh ritih chicken on the one. It i an independent mark of qualit
and welfare tandard for our ritih freh chicken. We were alo recognized for our commitment to move to free-range egg in the UK.
While element of the Yum! program are adhered to in thi market, additional local regulator requirement are incorporated a well.
One Program
A we move ahead, we are working to nchronize our animal welfare program and policie. Integrating univeral animal welfare
principle that properl account for the iue of food afet and ecurit in the developing world ha een our primar focu. In 2012,
repreentative from Yum! Qualit Aurance team calirated with third part auditor in razil, a major exporter of roiler product, to
aure alignment with our policie and tandard. We elieve that etalihing foundational principle for animal well-eing while
recognizing regional prioritie and repecting the culture of our cutomer around the world i an achievale goal.
In the near future, we will adopt a ingle poultr welfare audit throughout our tem. Additionall, we will continue to demontrate our
commitment to animal welfare  working to contitute audit and policie that align our program for eef and pork.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Global Sourcing
Steven C. McCormick,
Preident and Chief xecutive Officer, RSCS
Retaurant Suppl Chain Solution, (RSCS), i honored to continue it 17-ear partnerhip with Yum! rand in providing
uppl chain management ervice for KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco ell. In the U.S., RSCS manage purchae of more than $6
illion on food, packaging, equipment and nonfood item for corporate and mot franchie-owned retaurant. volving
proprietar and trategic purchaing procee allow u to reduce cot and increae efficiencie acro an ever-changing
uppl chain landcape.
Acro our gloal market, Yum! rand uppl chain profeional work collaorativel with
franchie partner to manage food and packaging requirement, carefull leveraging efficiencie,
auring uppl and adhering to trade requirement. We work with thouand of upplier,
including U.S.-aed upplier that export to other countrie.
The Yum! China Diviion operate it own independent uppl chain tem, working with over 500
upplier to provide Yum! China retaurant with good and ervice.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Produce
Yum! i an indutr leader in driving enhancement in the afet of freh produce from
on-farm practice through proceing and ditriution to our retaurant. To help
further drive food afet enhancement in the produce uppl chain, a Produce Safet
Advior Council wa formed to advie our rand. The Council include indutr
produce expert and premier academic expert in produce and food afet.
Working together, the Council ha implemented the following in the U.S.:
Training requirement for field inpector who perform field rik
aement. The focu of the training i to identif rik and take action to
mitigate rik.
Pre-planting inpection to enure onl low-rik field are ued
Pre-harvet teting for . coli and Salmonella pathogen on produce, including iceerg lettuce, cilantro, romaine lettuce,
pinach, caage, tomatoe and onion.
Harvet crew adult training et practice. 
Finihed product lot--lot teting of freh-cut produce.
Significant wah water tem improvement for freh and freh-cut produce a well a reearch into new, more effective
method of wahing produce.
In collaoration with the United Freh Produce Aociation and the produce indutr, Yum! rand etalihed tandard for food afet
compliance in the tomato uppl chain a well a tandardization of Good Agricultural Practice audit for all produce. Initiative include:
Tomato metric and avoidance of comingling of tomato field per lot
Collaoration with the U.S. Center for Dieae Control and Prevention  and the U.S. Food and Drug Adminitration
Multiple joint-produce afet meeting on et practice with indutr leader, including other major quick-ervice
retaurant, retailer and ditriutor.
Additionall, Yum! alo encourage Integrated Pet Management (IPM) practice in the growing of freh produce. Supplier of freh
produce are activel engaged with grower who appl IPM principle in the production of produce upplied to our rand.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Genetically Modified Foods
Perception of the rik and enefit of Geneticall Modified Organim (GMO) a well a related regulation var from market to market
around the gloe. We trictl follow all government regulation wherever we operate. In ome countrie, GMO are generall accepted,
wherea in other countrie conumer are more reitant to GMO. Where reitance to GMO exit, we require our upplier to provide
non-GMO ingredient.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Our People
At Yum!, we champion “People Capailit Firt!” We know people are our greatet aet. We elieve in all people and activel invet in
coaching and growing the capailit of ever peron in our uine. Not onl that ut we celerate achievement and have fun doing it!
We deliver on our commitment  focuing on thee ke area:
Our Culture
mploer rand of Choice
uilding People Capailit
Aociate WelleingYum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Our Team
The utainailit of our uine tart with our commitment to our 1.5 million gloal aociate and franchiee. We know our greatet
competitive trength are our culture and the aociate in our retaurant and Retaurant Support Center worldwide. For man of our
team memer, working in one of our retaurant i often their firt jo. We take erioul our reponiilit to help all of our aociate
develop the life kill the need to e ucceful in whatever the do.
With more than 41,000 retaurant in 125 countrie and territorie, our uine i divere and complex. Nearl 80% of our retaurant
are owned  franchiee or licenee. ecaue our tem i multifaceted and we cannot overee aociate practice in ever retaurant,
we are unwavering when it come to offering guideline, coaching and training that encourage our franchiee and licenee to
implement and manage et practice in accordance with our corporate goal and ojective.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Associate Rights & Responsibilites
All of our aociate have the right to work in a fair and afe environment. Our
Worldwide Code of Conduct hold all of u accountale for enuring that we treat our
colleague with repect and fairne, allowing them to e recognized and rewarded
aed on their performance. For more information view the Worldwide Code of
Conduct .
We expect our aociate, franchiee and upplier to compl with all applicale local
laor law regarding wage and working hour in ever countr in which we operate.
There i no place in our organization for an tpe of harament or dicrimination
ecaue of age, gender, gender expreion and/or identit, race, religion, national origin,
exual orientation, or phical ailitie.
nuring a Safe Working nvironment
The afet of our aociate and cutomer i deepl emedded in our primar uine ojective and in the activitie of our gloal
operation. Health and afet i managed acro all of our trategic uine diviion – KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco ell, China, India and among
our franchie owner. In the U.S., our Lo Prevention team ha annual performance goal heavil weighted on afet in compan-owned
retaurant. Our China, India and international market have imilar afet goal. In addition, franchiee and licenee are provided with
afet and ecurit tandard a well a training et forth in our operational policie and procedure.
All of our operation around the world compl with local regulation regarding afet and injur tracking. Our goal i to continue to
reduce the numer of accident and injurie in our retaurant, and ome of our major market have ucceeded in ignificantl reducing
injur frequenc rate. For example, the injur frequenc rate in our U.S. compan-owned retaurant have declined  over 71% in the
lat 17 ear (from 1997-2014). In market where we have een an increae in the numer of work-related accident and injurie, we are
working to implement health and afet training and other program to addre the area of concern.
We alo have a numer of program in place to continuoul improve our health and afet effort. In the U.S., we offer afet leon,
review and accident invetigation in all compan-owned retaurant. Memer of our enior leaderhip team receive quarterl afet
and performance data for U.S. compan operation. In the UK, we offer life-aving deliver driver training, licening and uniform for our
motorccle deliver driver.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Human and Labor Rights Policy at Yum! Brands
Yum! rand i committed to maintaining a work environment that repect and
upport human right for all of our emploee around the world. We will not emplo
underage children or forced laorer and we prohiit phical punihment or aue. We
repect the right of all emploee to aociate or not to aociate with an group, a
permitted  applicale law and regulation. We compl with all local laor law in
ever market where we operate. We promote, protect and help enure the equal
enjoment of human right  all peron, including thoe with diailitie, minoritie
and women. We have and will continue to partner with variou takeholder to collect
input and help guide our human right effort.
thic and Compliance
Yum! rand’ ucce i uilt on the integrit and high ethical tandard of our aociate. Our ethic and compliance program, aed on
our Worldwide Code of Conduct, demand the highet ethical tandard in all of our operation around the gloe.
Worldwide Code of Conduct
Yum!’ Worldwide “Code of Conduct” i more than a document – it i the foundation for the wa we conduct ourelve and do uine
throughout the world. It call for the highet tandard of ethical ehavior from our oard memer, executive and 1.5 million
aociate. The Code of Conduct et forth the policie and procedure regarding tandard of conduct that are required of Yum! director
and emploee. The Code of Conduct i intended to help emploee conform to high ethical tandard and to protect Yum! and it
emploee' reputation.
The Code i pulihed in nglih, Chinee, French, German, Korean, Portuguee, Ruian, Spanih, Thai and Turkih. It can e found at
www.um.com/invetor/governance/conduct.ap.
mploee Relation
Yum! recognize that one of it greatet trength lie in the talent and ailit of it emploee. mploee are expected to hold
themelve accountale to the highet profeional tandard, with mutual repect eing the ai of all profeional relationhip.
Human reource goal have een etalihed to guide the Compan activitie in emploee relation. It i the Compan’ polic:
to deal fairl with emploee;
to provide equal opportunit for all in recruiting, hiring, developing, promoting and compenating without regard to race,
religion, color, age, gender, diailit, genetic information, militar or veteran tatu, exual orientation, gender, gender
identit and/or expreion, citizenhip, national origin, or other legall protected tatu;
to maintain a profeional, afe and dicrimination-free work environment;
to recognize and compenate emploee aed on their performance; and
to provide a competitive arra of enefit.
Sexual, racial, ethnic, religiou or an other tpe of harament ha no place in the Yum! work environment. Racial, ethnic and religiou
harament include uch conduct a lur, joke, intimidation or an other veral or phical attack upon a peron ecaue of race,
religion or national origin.Supplier Code of Conduct
Yum! rand i committed to conducting it uine in an ethical, legal and ociall reponile manner. To encourage compliance with
all legal requirement and ethical uine practice  Yum! rand upplier and ucontractor, Yum! ha etalihed it’ Supplier
Code of Conduct (the “Code”) for Yum!’ US upplier (“Supplier”).
The Yum! Supplier Code of Conduct et forth our expectation and minimum tandard for all Supplier and ucontractor in our US
market. The code addree working hour and condition, non-dicrimination, child laor and forced or indentured laor. We require
Supplier to conduct audit and inpection to verif compliance with the code. In addition, we reerve the right to conduct unannounced
aement, audit and inpection of Supplier facilitie. Violation lead to diciplinar action, including termination of the Supplier
relationhip for repeated violation or noncompliance.
Compliance with Law and Regulation
Supplier are required to aide  all applicale law, code or regulation including, ut not limited to, an local, tate or federal law
regarding wage and enefit, workmen’ compenation, working hour, equal opportunit, worker and product afet, and conflict
mineral. Yum! alo expect that Supplier will conform their practice to the pulihed tandard for their indutr.
mploment Practice
Working Hour & Condition: In compliance with applicale law, regulation, code and indutr tandard, Supplier are expected to
enure that their emploee have afe and health working condition and reaonale dail and weekl work chedule. mploee
hould not e required to work more than the numer of hour allowed for regular and overtime work period under applicale local,
tate and federal law.
Non-Dicrimination: Supplier hould implement a polic to effectuate all applicale local and federal law prohiiting dicrimination in
hiring and emploment on the ground of race, color, religion, ex, age, phical diailit, national origin, creed or an other ai
prohiited  law.
Child Laor: Supplier hould not ue worker under the legal age for emploment for the tpe of work eing performed in an facilit in
which the Supplier i doing work for Yum!. In no event hould Supplier ue emploee ounger than 14 ear of age.
Forced and Indentured Laor: In accordance with applicale law, no Supplier hould perform work or produce good for Yum uing laor
under an form of indentured ervitude, nor hould threat of violence, phical punihment, confinement, or other form of phical,
exual, pchological, or veral harament or aue e ued a a method of dicipline or control.
Notification to mploee: To the extent required  law, Supplier hould etalih compan-wide policie implementing the tandard
outlined in thi Code and pot notice of thoe policie for their emploee. The notice hould e in all language necear to full
communicate the polic to it emploee.
Audit and Inpection
ach Supplier hould conduct audit and inpection to inure their compliance with thi Code and applicale legal and contractual
tandard. In addition to an contractual right of Yum! or Retaurant Suppl Chain Solution, LLC (RSCS), the Supplier’ failure to
oerve the Code ma uject them to diciplinar action, which could include termination of the Supplier relationhip. The uine
relationhip with Yum! and RSCS i trengthened upon full and complete compliance with the Code and the Supplier’ agreement with
Yum! and RSCS.
ApplicationThe Code i a general tatement of Yum!’ expectation with repect to it Supplier. The Code hould not e read in lieu of ut in addition
to the Supplier’ oligation a et out in an agreement etween Yum! or RSCS and the Supplier. In the event of a conflict etween the
Code and an applicale agreement, the agreement hall control.
NOT: Retaurant Suppl Chain Solution, LLC i the uppl chain purchaing co-op for U.S. compan-owned and mot franchied KFC,
Pizza Hut and Taco ell retaurant.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Our Culture
Goal: Continue driving How We Win Together  (HWWT)  leaderhip principle ever da and trengthening our ‘famou recognition culture where everone
count.
We’re proud of the unique culture we've uilt, one that' filled with energ, opportunit and fun. We elieve in our people, trut in their
poitive intention, encourage idea from everone and have activel developed a workforce that i divere in tle and ackground.
Yum! i a place where anone can, and doe, make a difference.
Anne erlein
Chief People Officer
Yum! rand, Inc.
“At Yum!, our recognition culture i what et u apart from our competition. We motivate and inpire each other to ring
our et to work ever da o that not onl do we have great happ team memer, ut we have ver atified cutomer.”2 2Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
HWWT
Our corporate value—or what we call our How We Win Together Principle (HWWT) —are uilt around a “People Capailit Firt”
philooph and la the groundwork for the wa we team together ever da. Thi unique et of principle guide all apect of our
aociate' dail work live, profeional and peronal development and cutomer interaction.
At Yum! rand, we:
elieve in All People ecaue we elieve everone ha the potential to make
a difference.
Are retaurant and cutomer maniac…We love running great retaurant
and our cutomer rule.
Go for reakthrough  aking ourelve, “What can I do NOW to get
reakthrough reult in m piece of Yum!?”
uild know how  eing avid learner, puruing knowledge and et
practice inide and outide our compan to drive for reakthrough.
xercie Take the hill teamwork  teaming together to drive action and to
get ig thing done with urgenc and excellence.
Recognize! Recognize! Recognize! which help u to attract and retain the
et people and inpire greatne.
 2
2Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Recognition
Recognition i an integral part of our culture—we celerate thing ig and mall— and the
reaon our culture i rimming with poitive energ, teamwork and fun. We love celerating
the achievement of other and have lot of fun doing it!
Our new Chief xecutive Officer, Greg Creed, i uilding on the alread trong recognition
culture etalihed  pat Chairman and Chief xecutive Officer David Novak. Greg i
paionate aout putting people firt and ha rought hi own peronalit to hi ver own
recognition award, which i given to people at the Compan who are true rand uilder.
Having a peronal recognition award i not unique to onl leader. Man aociate
throughout the Compan have their own peronal recognition award, including highl
pretigiou honor like the “Red Roof” hat recognition at Pizza Hut, the “Pla like a Champion
Toda” award at KFC and the "Sauce Packet" at Taco ell.
We have man other wa of ringing recognition to life that engage emploee from our
Retaurant Support Center down to our team memer. Some example of thee are:Miletone Service Award
Cutomer Mania Award
Recognition Card
Champion Clu Celeration
Retaurant General Manager Conference
Our recognition culture i world famou.
Click for larger izeYum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Customer Maniacs
We invet in delivering uperior cutomer ervice and atifaction, which we refer to a
Cutomer Mania. Annuall, we train our aociate around the gloe to ecome
Cutomer Maniac, empowered to do whatever the can to erve and atif our
cutomer. Thi make uine ene and help our aociate to uild relevant
uine and cutomer-interaction kill. Our focu on Cutomer Mania tart with
developing our people and their leaderhip kill.
How We Lead
At Yum!, we elieve that everone i a leader. We expect our aociate to trive for
reakthrough reult in their piece of Yum!, a well a develop themelve and their team. Regardle of poition within our tem, we
coach and upport ever individual to grow to their full potential.
Our How We Lead principle are:Step Change Thinker: Uing innovative and unconventional approache to achieve reakthrough reult
Know How uilder: Seeking and haring information to grow the uine
Action Driver: Achieving reakthrough reult  puhing eond current poiilitie
People Grower: uilding world cla capailit  developing ourelve and other
How We Win Together: Walking the talk of our cultureYum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Employer Brand of Choice
Goal: e a magnet for the et talent  articulating a clear emploee value propoition and comprehenive emploer randing implementation plan to
attract, retain and grow our people.
Yum! and our rand put trong intentionalit ehind uilding our reputation a great place to work. We are proud that Yum! ha een
recognized on FORTUN'S Top 50 World' Mot Admired Companie Lit in 2013.
In 2012, we replaced our internal engagement urve with the highl regarded Great Place to Work Surve (GPTW). Thi tool aee
emploee engagement on five dimenion: crediilit, repect, fairne, pride and camaraderie, which comine reult from an
emploee urve and management urve, with the experience of emploee eing the mot important element of the evaluation,
accounting for two-third of the total core. Leading companie in the world take part in thi urve and we are now ale to compare
ourelve to the et of the et in regard to engagement.
In thi firt ear of the new urve, we reached an 89% participation rate acro 11 uine unit , including five that invited team
memer to take the urve. In 2014, ix KFC Gloal Market & Yum! Canada participated in the GPTW Surve in order to eek
accreditation, of which ome reult and outcome are till pending.
We are alo working at a market level to etalih a clear mploee Value Propoition
that uild our reputation a an emploer of choice. KFC UK’ work in thi area ha
earned them a place on the top 50 UK GPTW lit for five ear, making them a GPTW
Laureate. In 2012, 2013 and 2014 the uine unit wa named ritain’ Top mploer in
the large compan categor, ecoming the firt uine to receive the accolade three
ear in a row. KFC UK alo made the Cit and Guild lit of top 100 Apprentice
mploer in 2014, and wa highl commended in the categor of Macro mploer of the
Year for 2014. Thi team’ commitment to uilding pride and connection within their workplace and ignificant invetment in training
and development are driver for thi recognition.
KFC i alo recognized a one of the et workplace in the UK at the 2013 Great Place to Work et Workplace Program, ranking 18th in the
Large mploer categor. Great Place to Work recognized KFC UK for the fun and friendl culture, trong team work and collaorative
environment and for the vat range of learning, development and education opportunitie open to emploee. Organization who take
part in the et Workplace Program are evaluated uing a unique methodolog, which comine reult from an emploee urve and
management urve, with the experience of emploee eing the mot important element of the evaluation, accounting for two-third of
the total core.
Yum! Canada wa named in April 2014 a one of the 50 et
Workplace in Canada  GPTW for the econd ear in a row. The
compan earned thi nomination through it high core on
emploee urve, a well a through an in-depth review of itculture and HR policie and procedure. The were alo awarded a one of the 50 et Workplace in Canada for Women
for 2014  GPTW.
“Our team i the ecret recipe that make Yum! Canada uch a dnamic, divere and exciting place to work, and it’ an
honor to e lited among Canada’ et workplace. We know that people don’t jut pla a role in our ucce – the are
the reaon for our ucce,”
–rian Henr, Director, Human Reource, Yum! Canada
A numer of other market have alo een recognized for eing a great emploer. KFC Ruia wa named a one of the top 100
emploer in Ruia  Headhunter Compan Group’ 2014 ranking, KFC Vietnam wa named one of Vietnam’ 100 et emploer 
Anphae Compan and Nielen Vietnam and additionall, KFC Autralia wa recognized a the Supreme Retailer of the Year 2014  the
National Retail Aociation.
In China, an online poll  the Xinhuanet New Agenc named Yum! China the 2013 Netizen Voted Mot Truted mploer rand. Yum!
wa alo named to the cit of Tianjin’ Top 10 mploer lit.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Engaging Our Associates
We elieve “the more ou know, the more ou care.” A a reult, we activel encourage open dialogue acro the entire organization and
continuoul eek feedack to ae how we are doing a a compan. ngaging with our aociate i a priorit at Yum! and we achieve
high level of engagement within our tem in everal wa.
Leaderhip ngagement
Operation team pend a coniderale amount of time in our retaurant—a minimum
of 80% of their time i pent in our retaurant, not in an office. Thi mean that each
memer of the Operation team talk monthl to aociate aout their work, live and
the uine.
Our xecutive Team alo pend ignificant amount of time in our retaurant,
oerving and peaking directl with emploee and cutomer. Thee dicuion often
lead to improvement in aociate program and operation procedure, a well a new
product innovation.
The rand and diviion enior leaderhip team conduct roundtale, team meeting,
focu group, conference call and wecat for gloal audience. In 2014, 28 gloal
wecat eion were conducted in order to connect gloal partner and hare et
practice.
Greg Creed hot a quarterl “Chat with Greg” wecat for all gloal aociate to hare update aout our uine, anwer quetion and
liten to feedack and idea. Greg alo communicate frequentl to the gloal tem through our internal ocial network, where he
hare hi travel, viit to retaurant, peronal thought on the uine, celerate and recognize accomplihment, and eek input
from other.
mploee ngagement
Our aociate are our greatet rand amaador, and engaging them in our uine i
a priorit.
In 2014, part of our uine implemented an emploee engagement urve at the team
memer level aimed at giving ever team memer in our gloal uine a voice. We
know that our cutomer experience will never exceed that of our team memer
experience. Given thi in addition to our commitment to our people, we ue thee urve
reult to enhance our team memer’ experience  ringing our culture to life at the
retaurant.
In 2011, our Ruia market introduced the Cutomer Maniac Clu—a elect group of
Retaurant General Manager (RGM), Area Manager and team memer who emod the concept of cutomer mania. Thi group,
nominated each ear  a committee of aove retaurant leader, receive pecial acknowledgement at the annual RGM conference.
Nominee are invited to attend the RGM conference of a iter market to meet peer, hare et practice, viit KFC retaurant and
ightee. In 2014, the group viited our China diviion.KFC UK launched KFC Voice in 2014, an emploee engagement tool that enale ever team memer to provide feedack on their KFC
experience. The urve i aed upon our four engagement pillar, Pride, Grow, Connect and Cutomer, and enale u to meaure team
memer engagement at an organization and retaurant level. Thi initiative i a ke part of our model to uild a great culture 
providing each Retaurant General Manager with a feedack report the can create an action plan againt with their team. For our firt
KFC Voice run in June, there wa a 65% participation rate. Moving forward, the two main urve will take place annuall.
Pizza Hut US i focued on connecting with emploee on their level. Through an innovative
training tle, team memer have the chance to fail in a afe environment and ee real-world
outcome of correct and incorrect choice. Team memer are active participant in their learning
experience, and  collecting heart and mile, ee how important their contriution are to Pizza
Hut. The ue of Gamification for training ha proved to e a great ucce o far, with 94% of team
memer aing the enjoed the game-like interaction and 97% aing the will rememer and
appl what the learned. Additionall, Pizza Hut US alo provide ocial media platform for
emploee to interact and hare pot.
At Taco ell U.S., emploee engagement i a critical part of executing new product launche. In
2014, Taco ell piloted a new urve methodolog called The Pule, which allow team memer to provide feedack regarding culture in
the retaurant. Team memer can take the urve at the retaurant or at home (where applicale) via their moile phone, talet or
dektop computer. Thi program i the rand’ firt opportunit to connect with and receive feedack directl from team memer to
trul undertand the retaurant from the team memer perpective. The inight gained o far will lead to future Human Reource
initiative and it i our goal to create a great place to work and tructure incentive and reward around what i mot important to the our
retaurant emploee. The Pule pilot urveed approximatel 30,000 team memer and i et to launch nationall to all retaurant in
June 2015.
In Septemer 2014, Taco ell launched a log that ring the compan’ rand Soul to team memer. Thi innovative platform ak team
memer to hare how the are adding more flavor to their live and to expre their Live Má moment. Team memer hare hoie
uch a painting and travel and what i important to them outide of work, including famil and their education. Thi log allow team
memer to hare their individualit and give Taco ell the opportunit to connect with team memer in a whole new wa.
Taco ell ha alo utilized ocial media in an effort to engage and recognize retaurant emploee acro the countr. The ue of ocial
media outlet uch a Intagram and Faceook to recognize emploee allow Taco ell to ring their recognition culture to life in new
wa, engage emploee, and hare their appreciation with a ma audience. Now, torie hared  cutomer of emploee providing
great ervice are roadcat acro thee channel to give emploee recognition on a greater cale.
Grateful Rallie at Taco ell have een created to how team memer how grateful we are for them and to a thank ou for everthing
the do. In mid-2015, thee rallie will take place in all retaurant acro the nation in an effort to connect team memer to the rand,
review our purpoe, promie, and principle, and enure that we feed our emploee’ live with Má, o that the can feed other.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Coaching and Mentoring
Our ucce i defined  one factor: the qualit of our people. So, we therefore place
extraordinar emphai on growing our people and contantl trive to identif our
future leader and accelerate their development.
Our emerging talent program uild our ench trength  creating talent pipeline for
leaderhip role. Program like ig Leap Forward in our international market, lue
Spring in MNA, Gloal merging Leader Program in Autralia or Jump the Gap in
Pizza Hut U.S. include peronal involvement and coaching from executive leaderhip
and a focu on developing effective work tle and relationhip.
We alo value and upport mentoring a a powerful tool for oth peronal and profeional growth. Leader with a road range of
organizational knowledge and experience mentor other on development need, career advancement, and the challenge that come with
tranitioning to larger role and reponiilitie. A an example, our China team leverage mentoring to enale our enior aociate to
guide, coach and upport high-potential aociate to develop and retain them. A a reult, our operation taff in China, which
repreent aout 90% of our entire China-aed team, ha een entirel developed and promoted from within. Within our
International diviion, high-potential aociate are paired with a enior leader in the ame function ut a different market to drive know
how and uine expoure.
Our India diviion had a reakthrough idea and launched Yum! Academ to uild a pipeline of “read-now” team memer. To do thi,
the recruit potential team memer from underprivileged area of India, and then teach them ocial kill, hopitalit, hgiene and how
to e cutomer maniac. Thi idea how jut how dedicated our team i to making our HWWT  culture a competitive advantage for oth
our compan and our emploee.
KFC Autralia run an Area Mentoring Program where a enior leader from the Retaurant Support Center i paired with an Area Coach
and area of retaurant. Thi happen for all 23 Area Coache and Franchie uine Coache all over Autralia and ha een running for
over a decade. The Area Mentor attend ‘Field Ching Da’ where the viit retaurant with the Area Coach or Franchie uine Coach
and uild relationhip with the team, reinforcing the idea of ‘A Retaurant Support Center that live and reathe operation’. The Area
Mentor alo upport the Area Coach or Franchie uine Coach with oth their own peronal growth and uine growth.
At Yum! Canada, the have created a formal mentoring program where enior manager mentor teammate to encourage and foter
their profeional growth — and help guide them on their journe to achieve their goal. Thi program ha een extremel helpful for
emploee in having the guidance in unlocking their potential. In 2014, the egan revere mentoring where junior leader were paired
with enior leader to educate them on the latet digital trend in ocial media.
Pizza Hut urope ha an active mentoring program where emploee at the Retaurant Support Center have mentoring relationhip.
Some of the mentee have mentor who are outide the Pizza Hut urope office, including mentor from KFC Central urope and Taco
ell U.S.
Thee program enure continuit of leaderhip, and a continued commitment to drive our culture. The alo poition Yum! a a gloal
leader in talent management and are a ource of great pride for u.2Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Diversity
Diverit i an organizational priorit et  our xecutive Chairman, David Novak, and
paionatel upported  our new CO, Greg Creed. We elieve that the more our
compan—including all level of our workforce, franchiee and upplier—reflect and
engage the gloal marketplace in which we operate, the more we'll e ale to atif our
cutomer. We do that with a "elieve in All People" attitude. We trut in poitive
intention and elieve everone ha the potential to make a difference. We activel eek
diverit in other to expand our thinking and make the et deciion. We coach and
upport ever individual to grow to their full capailit.
Around the gloe, we are proud of the action taken  our team to turn our “elieve in
All People” principle into realit. In our France office, we have 19 different nationalitie.
The team leverage cultural diverit to drive innovation and cro-cultural leaderhip development. In our Cota Rican uine, our
team i activel adding aociate with diailitie with the mindet of “Sin tiqueta” (No Lael). Thee action ait u  enaling
growth through the ue of all availale talent. While our Aia and India team have taken old action to enure our female aociate are
developed and prepared for promotion via the ue of internal and external program, a well a upport from leaderhip.
Diverit and Incluion i aout unleahing the power of people! Creating an environment where all people feel valued and upported,
allow the focu to e on the work that lead to more engagement, innovation, execution and poitive uine reult.
Recruitment and Retention
Progre in our diverit initiative i a uine priorit and the work of everone in our tem. ach of our rand ponor and activel
engage in leaderhip initiative focued on recruiting and developing high-potential divere talent. Thee initiative include, ut are not
limited to a highl intentional recruitment program with a goal of 30% divere candidate identification that focue on:
1. Hiring top, divere internhip and pot MA talent via the Conortium for Graduate Stud in Management
2. uilding dnamic, and rout partnerhip with the National Societ of Hipanic MA (NSHMA), National lack MA
Aociation (NMAA), the National Aociation of Women MA (NAWMA), the Women' Foodervice Forum (WFF) and the
Multicultural Foodervice and Hopitalit Alliance (MFHA).
3. Leveraging online uine networking tool to communicate our jo opening to ke diverit group and aociation.
More than 78% of our U.S. Compan operation hire in 2014 were either women or minoritie. Similarl, over 72% of
promotion were either women or minoritie.
Our goal i to continue developing and increaing female leaderhip acro the organization with emphai on the General Manager
repreentation in our international uine and executive level talent dometicall. In 2014, we continued our effort to create and
execute temporar international aignment for female aociate to uild know how, capailit and ench talent trength. Yum! et aold international goal of developing 15 female for leaderhip poition within the International organization and i well on the wa to
achieving thi goal. In 2014, women otained the role of Preident of our Taco ell International uine and Chief Operation Officer of
our Thailand uine. Additionall, 37% of enior level leaderhip poition in 2014 were filled  women.
Diverit i alo a tanding part of our quarterl uine Review. We focu on providing rout growth opportunitie through
roadening experiential and developmental aignment. In 2014, we continued to focu on uilding learning experience that increae
our multicultural competenc, improve our communication kill, uild etter team and drive creativit and innovation. Yum! i an
active partner in the Conference oard Gloal Chief Diverit Officer Council, a network of diverit practitioner who meet regularl to
dicu gloal diverit et practice. In Louiville, Yum! helped tart a chapter of MA Women International with one of our executive
erving a the chapter' firt Preident.
Our franchiee are alo committed to diverit and in ome cae are lazing a trail for women in their own market. For example, the
Americana franchie group in the Middle at wa the firt retaurant compan to emplo women in the ack of houe of retaurant in
Saudi Araia. Americana alo taff call center in Riah and Jeddah with women.
NGAGMNT THROUGH MPLOY RSOURC GROUPS
Here at Yum!, an engaging culture i important to u. A uch, we are contantl working to enure all of our aociate have
opportunitie to engage. One of the wa to engage i through our mploee Reource Group. Our group offer opportunitie to:Ait in onoarding new talent,
Support peronal and profeional development,
Philanthrop/Volunteerim,
Support talent recruitment,
And impact the uine  haring inight and feedack.
We are alo proud to a that we are upportive of all communitie celerating diverit. In 2014, we once again earned a “Green” rating
on the Corporate qualit Index. Thi urve i umitted to and validated  the Human Right Campaign and aee the organization
enefit and workplace equalit for memer of the LGT communit.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Franchisees and Suppliers
At Yum!, we trul elieve that everone hould have an equal opportunit to do uine with u.
We alo know that leveraging unique perpective and talent allow u to upport the emerging
need of our cutomer and the marketplace. That’ wh we are focued on attracting, developing
and retaining divere franchiee and upplier.
Franchiee
To demontrate our commitment to franchiee diverit, we etalihed a Minorit Lending Aitance Program in 2010 focued on
aiding qualified propective minorit franchiee in their effort to enter the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco ell tem. Our goal i to increae
the numer of minorit franchiee and minorit owned retaurant in our tem.
Yum! ha een recognized  the International Franchie Aociation (IFA) with the Ronald . Harrion Award for our
accomplihment in Diverit and Incluion. Additionall, in a urve conducted  the National Minorit Franchiing Initiative, KFC wa
recognized  USA TODAY a one of the Top 50 Franchie for Minoritie for it continued work recruiting divere franchiee.
Supplier
We are proud of the progre we have made and continue making in growing our upplier diverit effort in the U.S. We partner cloel
with Retaurant Suppl Chain Solution (RSCS) to work toward our goal of increaing pend with divere uinee. Additionall, we
ak current upplier to join in our effort  alo inveting in divere upplier.
We continue to align with diverit leader uch a the National Minorit Supplier Development Council, the National Uran League, the
League of United Latin American Citizen and the U.S. Pan-Aian American Chamer of Commerce and other to provide trategic acce
to minorit upplier and entrepreneur who are exploring uine opportunitie.
 partnering together, we create dnamic and rich environment that reflect toda’ conumer, emploee and communitie. Learn
more  aout our upplier diverit program.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Specially-Abled Restaurants
One of our How We Win Together  principle — elieve in All People — i uilt on the
importance of activel eeking diverit, elieving everone ha the potential to make a
difference and coaching and upporting ever individual to grow to their full capacit.
elieving in all people, we take great pride in creating emploment opportunitie for
people with diailitie.
The ucce of our peciall-aled retaurant program are driven  a 360 degree
approach to developing peciall-aled team memer with a focu on hiring, training,
creating an enaling work environment with tailored equipment, engaging the team
memer and aiting their development for growth and career progreion.
Yum! India
Yum! India opened the diviion’ firt peciall-aled KFC retaurant in 2008 and ha
ince expanded to 21 peech and hearing impaired tore acro the countr, emploing
over 300 team memer, even hift manager, and one Aitant Retaurant Manager,
who are all peech or hearing impaired. The Yum! India team plan to continue
developing thee tpe of retaurant with a goal of opening another five peciall-aled
KFC retaurant in 2015.
In March 2013, the Yum! India team received the Preidential award from India’
Preident Prana Mukherjee for their outtanding performance a an emploer of people
with diailitie, and in March 2014 the alo received a 2014 conomic Time Retail
Award for it focu on emploee diverit
KFC Thailand
KFC Thailand run a program called We Hear ver Dream, which provide KFC career
for the hearing-impaired. The firt peciall-aled KFC retaurant in thi countr wa
opened in 2012. The team intalled new machine, equipment and a pecial
management tem. Hearing-impaired aociate were extenivel trained on order-
taking procedure and undertanding cutomer preference. Other team memer
working at the ame location received training in communicating with the hearing-
impaired to ait them a needed when providing ervice. Hearing-impaired team
memer receive the ame compenation and career growth opportunitie a other in
imilar role in the organization. Toda, Thailand ha three retaurant operated 
peciall-aled aociate.
KFC Pakitan2KFC Pakitan’ peciall-aled retaurant program i called, ‘Mitao hook’ meaning
‘eond Selling Chicken.’ In 2014, KFC Pakitan celerated the opening of it 8th
peciall-aled retaurant and the 8th ear of it program in operation.
KFC Pakitan have twice een recognized and awarded  The International uine
Award – The Stevie for their work in thi area.
Americana Franchie Group
Our Americana franchie group opened the firt peciall-aled KFC retaurant in 1994.
The retaurant in Cairo, gpt i completel operated  deaf people and feature
pecial ignage and ack-of-houe equipment to enure a great experience for oth cutomer and team memer. Americana expanded
to a econd retaurant in 2000 and the ucce of oth location ha led to a total of three retaurant acro the region.
KFC Spain
Spanih law require that 2.5% of an large corporation’ workforce mut e peciall-aled. KFC Spain ha gone aove and eond thi
requirement and currentl 3% of their workforce i peciall-aled, with plan to grow thi numer in the future to 10%.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Building People Capability
Goal: Lead the indutr with innovative know how uilding experience that drive and accelerate high performance in our team and our retaurant.
Our diverified, decentralized operation in 125 countrie and territorie demand an approach to uilding people capailit that i
cutomized and highl interactive. We trive to create program acro the world that unlock individual talent, inpire growth in each
other and foter oth uine and peronal development.
We eek to make learning, training and career development opportunitie acceile to a man of our aociate a poile wherever we
operate. We've made ignificant progre acro our gloal market and we are pleaed to hare ome of our reultYum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Yum! University
Yum! Univerit i the Compan’ center for worldwide learning and development,
offering coure and program that are delivered in variou format and deigned to
teach kill and ehavior that uild the capailit of aove-retaurant leader. Our
traditional and virtual claroom are forum where we can uild new kill, hare et
practice, develop relationhip and learn together in a one-tem wa acro all
diviion.
Yum! Univerit focue on developing three core area that are important to our
ucce:
Culture xcellence
Leaderhip xcellence
ducational and Functional xcellence
A a center of excellence for learning content and deign, Yum! Univerit partner with diviion training team to offer program and
coure in market around the world, uch a Ruia, India, the United Kingdom and Singapore.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Culture Excellence
We foter a recognition-driven, gloal culture that focue on going for reakthrough. Our goal i to attract, develop and retain our
aociate ecaue of the invetment we make in them. A ke mean to upporting our culture i Yum! Univerit, which help enure
everone live the How We Win Together2 principle and maintain a mindet to achieve reakthrough reult ever da in ever piece of
Yum!.
Achieving reakthrough Reult
Achieving reakthrough Reult (AR)i a core development coure
that provide aociate, primaril new hire, with tool and concept
aimed at high performance which we call “Going for reakthrough.”
The tool are categorized into Intentionalit, Thinking and Action and
incorporate peronal torie from our enior leader.
Thi coure i deigned to enale learner to:uild high intentionalit to create focu and drive
reakthrough reult
Ue reakthrough thinking tool to achieve tep-change
Take old action to achieve reakthrough reult
The program ha een ver well received around the world, and we continue to reinforce the tool and ehavior of AR in our procee
and communication o it ta ingrained in our culture. To date, mot of our emploee, and man franchiee and their team, have
gone through AR training and, a new leader join our tem, AR i a tandard practice for their on-oarding program.
Taking People with You Training Program
The organization continue to enefit from David Novak’ Taking People With You (TPWY)
training, which wa delivered  Yum! Univerit a eLearning module in 2012. The module
made it poile to deliver TPWY leaderhip training to ever Retaurant General Manager (RGM)
in the tem for the firt time ever. RGM around the world have een demontrale peronal and
profeional growth through TPWY. Retaurant have een etter cutomer rating, higher
operational efficienc, and an increae in aociate morale aed on a culture driven 
recognition and authenticit.
The powerful leaderhip principle are not onl foundational at Yum!, ut alo eing hared with
communitie throughout the world. The training ha een recognized with award from Chief
Learning Officer (CLO) Magazine and randon Hall Group.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Leadership Excellence
Our philooph at Yum! i that the Retaurant General Manager (RGM) i our No. 1 leader, and each
diviion put coniderale effort into developing RGM who are not onl expert in how we operate
our retaurant, ut alo people leader who can create an environment where our retaurant team
reach their et performance and deliver reakthrough reult. Our diviion implement training
program deigned to provide a progreion path for all emploee—from Shift Supervior and
RGM to Retaurant Support Center (RSC) taff—that include oth hard and oft kill development.
RGM #1 in Action
Yum! Univerit Around the World
The Yum! Univerit team adopted the challenge of how to cacade David Novak’ Taking People With You program gloall to more than
41,000 RGM and aove tore leader. A trateg wa created to encompa the gloal market  tranlating the 14 module of the
program into 11 language and making each module dnamic, interactive, and related to each RGM. The concept from each chapter of
the ook were developed into 20 to 30-minute e-Learning module that the learner complete to expand their undertanding of the
pecific chapter and how the can take action uing the concept in their part of the organization. Deorah, an RGM of KFC in Africa, wa
named RGM of the Year after he implemented the principle in Taking People With You.
“A I took m journe on the [Taking People With You] module, I wa atounded a to
how it had helped me to trengthen m goal and enhance m leaderhip kill,”
Deorah aid. “We have alo literall taken people with u. We have developed two
[retaurant aociate] into upervior poition, who are performing exceptionall, and
a upervior into an [area manager] poition.”
Yum! China
Yum! China i the larget retaurant compan in China and a ignificant part of Yum!’
overall growth trateg. Yum! China open more than 700 retaurant annuall. To keep
up with that intene demand, Yum! China mut recruit 8,000 management trainee each
ear in China’ highl competitive talent market. Yum! China intituted Whampoa
Academ, which offer clear and rapid career growth for recruit who are highl qualified
with impreive educational ackground, ut lack work experience and retaurant
experience. Whampoa Academ train thee aociate to e Retaurant General
Manager within a hort period of time: 3-3.5 ear on average.
Whampoa Academ’ Value Propoition:Groom managerial talent within 4 ear
Structured fotering program
Develop through a clear career path
Nourihed  a upportive culture
 the end of 2014, more than 25,000 operation team memer were in Whampoa Academ and had received nearl 506,912 hour of
learning.
In 2014, Yum! China wa elected to receive an Aociation in Talent Development (ATD) xcellence in Practice Award in the
Organizational Learning and Development categor. The award recognize exemplar practice in workplace learning and talent
development. Thi ear, there were more than 125 entrie in ten categorie.
Taco ell U.S.
Taco ell find great value in inveting in developing not onl the technical kill of
retaurant emploee, ut leaderhip kill a well. Through thi, program are eing
created and teted to teach and enhance the leaderhip kill of Shift Lead, Retaurant
General Manager (RGM) and Area Coache.
The firt program, “theMark” i deigned for RGM, and it ha een developed a a
journe of peronal development and profeional tranformation. Thi program i
advanced learning that i intended to take an RGM and their retaurant to the next level
of performance. Held in Irvine, CA, at the Taco ell Retaurant Support Center, theMark
experience provide a facilitated proce to invetigate RGM’ growth and viion a
leader, and help them develop a culture in their retaurant that ha their peronal
tamp…their “mark”!
In 2014, ix eion were held and, ince it inception, approximatel 800 RGM have completed the program. An additional ix eion
are cheduled for 2015. Taco ell ha meaured that RGM turnover i ignificantl lower, under 9%, in retaurant where the RGM ha
attended theMark, compared to the national average of 35%. RGM who have gone through theMark have made poitive change in their
retaurant including developing plan to reach their goal, recognizing and celerating team memer, and giving ack to their local
communitie.
For Area Coache, a program called The Quet, a tranformative leaderhip development experience, had it firt pilot in Octoer 2014.
Thi firt pilot had 32 participant and a eta pilot along with three additional eion are cheduled in 2015. One participant of the pilot
aid thi of The Quet, “for the Area Coache that do not have a lot of formal leaderhip training, thi cla i a mut…and for thoe Area
Coache with lot of leaderhip training thi cla will reall help ou ring it all together and focu on our Quet to e eing the et
leader ou can e.”
Additional leaderhip development program are currentl in their infanc and will e teted and enhanced in 2015. Thee include Shift
Cla for Shift Lead and Hearttle for RGM.
KFC U.S.
The RGM Ketone cla wa implemented in 2013  KFC U.S. and continued throughout 2014 in upport of RGM #1. It provide focued
learning on leaderhip kill, covering topic uch a mindet, trut, time management, change management, conflict, coaching and
recognition. During the four-da cla, held at the KFC Retaurant Support Center in Louiville, KY, the RGM have the opportunit to
hear from ome of KFC’ executive leaderhip team. The RGM in the Ketone cla alo tour the Food Innovation Team kitchen, where
the learn how product are developed, give feedack on current product, and offer idea for new product.
Pizza Hut KoreaPizza Hut Korea i focued on uilding people capailit at the tore level. In 2014, the Rapid Development Program (RDP) wa launched.
The ix-month training program develop capailitie for high potential Aitance General Manager who are on track to ecome
Retaurant General Manger candidate. Additionall, Pizza Hut Korea produce a team memer magazine focued on ringing the larger
Yum! culture to life in the retaurant.
KFC UK
‘Retaurant General Manager Leaderhip xcellence’ i a leaderhip development program deigned pecificall for Retaurant Manager.
It give them the tool, practice and confidence to have peronal and uine impact a a leader at KFC. It enale them to uild know
how, reflect on and practice leaderhip kill in order that the drive leaderhip in their retaurant, retain and develop talent and ring
our culture to life in their retaurant. The workhop ue the How We Lead competencie a a framework. The firt cohort tarted in
Octoer 2014 and conit of 25 franchie and equit Retaurant Manager.
Aove-Retaurant Leaderhip Development
Leaderhip for aove retaurant leader at our Retaurant Support Center i a focu a well.
Gloal Leaderhip Program
Yum! Univerit launched How We Lead in 2014, adding to the two leaderhip development program implemented in 2013, driving
people capailit and inveting in future leader. The How We Lead, merging Talent and Leaderhip Accel program are part of a
roader leaderhip framework with clearl defined training path acro all diviion for the aove-retaurant population.
The leaderhip development program pan diviion and function, and are heading into 2015 with great momentum:merging Talent for Human Reource
Leaderhip Accel Thailand
Leaderhip Accel UK & urope
Leaderhip Accel North America
How We Lead Taco ell
How We Lead UK (two group)
Thee offering have afforded more than 250 leader acro Yum! with the opportunit to advance their profeional development while
trengthening the leaderhip pipeline to upport our organization’ projected uine growth.
Promoting Gloal Moilit
Pizza Hut US i focued on developing emploee around the world, with over 20 gloal people move in 2014. Yum! and Pizza Hut trive
to create a world cla, integrated, eail undertood gloal moilit program to move and develop talent that:
nale and upport long-term uine ucce
Help get the right peron in the right jo in the right wa
Provide an experience that reinforce our culture
When ou emark on an international aignment with Pizza Hut and Yum!, ou are emarking on an adventure, which will provide ou
with:
A unique peronal, profeional and cultural experience;
Career growth and development; and
Further undertanding of our gloal uine and it readth.
Pizza Hut UKPizza Hut UK aociate have the opportunit to development their kill in leaderhip, trade, peronal growth, ideation and cultural
undertanding a a part of Yum! Univerit. Coure include the London uine Forum, inightful event that cover a range of uine
iue preented  internationall renowned peaker, Induction, a coure led  the Leaderhip Team that take new tarter through the
uine goal introducing them to each functional team and the function role in driving our compan trateg, and Leaderhip Impact,
a coure deigned to trengthen our thinking and ehavioral tle in order to promote leaderhip effectivene. The program ue
Human Snergitic ‘Life Stle Inventor’ (LSI).
Pizza Hut Aia
In Singapore, Pizza Hut Aia launched the Yum! Aia Internhip xperience in partnerhip with four local univeritie. The program i
deigned to e oth a rand uilder for Yum! career and a talent pipeline for future recruitment need, giving oung talent oth the
opportunit to develop their career and ecome Pizza Hut rand amaador. Four tudent from the 2014 pilot emeter joined the
Pizza Hut team.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Educational and Functional Excellence
Acro Yum!, we upport our people in continuing their education from our Retaurant General Manager (RGM) and team memer to
our Retaurant Support Center aociate. We make availale a range of development and training opportunitie through partnerhip
and accreditation that offer univerit education. Thee invetment are aimed at improving the qualit of life for Yum! emploee,
particularl RGM, and providing added value to working in one of our retaurant.
The KFC-UK & Ireland team introduced a three-ear uine Management coure in a partnerhip with De Montfort Univerit
Leiceter (DMU). The degree i pecificall deigned for the market’ Retaurant General Manager (RGM) and Area Coache (AC),
comining exiting KFC training with lecture and workhop from DMU’ uine Management degree program. The firt group of
RGM egan the program in Januar 2013 and in 2014 the econd cohort of 17 RGM and AC egan the program in April. Thee tudent
received half of their univerit fee paid for  KFC a well a paid time off for lecture, travel and accommodation expene. Sixt RGM
and AC will participate in the program over the next five ear. The uine alo run a ucceful award winning Apprenticehip
Program offering Level Two and Three Apprenticehip in Hopitalit to Retaurant mploee. In 2014, there were 580 Apprentice ear
to date acro Level 2 & 3 and ince the tart of the program have had 400 ucceful graduate.
Yum! Ruia ha adopted Plekhanov Univerit' econom training a part of it tandard RGM training. On their wa to receiving a
Plekhanov Univerit diploma, trainee (from hift manager to RGM) take a comination of Yum! Univerit Ruia training and
Plekhanov coure. Their old goal i for 100 percent of RGM in their market to e certified  the Yum!-Plekhanov retaurant
management program  2015.
In KFC Autralia, we’ve een recognized a a Regitered Training Provider  the Autralian government for more than a decade.
Similar to our Apprenticehip Program in the United Kingdom, , thi program provide emploee with valuale life kill training while
at the ame time providing training to do their jo in our retaurant. On completion of the coure, emploee receive a Nationall
Recognized Qualification.
The alo offer to their Retaurant Support Centre emploee and Retaurant Manager an excluive Mater of Retail Management, a
Mater of uine Adminitration (MA) program developed pecificall for them in partnerhip with the Univerit of Wollongong’
Sdne uine School. Student enefit from a 20% fee dicount due to the partnerhip and can alo appl for KFC ducation Aitance
which include a comination of monetar upport and paid time off for lecture and exam. Ten graduate emploee have completed the
program o far.
The Americana franchie group in the Middle at offer accreditation for it comprehenive training program. In a program that
lend practical on-the-jo retaurant experience and training with claroom lecture, team memer can earn a diploma from a
technical econdar chool, hift upervior can work toward an advanced diploma from a technical college, and aitant retaurant
manager can earn a univerit degree in Retaurant Operation and Management.
Taco ell U.S. offer a numer of program to help emploee achieve their education goal oth at the high chool and college level.
The graduate high chool program i a partnerhip with Career Online High School, which allow emploee to take online coure to
earn their high chool diploma. Through thi program, emploee can appl an previou credit earned while in high chool and can
complete the entire program online. The program cot $1,295 and Taco ell grant up to 100 cholarhip in thi amount to emploee
each ear.For emploee eeking to earn a college degree, Taco ell ha partnered with Yum! Univerit and xcelior College, an accredited
nonprofit intitution. The partnerhip with xcelior College provide Taco ell emploee and their immediate famil the opportunit to
earn a college degree through xcelior College at a 40 percent dicount on ook and tuition. Further, emploee can earn up to 48 of
their required credit  completing retaurant on-the-jo training. Currentl, jut over 200 tudent have taken advantage of the
graduate college program with 71 enrolled in coure, 90 regitered for the program, and 50 in the regitration proce.
In an effort to make education opportunitie acceile to emploee, Taco ell i piloting a General ducational Development (GD)
program in earl 2015. Thi program will provide online tet preparation for the GD or equivalent High School quivalenc Tet (HST).
After the preparation i completed, tudent will receive a voucher to cover the cot of taking the GD or HST.
Additionall, Taco ell U.S. award approximatel $120,000 annuall in cholarhip fund through the Glen ell Scholarhip, named for
the rand’ founder. ach ear, Taco ell grant etween 65 and 70 of the $1,000 and $2,000 cholarhip to hourl emploee enrolled in
2-ear or 4-ear degree program repectivel.
The Kentuck Fried Chicken Foundation i helping team memer turn their educational dream into realit with it new RACH
HIGH™ – High School quivalenc Program. The Foundation, an independent non-profit organization, i covering preparation and exam
cot for hourl team memer at participating KFC US retaurant, a well a peronall guiding them through the entire proce. With
the 2014 revamp of the GD® – which ha een the traditional wa to ae if an adult ha the knowledge necear to take the next
critical tep in hi or her educational career – and the introduction of the HiSet® and TASC™ exam in place of the GD in ome tate,
the KFC Foundation aw an opportunit to ait retaurant Team Memer acro the countr who are read to accomplih their
educational and career goal.  not onl covering 100 percent of cot, ut alo providing peronal guidance and encouragement, the
Foundation i committed to helping recipient reach the next level. RACH HIGH™ i offered ear-round to all team memer and hift
upervior who haven’t graduated from high chool and meet elect minimum emploment criteria. The KFC Foundation i trul excited
aout upporting aociate who are read to reach the next level!
In the U.S., Yum! provide eligile alaried aociate with tuition reimurement, up to a maximum of $5,250 in a calendar ear, for
qualified undergraduate and graduate coure taken toward a jo-related degree program at an accredited college or univerit. We alo
award over $500,000 in cholarhip annuall through our And Pearon Scholarhip Program, etalihed in memor of our founding
Chairman. In 2014, we awarded 230 cholarhip for $537,500. Since implementing the cholarhip program in 2003, we have awarded
almot 2,500 cholarhip worth $5,604,500 to aociate and their legal dependent.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Investing in Technology to Build People Capability
Yumnet and Yammer
In 2014, Yum! introduced a gloal platform for communication and collaoration called
YumNet. Currentl, YumNet i onl availale to aove-retaurant emploee in all
diviion, ut expanion to field and retaurant emploee i eing explored. YumNet
and Yammer, YumNet’ internal ocial networking tool, allow people to connect, hare
content and collaorate gloall in wa the couldn’t efore. In it firt ix month,
Yammer had more than 50 percent adoption, which exceeded indutr tandard.
Yum! arn Top Indutr Honor for Learning Technolog
We were recentl recognized for leading the wa in learning innovation, earning the 2014 xcellence in Practice Award from CorpU for
Learning Technologie. Our Yum! Univerit Learning Technolog Team lead reakthrough innovation in it gloal work with
technologie uch a Learning Zone, Centra Saa Meeting and moile platform. Learning Zone reache more than 708,000 aociate
worldwide and had a record in Ma 2014 with nearl 1.4 million coure completion. In total, more than 35 million coure have een
completed in Learning Zone over the pat three ear.The CorpU Award honor corporate, non-profit and governmental learning
organization that improve uine and emploee performance. Pat winner of the CorpU Learning Technologie award include
Microoft, Papal, HP and oeing.
Our learning and development trateg hinge on our ailit to implement a gloal learning technologie platform. Developing and
leveraging a gloal technolog platform ha improved efficienc and reach for the learning function and tranformed the wa people
learn. Thi one-tem approach ha improved conitenc, reduced paper and wate, enure training i timel and allow manager to
track and meaure training in a more reliale, le time-conuming wa.
Retaurant that have implemented the gloal learning technolog have demontrated lower turnover and higher cutomer atifaction.
Thi i a huge impact for our uine that ha helped drive ucce throughout the organization.
High-Tech Len Innovating KFC Retaurant Training
A great example of technolog eing ued for our retaurant wa recentl
explored when KFC U.S. had a viion to condene an 80-page intruction
manual into an interactive video that would pla on a creen the ize of a
fingerprint. And the did jut that  developing a Google Gla platform to
explore how team memer train and repond to the fat-changing retaurant
environment. It' till too earl to tell how adoption of Google Gla might e
integrated within KFC retaurant, ut it’ certainl erving a a learning tool
and howcaing how to elevate training through technolog.
Following in KFC’ foottep, Taco ell U.S. partnered with the technolog
compan Interapt and Google to develop a pilot program for the ue of Google
Gla in the retaurant in 2014. The pilot egin in Januar 2015 with ten retaurant. ach one will e provided Google Gla in place of
the uual training material for new food initiative. Software will e loaded on Gla that will teach and tet team memer how to uild
new menu item right on the line, ringing on-the-jo training to a new level.Further, Taco ell i currentl teting uing talet for Area Coache to complete their Succe Routine on a digital platform. The Area
Coache in the tet have een provided a talet and training on how complete their routine on the talet during their retaurant viit.
Thi program aim to not onl make the live of Area Coache eaier, ut alo find effective ue of current technolog in the retaurant.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Associate Wellbeing
Goal: uild welleing and energ program to give our aociate and their familie tool and program to ta health and enjo virant live.
Yum! elieve that for aociate to achieve reakthrough reult where the work, live and pla, the need maximum nerg. Our
nerg program focu on uilding holitic welleing through four ke pillar:
xercie
Ret
Perpective
Nutrition
The organization upport uine unit around the world in achieving thee ojective  providing et practice toolkit to implement
program in local market, a well a opportunitie to engage in gloal programming. One uch opportunit in 2014 wa the Gloal
Corporate Challenge. See elow for the reult achieved  the participating team acro the gloe!nerg program offered var widel  each countr ut there are commonalitie. Common nerg offering include:
Health aement and creening
Walking and weight lo challenge
Organized team port and communit activitie/walk
Fitne Clae
Health nack and water
See the map elow for a highlight of nerg program offered acro the worldA few ke 2014 highlight include:
Taco ell U.S. expanded their nerg program to include Virgin Health Mile in 2014 for their aociate working in the
retaurant upport center a well a their Retaurant General Manager. Thi program comine the et of ocial,
gamification, reward, wearale fitne device and moile app to help emploee make health, long-lating ehavior
change acro all apect of their live. The reult? A etter total qualit of life for our emploee; more energ at home and at
work! The firt ear had 35% participation and participant reported:62% increaed activit level
74% changed ehavior due to program
38% feel more productive
Ruia had a large ucce with the Gloal Corporate Challenge and the alo had a great time increaing nerg for everone
through footall team, oga leon, health aement, relaxation room at headquarter, and fun on ite exercie in the
retaurant.
The Netherland KFC team won firt place in the Zandvoort Circuit run, a Citrun and footall (occer) competition. In
addition to port, the alo offer a compan doctor to help emploee get health and ack to work!
In the UK, retaurant emploee and manager participate in motivation eion, health creening and coaching around
wellne and lifetle through the Welleing Programme - MWelleing Participant reported that the made etter choice to
take care of themelve, felt etter aout life and felt etter aout working for our compan. Quarterl welleing challenge are
in effect for Retaurant General Manager to help increae productivit for them and their team memer. mploee are aloale to acce da-to-da guidance from an online welleing tool, which incorporate a quetionnaire that aee variou
apect of their welleing including leep, tre, nutrition and exercie to help them undertand their current tate and give
advice on practical change that the can make to improve their health and welleing going forward.
KFC Autralia launched their Wellne Initiative, nerg to Win, to help emploee learn more aout health living. Through
a erie of online training model, the initiative help emploee improve their work life alance, providing wellne
aement and tip on health eating.
A part of the initiative, emploee are alo offered free acce to healthcare provider who creen for cardiovacular iue and
diaete. It i currentl made availale to Retaurant Support Centre mploee and Retaurant General Manager at
approximatel 150 compan-owned tore around Autralia and the are exploring the option to expand the program to
Aitant Store Manager and Franchiee.In 2014 KFC Canada alo launched their verion of nerg to Win. Their wellne trateg i framed around Nourihment,
Movement and alance. In 2014 the tarted off with the Gloal Corporate Challenge where 7 team and 49 people participated
in a walking challenge – approximatel half the RSC. A part of nerg to Win the alo have regular on ite maage, Health
and Wellne Clinic, including an Annual Health and Wellne Fair, and information eion on how to cope with tre.
The alo provide reimurement of gm memerhip fee, fitne clae, port program and weight lo program under
thi program.Finall, the nergize for Life (FL) program wa created for Yum! aociate with our unique culture in mind. The pecific
exercie and nutrition component are rought to life in onite group training eion that create accountailit and deliver
conitent reult. In 2012, FL wa expanded to all U.S. rand corporate headquarter and in 2013 and 2014, FL egan eing
teted in international market.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Our Community
We are a compan with a Huge Heart and we elieve our greatet contriution a a gloal
compan i in making food acceile to the le fortunate. We invet in giving ack to the
communitie in which we work and live, making a poitive difference in the live of our
cutomer, aociate, franchiee and their familie.
We deliver on our commitment  focuing on thee ke area:
World Hunger Relief
Volunteerim
Communit ngagement
HarvetYum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
World Hunger Relief
Goal: Moilize our cutomer, aociate, franchiee and their familie to alleviate hunger through awarene, volunteerim and fundraiing.
A we approached our 10th anniverar a a Compan in 2007, we decided to align our
tem around a gloal crii that we were well poitioned to addre–hunger relief.
Yum! and our rand had a longtanding commitment to hunger relief in the U.S.
through our Harvet program, which contriute on average 10 million pound of food
annuall to more than 3,000 nonprofit organization acro the countr and now with
805 million people in the world facing hunger and malnutrition, we had an opportunit
to create a gloal movement to addre the world’ mot olvale prolem.
In Octoer 2007, our aociate, franchiee and upplier in more than 100 countrie
joined force to ring awarene and action to thi gloal crii a we launched World
Hunger Relief  (WHR)–an annual initiative leveraging the power of our gloal
retaurant tem to addre hunger through awarene, volunteerim and fundraiing.
Thi gloal movement i now the world' larget private ector hunger relief effort in
hitor enefiting the United Nation World Food Programme (WFP) . WFP i the world' larget humanitarian agenc fighting
hunger worldwide, feeding on average more than 90 million people in over 70 countrie each ear.
The movement i primaril focued on engaging our aociate, franchiee and
conumer in our over 41,000 retaurant around the gloe to end world hunger 
contriuting mone to help feed eneficiarie of the WFP. Through the ue of retaurant
point of purchae material, roadcat, print and online advertiing and pulic ervice
announcement featuring our gloal pokeperon and WFP amaador, Chritina
Aguilera, the campaign ha grown ear over ear with Yum! eing WFP' larget corporate
donor and partner.
The mone raied for the WFP i given a unretricted fund to e ued for WFP' greatet
need around the gloe, allowing WFP the flexiilit to get food and reource where the are mot needed. A a part of our commitment
to enuring 100% of the conumer and aociate fund donated are ued  WFP for feeding people and the related program, the Yum!
Foundation contriute $2 million annuall to help the WFP manage the expene aociated with our gloal campaign.Chritina Aguilera received the firt ever Muhammad Ali Humanitarian of the Year Award for her work to end gloal
hunger in her role a gloal pokeperon for Yum! rand World Hunger Relief and a an “Amaador Againt Hunger”
for the United Nation World Food Programme.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
World Hunger Relief Results
For the pat eight ear the World Hunger Relief campaign ha leveraged the power of
more than 41,000 retaurant around the world, parking a gloal movement to end
hunger and generating an overwhelming outpouring of upport from million of
cutomer, emploee, franchiee and their familie. To date, the World Hunger Relief
movement ha delivered:
Awarene
More than four illion worldwide impreion were made in 2014. Approximate value of
nearl $60 million annuall in pulic ervice announcement, advertiing, pulic
relation, we-aed communication and in-retaurant promotional material.
Fundraiing
Yum! ha donated the following to WFP and other hunger relief agencie:
Year Fund Meal
2014: $40 million 160 million
2013: $37 million 148 million
2012: $33 million 132 million
2011: $30 million 120 million
2010: $24.5 million 98 million
2009: $22.5 million 90 million
2008: $20 million 80 million
2007: $16 million 64 million
TOTAL RAISD SINC 2007: $600 MILLION/NARLY 2.4 ILLION MALS/45 COUNTRIS NFITING FROM WHRIn eight ear of WHR, the impact of the program ha een atounding, providing nearl 2.4 illion meal to WFP operation and other
hunger relief agencie in countrie of greatet need with an emphai on School Feeding program . Fund raied  our team alo
upport emergenc operation  and mother-child health and nutrition program . In total, WHR upport ha provided much-needed
food for million of eneficiarie in more than 45 countrie. Scroll over the map elow to ee countrie that have received funding for
meal ince 2007 .
On average $0.25 provide one meal.
Countrie receiving funding and food a a reult of the World Hunger Relief campaign*
*Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
World Hunger Relief Recognition
2014:
WHR i Named Finalit for Gloal Campaign of the Year and Caue-Related Campaign
of the Year in PR Week.
WHR Win Gloal SAR award – the Gloal SAR Award are preented to the 50
et PR Campaign in the World.
ulldog CSR Award recognize WHR for excellence in communication, corporate
ocial reponiilit, reputation and utainailit program.
Pulicit Clu of Chicago Golden Trumpet Award Name WHR a Finalit in the International Communication – highet
recognition in the pulic relation indutr and given to the et corporate and nonprofit agencie for the work the produce.
WHR recognized with Gloal SAR 50 et PR Campaign Award, which mean that out of more than 5,000 entrie, WHR wa
in the top 1%.
2013:
WHR wa alo recognized with FOUR award from ulldog CSR — et Corporate/Non-profit Partnerhip, et Charitale
Giving Campaign, et CSR Campaign for Organization Over $5 illion in Revenue and et Media Relation Campaign.
WHR Named Finalit for Caue Marketing Halo Award – Yum! rand and The World Food Programme are one of four to
advance in the et meage-focued campaign categor, recognizing uinee that ue it reource to hare a caue’
meage
Honorale Mention for World Hunger Relief in the PSA categor – PR New’ Platinum PR Award alute the ear’ mot
outtanding communication initiative and program in the highl competitive and dnamic PR arena
Honorale Mention for World Hunger Relief in the Pulic Affair categor – PR New’ Platinum PR Award alute the ear’
mot outtanding communication initiative and program in the highl competitive and dnamic PR arena
IAC Gold Quill Award– The IAC Gold Quill award are an international mol of excellence in trategic communication
that recognize mart thinking, flawle execution and proven reult. World Hunger Relief received a Merit award in the
Corporate Social Reponiilit categor
2012:
League of American Communication Profeional Magellan award: #8 in Top 50 2012 Communication Campaign; Gold
Award for xcellence
PR New CSR Award – Honorale Mention for Caue randing Campaign, World Hunger Relief
SAR Award – Gold Finalit, Food Service categor for World Hunger Relief
The World Food Program USA and the U.S. Department of State - honored
David Novak and Chritina Aguilera with the George McGovern Leaderhip
Award WFP’ top humanitarian award
2011:
League of American Communication Profeional Magellan award: Silver
Award for Corporate/Organizational Communication categor; #28 in Top 50 2011 Communication Campaign (out of 375entrie).
PRSA Landmark of xcellence Award – Merit Award: Overall Communication Program; Award of xcellence: New
Media/Video-Internal Video; Merit Award: New Media/Video; Merit Award: New Media/Video-Image, Promotional
Marketing.
PRSA Skline Award – 2011 PRSA Chicago Skline, Award of xcellence, xternal PR: World Hunger Relief
SAR Award – Gold nomination, xternal PR Corporate Social Reponiilit categor
American Chamer of Commerce Star of Africa Award; Gold Award for Add Hope
2010:
League of Communication Profeional - Winner - Magellan Award for Communit Relation: Mot Creative Campaign; #9
in Top 50 2010 Communication Campaign (out of 379 entrie); Gold Award for xcellence
United Nation World Food Programme - Partner of the Year
PR Week - Winner - Caue-Related Campaign of the Year
2009:
PR New’ Nonprofit PR Award - Finalit for Nonprofit/Corporate categor
PR Week Award - Winner for Caue-Related Campaign of the Year
Herme Creative Award - Platinum Winner
PRSA Skline Award - Merit Award for the Categor vent & Oervance, More than 7 Da
PRSA ronze Anvil Award of Commendation - Winner for Digital Pre Kit Categor
2008:
PR New CSR - Honorale mention, “Overall Leader in CSR Practice: Corporation with more than 25,000 emploee”
2007:
IAC Gold Quill - Merit Award in uine Communication Categor
PR New CSR - Finalit in the Media Relation Categor
IPRA 2008 Golden World Award - Winner, Corporate Social Reponiilit Categor
SAR Award - Gold Winner, uine and Societ, Corporate Social Reponiilit Categor
PRSA Skline Award - Skline Award Winner, Pulic Service/PartnerhipYum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
WHR Around The World
Our team around the gloe are hard at work uilding rand with purpoe. World Hunger Relief i an initiative that unite our tem
around a common caue. The ucce of the movement i centered around the wa our team take it and make it their own—from
uniquel randed campaign like Pizza Hut’ Deliver Hope or KFC South Africa’ Add Hope to da of giving, team memer car wahe
and other emploee led activitie to raie awarene and fund to help end hunger.
World Food Da – Fill the Red Cup
On World Food Da, Oct. 16, 2014, KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco ell and Yum! aociate around the world rallied together to fill the red cup
for World Hunger Relief, raiing US $100,000 in jut 24 hour. From donating $5 to feed 20 children, hoting raffle, ilent auction and
much more, the donation collected provided 400,000 meal to hungr children in partnerhip with the World Food Programme.   
Read elow to learn aout ome of the randed campaign around the world or click here to ee ome of our team in action. 
Autralia – Let’ nd Hunger
Autralia’ KFC and Pizza Hut retaurant have raied more than US $5.4 million for the World Food Programme. In 2014, the achieved
reakthrough reult, raiing more than US $700,000. The retaurant held a variet of fundraiing activitie, from a cricket event to
talent how, car wahe, ake ale and in-tore competition. Through in-retaurant promotion a well a Faceook and other digital
effort, the World Hunger Relief campaign continue to e a ucce ear after ear.
In Januar 2015, ix team memer from the highet performing retaurant will viit the communitie in Lao to experience how World
Hunger Relief fund are helping to provide meal. Check out the video elow to ee how KFC and Pizza Hut Autralia are aving live.
Pizza Hut Gloal – Deliver Hope
Deliver Hope i Pizza Hut’ call to action to encourage our conumer and Pizza Hut aociate worldwide to help other through the
compan’ three philanthropic pillar: children’ literac, World Hunger Relief and involvement in local communit.
During the 2014 World Hunger Relief campaign, Pizza Hut cutomer Delivered Hope  making donation to the World Food Programme
while dining in retaurant and when ordering online through the Deliver Hope digital campaign. Additionall, our Pizza Hut retaurant
team, franchiee and corporate emploee around the world organized event at the local level to fundraie  hoting live auction,
cricket game, car wahe and group walk/run. In Canada, Pizza Hut took their team to the frontline in cuador to help the World Food
Programme put the donation into action.
KFC South Africa – Add Hope
A part of it Add Hope effort, KFC South Africa facilitated it “31 Da of Hope" campaign, which jut during the month of Octoer 2014
raied US $340,000 for hunger relief. The campaign created a erie of video featuring children who receive WFP meal. ach video
include a child explaining what he or he hope to achieve in life, a heart-warming wa to emphaize the importance of nutritiou meal
for growth, development and ucce.
An Add Hope communit partner, aid the program i eential to hi organization' work. "The funding we get for our feeding program
from Add Hope make it poile for u to give thouand of children a etter tart in life  enuring the have food in their tummie, o
we can focu on other need uch a education, health and infratructure development. Add Hope provide u with around 30 percent ofour funding, and thi give u a wa to help the children achieve their dream." .
Add Hope’ 2014 campaign raied US $4.8 million, which enaled KFC to help feed 70,000 South
African children each da.
German – at Together, Share Together
Under the motto “at Together, Share Together”, KFC German donated 10 cent to the
World Hunger Relief campaign for ever order taken in participating KFC retaurant
during Octoer 2014. Guet could give donation at the till of all KFC retaurant and
online donation could alo e made on the KFC campaign weite. The donation
collected are hared etween the two charitale organization upported  the
campaign: the World Food Programme and the undeverand Deutche Tafel e.V., the
German volunteer food ank federation, a national partner.
In it econd ear of World Hunger Relief, KFC German collected more than US
$118,000, which i equivalent to providing 472,000 meal to hungr children around the
world.
France – Sharing A Huge Heart
For the third conecutive ear, KFC France i howing that the are a compan with a Grand
Coeur–or Huge Heart–through a partnerhip with France’ et-loved charit, Le Retaurantdu Coeur . KFC France, through the KFC Foundation created in 2012, partnered with the charitale
organization to launch a campaign to feed need familie.
In 2014, KFC France raied US $342,000 for the charit during it three week campaign. KFC alo
launched a volunteer program for it Retaurant Support Center emploee; ever week two
emploee donated a half da at a food ditriution center to help ditriute food product.
Additionall and for the third conecutive ear, 50 KFC aociate and franchie volunteer
participated in a nationwide food drive held in upermarket to collect canned good and hgiene
product. Moreover, KFC France' Volunteer for Hope effort, Product xcellence and Human
Reource team from the rand' Retaurant Support Center will offer their profeional expertie in the area of purchaing and e-
learning tool development for Le Retaurant du Coeur taff and volunteer.
KFC U.S. – Recipe For Hope
Colonel Harland Sander' ecret recipe to a well-lived life included giving ack to the communit and helping thoe in need. KFC U.S.
honor hi legac  raiing mone to feed the hungr through it annual in-retaurant Recipe for Hope fundraiing campaign for the
World Food Programme. Retaurant acro the nation participate with the goal to each raie $1,000 per retaurant. Man team alohare their achievement with guet  proudl howcaing Recipe for Hope donation card
repreenting the numer of donation collected.
In 2014, KFC alo teamed up with Feeding America, the nation’ larget dometic hunger-relief
organization, for it #FillUpForGood campaign. Fan were aked to pot a picture or video of a KFC
$5 Fill Up meal on ocial media with the hahtag #FillUpForGood, and KFC promied to donate five
meal for each pot. In the end, one million meal were donated to local communitie through
Feeding America!
Latin America & Carriean
Franchiee, Comida pecializada teamed with Pizza Hut and KFC to fight and prevent child
malnutrition in the pooret and mot vulnerale municipalitie of the countr. Through the
upport of the World Food Programme, the were ale to reach the communit of Cononlaca where the donated food to the
communit. For three conecutive ear, the have raied more than US $70,000 and have helped reduce rate of malnutrition in children
under five ear old. Additionall, the have encouraged the communit of Cononlaca to engage in nutrition education and activitie to
aid in taking etter care of their children.
The LA&C team alo participated in a Hunger to Hope Da that involved walking 2,500 mile in recognition of ending world hunger. The
alo orted 20,639 pound for a total of 17,199 meal and 450 ackpack for their local communit.
Aia – Step Out, Stomp Hunger
KFC Malaia kicked off their campaign in Jul 2014, raiing more than US $500,000, which i the highet franchiee collection from KFC
and Pizza Hut. In Septemer, 60 KFC and Pizza Hut aociate pent an afternoon re-packing rice and donated undrie into mall carton
for ditriution to the need  the Singapore Food ank charit. Additionall, the annual World Hunger Relief Carnival rought together
aociate and their familie, upplier and franchiee to raie fund for the World Food Programme (WFP) and other hunger relief
agencie.
A part of their World Hunger Relief effort, franchiee attended a field viit to Camodia organized  WFP with ground participation
from KFC Camodia. The team aw firt-hand how the fund raied help enefit primar chool tudent under the WFP School Meal
program. The alo viited the home of the eneficiarie of WFP Scholarhip aimed at keeping children in chool and enaling
continuou education, and witneed the “Food for Aet” program where people received food in return for laor uch a making road.
Yum! China
Yum! China celerated a ucceful 2014 World Hunger Relief campaign, raiing nearl US $3 million through it KFC, Pizza Hut, Pizza
Hut Home Service and at Dawning retaurant effort, communit event and online donation.
The diviion made it campaign interactive and fun, hoting large cale event in 17 market citie to involve the communit in ending
hunger. Fundraiing effort included engaging with fan on donation channel including Tencent, Sina Weio and WeChat, raiing
awarene through ocial media channel WeChat and Weio and ending virtual thank ou card to cutomer who donated in-
retaurant, which could e hared on their ocial media profile.
The campaign wa awarded the “et CSR Cae” title from pulication Southern Weekl and generated 1,230 pre placement. Yum!
China alo hoted an international porting event with children who alo enefit from the diviion' hunger relief fundraiing.
Netherland – e a Stop Hunger HeroIn 2014, KFC Netherland initiated their World Hunger Relief campaign, named ‘KFC Stop Hunger
Heroe’. The campaign wa aed on the idea ‘A meal for a meal’. KFC Netherland encouraged
aociate and guet to donate during the month of Novemer. The campaign aked for a
donation of 20 eurocent to help top hunger. A donation of 20 eurocent i equivalent to a meal
for omeone in need.
KFC alo deigned a cool ‘Stop Hunger Hero’ tandee o donor could eternalize themelve a a
real Stop Hunger Hero. For ever Stop Hunger Hero picture poted on ocial media, KFC
Netherland donated one chool meal. KFC aociate alo participated in the Amterdam
Marathon and ran 8 km (5 mile) to collect fund for WFP. KFC Netherland raied US $45,000,
which i equal to providing 180,000 chool meal for WFP eneficiarie.
Yum! India – Hunger to Hope Kitchen
The Yum! India team demontrate their huge
heart and commitment to feeding the hungr
through in-retaurant fundraiing and creativel
engaging diviion leader and Retaurant Support
Center emploee. In upport of World Hunger
Relief 2014, Yum! India and ollwood
actor/celerit Sharman Johi joined force to
fight hunger at a “Hunger to Hope Kitchen” event
held in a New Delhi KFC retaurant. Proceed from
the retaurant' ale for the da were donated to
World Hunger Relief agencie.
Johi alo joined Yum! aociate at the Smile Foundation, a well-known non-governmental organization, where the enjoed a outh
dance performance. The Smile Foundation run a nutrition program that enefit more than 300,000 underprivileged children on the
ucontinent. Cutomer acro India are ver upportive of the caue and have help to raie fund for the World Food Programme and
other feeding program acro India to provide nutritiou meal to chool children.
United Kingdom – The Nut Challenge
In recognition of World Hunger Relief 2014, KFC team memer acro the United Kingdom engaged in fundraiing effort to upport the
World Food Programme, including the ‘Nut Challenge’ which i a 7km (4.3 mile) arm tle aault coure. The alo participated in
‘The Nightrider’ a 100km ccle around London and their ver own Kentuck Cup footall tournament. In 2014, the raied over US $1.8M
to feed hungr children around the world.
In addition to upporting the World Food Programme, UK Pizza Hut Deliver raied more than US $200,000 in upport of Children In
Need, a group of nonprofit charitie that provide children and oung people who are diadvantaged with health living and learning
opportunitie. A part of their volunteerim effort, Pizza Hut UK upported the ethwin Adventure Plaground  tranforming the
pace through painting and replanting the garden and pla area.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Volunteerism
Goal: e the world’ defining volunteer movement engaging emploee and franchiee ear-round to make an impact in local communitie, furthering our
miion to e the defining gloal compan that feed the world.
A the world’ larget retaurant compan, it i our privilege and reponiilit to give ack to the communitie where we live and work.
We upport our aociate' volunteer effort and encourage them to work with their upervior on volunteer opportunitie.
Volunteerim i a ke component of our World Hunger Relief initiative and ince 2007, 1.5 million of our aociate, franchiee and their
familie have volunteered million of hour to aid hunger relief effort in communitie worldwide.
With aociate around the world, we know that our team have the ailit to make an
impact on ke ocial iue in their local communitie. We want to recognize and reward
their effort to upport qualified nonprofit charitale organization. Through our gloal
Volunteer for Hope program, aociate are ale to make a lating impact in the live of
their partner charitie–and in their local communitie.
In 2014, Yum! rewarded our team memer and franchiee for their effort  awarding
140 grant worth US $220,000 to the partnering charit organization for team who
inpired u with their act of volunteerim. We are alo proud that the numer of
emploee and franchiee volunteer hour tracked through our gloal volunteerim program douled from 2013 to 2014 with more than
30,000 hour tracked thi ear.
Click here to ee our 2014 Huge Heart Champion Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Community Engagement
Goal: Demontrate our huge heart  giving ack to our local communitie through program partnerhip, ponorhip and caue-related marketing effort.
A a gloal food compan, we elieve that we can make the greatet contriution and impact  making food acceile to the le
fortunate in the world. We are in the uine of feeding people—whether it’ the illion of cutomer who viit our retaurant each
ear or thoe we feed through communit hunger relief initiative. In the U.S., we alo give ack with program that focu on college
cholarhip, reading incentive and mentoring at-rik teen.
We provide financial upport to charitie acro the world, and our 1.5 million aociate and our franchiee give to their local
communitie everda through meal, monetar donation and peronal time. We know that a individual and a a tem we can—and
will—make thi world a etter place.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Yum! Brands Foundation
A a gloal retaurant compan, our goal i to feed the world—epeciall thoe who are at rik of going to
ed hungr. With more than 41,000 retaurant in 125 countrie and territorie, the world i our
communit. We are committed to giving ack to all of the communitie where our emploee live and
work.
The Yum! rand Foundation upport charitale organization in the communitie we erve. While our
primar focu i inveting in organization that are working to olve hunger, we alo upport other
organization that are important to our aociate and our franchie partner. In 2014 the Yum! rand
Foundation inveted nearl $7 million in charitie with miion focued on hunger, outh, ocial ervice, the art and diverit.
In the U.S., the Yum! rand Foundation promote emploee giving to nonprofit organization through annual workplace giving
campaign and our matching gift program. Aociate and oard memer contriution to qualifing organization are matched dollar-
for-dollar, up to $10,000 annuall. Additionall, the Foundation encourage aociate to erve on oard of nonprofit agencie in their
communitie  providing financial upport to thoe organization.
The Yum! rand Foundation alo provide up to $1 million annuall to upport, Dare to Care Food ank, our local food ank partner.
Additionall, the Yum! rand Foundation upport variou local nonprofit working to erve thoe in need in our hometown.
Charitale Contriution
The Yum! rand Foundation focue primaril on the eradication of hunger and hunger-related caue. Additionall, we are proud to
upport our nonprofit partner in the area of art and culture, human and ocial ervice and other area that are important to our
aociate.
Dare to Care Food ank
In Louiville, Kentuck, home of Yum! rand and KFC, one in four children i at rik of going to ed hungr each night. A the world’
larget retaurant compan, it i our privilege and our reponiilit to feed the hungr—around the world and in our hometown.
Together with our Louiville-aed aociate, we have contriuted more than $12 million over 12 ear to the Dare to Care Food ank to
end hunger in the Kentuck/Indiana region. Through a network of more than 300 food pantrie, helter and emergenc kitchen, Dare
to Care provided over 13 million meal to more than 192,000 people in 2013. Partnering with Dare to Care enale Yum! to reach thoe in
our communit who mot need our upport.
We are proud to upport Dare to Care’ Kid Café after-chool program, which provide children 18 and under with a warm nutritiou
meal in a afe environment. Children alo have the opportunit to participate in adult-upervied activitie, academic and extracurricular
activitie including homework clu.
Yum! rand’ upport help Dare to Care expand it programming including:
Creating the ackpack udd program to ditriute nutritiou, kid-friendl food to children from low-income familie on
weekend when the do not receive free and reduced-price reakfat and lunche at chool.
talihing Patrol Againt Hunger, a firt-of-it-kind program, providing nutritionall alanced meal to houeound enior
through a unique partnerhip with the Louiville Metro Police Department.xpanding the numer of Kid Café location acro our communit.
“Yum! rand ha een an invaluale partner to the Dare to Care Food ank providing more than $12 million repreenting
more than 85 million meal to familie, children and enior. Without the help of our friend at Yum! rand, there would
e man more people truggling with hunger in our communit.”
rian Riendeau, xecutive Director, Dare to Care Food ankYum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Local Partnership Programs
Our local communit impact tretche around the world and we are deepl committed to making poitive change in all the countrie in
which we operate. Here are ome example of the wa our team gloall are giving ack to the communitie where the live and work.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Local Partnership Programs U.S. Brands
KFC U.S.
KFC Foundation
The Kentuck Fried Chicken Foundation elieve in Colonel Sander’ viion. And the think nothing get cloer to the core of hi value
like the Foundation’ RACH ducational Grant and the RACH HIGH  – High School quivalenc Program. Thee KFC Foundation
program are poitivel impacting hundred of live for man ear to come.
ach ear, the Foundation provide hundred of thouand of dollar in cholarhip and grant to hundred of deerving tudent acro
the countr – over $12.5 million ince 2006. Since 2012, $2.6 million of that wa awarded to more than 1,400 KFC Team Memer via the
RACH ducational Grant Program . The RACH ducational Grant Program help KFC retaurant hourl Team Memer and Shift
Supervior purue their educational dream. Thee $2,000 grant help Team Memer recipient attend accredited four-ear and two-
ear educational intitution, a well a trade/vocational chool. From the ingle parent finall completing a degree tarted 15 ear
earlier to thoe who are the firt in their familie to attend college, the Foundation i making a difference in the live of thoe who are
willing to work hard and improve themelve through education.
In 2014, the Foundation launched the new RACH HIGH  - High School quivalenc Program to help hourl Team Memer and Shift
Supervior at participating KFC retaurant earn a high chool credential. The do thi  not onl covering their exam preparation and
exam cot, ut alo  peronall guiding them through the proce. The Foundation i committed to helping recipient reach for their
educational dream! Aitance i availale to Team Memer at participating retaurant in 48 tate for the GD , HiSet  and TASC
exam.
Pizza Hut U.S.
Deliver Hope
Deliver Hope i Pizza Hut’ call to action to encourage conumer and Pizza Hut emploee worldwide to help other through the
compan’ three philanthropic pillar: children’ literac, World Hunger Relief and involvement in the local communit. During the 2014
World Hunger Relief campaign, Pizza Hut cutomer Delivered Hope  making donation to the World Food Programme while dining in
retaurant and when ordering online through the Deliver Hope digital campaign.
OOK IT!  Program
The Pizza Hut US OOK IT! reading incentive program i a ke part of Pizza Hut’ Deliver Hope movement. To date, more than 14 million
tudent have participated in the OOK IT! program and in 2014, the program celerated it’ 30th irthda. To celerate, ook It called for
all it alumni from all acro the United State to raie their hand and how the poitive effect of literac and emphaize the importance of™
®
™
® ® ™
®eing ale to read.
Taco Bell U.S.
Taco ell Foundation for Teen
Taco ell i a rand with a purpoe… to feed people’
live with má: má flavor, má heart and má value. We
put our heart into everthing we do, and we are genuinel committed to helping our
guet, our team memer, our partner and our communitie get a little more out of life.
ecaue we elieve in teen, each da we erve and interact with million of teen. The
are our cutomer, our emploee, our friend and familie. The are alo our future –
future leader, franchiee, upplier and partner.
Since 1992, Taco ell Foundation for Teen, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, ha inpired and
enaled teen to graduate high chool and achieve má – in our communitie, in high
chool and at Taco ell. Through our program, partnerhip and direct financial aitance, we have provided educational and jo
training upport to more than one million teen acro the countr and awarded more than $42 million in grant and cholarhip to more
than 1,000 teen-erving organization in the U.S. With 36 million cutomer erved in almot 6,000 retaurant each week, we ee it a a
reponiilit and an opportunit to raie the iue and help addre the need; engage cutomer, emploee and franchiee; and make a
lating difference in the live of teen. We alo recognize that pulic-private partnerhip are eential to olving our nation’ mot critical
prolem, which i wh we convene like-minded organization like Get Schooled and the o & Girl Clu of America.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Local Partnership Programs International
Autralia
Reach Foundation and Whitelion
KFC Autralia ha a huge heart and elieve in giving everone a fair opportunit. The upport outh in local communitie and help
eradicate hunger around the world. Aociate are united in giving ack to the communitie where the live and work. Through their
action, KFC Autralia i making the word a etter place.
Raied more than $5.4 million for the World Food Programme to feed the hungr
Donated $50,000 to the Tamanian uhfire 2013
Organized appeal  the Autralian Red Cro
Partner with the The Reach Foundation in Victoria that ha extended to NSW for 19 ear
mploed approximatel 40% of the oung people in the Whitelion mploment Program, making it the larget emploer in
the program over the pat 17 ear
“KFC’ upport ha een vital in helping to provide at-rik outh with emploment opportunitie, mentoring and
education-aed prevention program. We’ve worked with KFC for over 15 ear, and toda, KFC i our larget emploer in
the Whitelion mploment Program, ringing in over 200 oung Autralian into the KFC famil where the have
excelled and poitivel contriuted to their local communit. KFC ha een opening door for our oung people for man
ear and we look forward to continuing our partnerhip in the future.”
Mark Watt, CO Whitelion
razil
Pizza Hut razil, in partnerhip with NGO anco de Alimento, participate in communit teamuilding activitie at orphanage, São Paulo.
Volunteerim include planting her garden and uilding a lirar for the tudent to tud. A culinar workhop help the children to
learn how to full leverage the harvet from the garden, including the talk, tem and eed. Additionall, KFC razil launched ‘Meu
Primeiro mprego’, an internall operated program at the Retaurant Support Center for Retaurant mploee and Retaurant Support
Center mploee. The program i focued on teaching life kill uch a managing finance, alar and enefit education, and corporate
world tranitioning.
Canada
KFC Canada ha formed partnerhip with non-profit organization within the communit to create formal internhip a part of their
hiring proce. Thee partnerhip help new immigrant otain Canadian work experience a well a offer the Canadian communit with
a pool of qualified emploee.
IeriaKFC Ieria partner with local intitution to offer paid work internhip to ociall excluded immigrant teenager etween the age of 15-
20. The program expoe teen to eential work kill through a three month in-retaurant training program and after completion, the
are eligile to appl for permanent emploment.
France
Le Retaurant Du Coeur
For the third conecutive ear, KFC France i howing that the are a compan with a Grand Coeur or Huge Heart through it partnerhip
with Le Retaurant du Coeur. KFC France, through the KFC Foundation created in 2012, partnered with the charitale organization to
launch a campaign to feed need familie.
The campaign include almot 160 KFC France retaurant who will raie a minimum of 100,000 euro (US $137,429) during the campaign
and more than 50 KFC emploee and franchie volunteer will take part in a nationwide food drive to collect canned good and hgiene
product. Additionall, a part of KFC France' Volunteer for Hope effort, Product xcellence and Human Reource team from the
rand' Retaurant Support Center will offer their profeional expertie in the area of purchaing and e-learning tool development for
Le Retaurant du Coeur taff and volunteer.
German
In 2014, KFC German executed for the econd time a nationwide charit fundraiing campaign to upport the undeverand Deutche
Tafel e.V. and the UN World Food Programme. In upport of the motto “at together – Share together,” the campaign collected 110,000
euro (US $116,435) for the mutual attle againt hunger in German and throughout the world. The campaign wa a part of the annual
World Hunger Relief campaign.
Acro German, 50,000 volunteer of the undeverand Deutche Tafel e.V., a German Food ank Federation, collected expired food
otherwie intended for dipoal from retail outlet and manufacturer and ditriuted them to thoe in need through a network of 914
local “Tafeln” food ank. KFC German upport and volunteer for the “Tafeln” to enure that, in the future, aid and relief continue to
reach thoe who need it mot. The donation collected flow into variou project, including the proviion of equipment and the
etalihment of infratructure for their important work, a well a into pecial project for children, oung people and enior citizen.
MNApak
Sharing Huge Heart ‘Care ag’
Pizza Hut MNAPak addree the need of the hungr world  taking care of ome of the aic need of the laorer at our doortep. In
Jul 2014, during Hol month of Ramadan, which i alo known a the month of giving, Pizza Hut and Yum! emploee dug deep into
their wallet and contriuted donation that would fund 200 Huge Heart Care ag. The ag were packed with goodie  aociate and
volunteer and then delivered  mini-u to location where the laorer gathered.
“It wa delightful to ee the expreion of jo on the face of the laorer when the received thi Care ag a an expreion of hope,” aid
a volunteer. “It meant a lot to them, ut it meant more to u ecaue we returned home atified that we rought jo to omeone ele’ life
at leat for a da.”
South Africa
Add Hope
In South Africa, more than 12 million people go hungr ever ingle da, with 3.3 million
of them eing children. KFC Add Hope i a nationwide fundraier dedicated to feeding
hungr children. KFC Add Hope upport 11 national eneficiarie and 79 franchieeprogram on the ground enuring the children that are upported  thee organization
have acce to nutritiou meal ever da. Thank to over $2.1 million from our
franchiee communit contriution and the generou $2.6 million donated 
cutomer for 2014, we were ale to feed 40,000 more children a month in 2014. A
hungr nation impl cannot e a growing nation and with the help of our eneficiarie
on the ground uch a JAM (Joint Aid Management) and SOS Children’ Village & Hope
Worldwide, Add Hope feed 70,000 children a month.
Mini Cricket
KFC South Africa ha alo ponored
the KFC Mini-Cricket program ince
2009. Through the Mini-Cricket
program, KFC South Africa promote
active and alanced lifetle among
oung o and girl. Over 100,000
children acro South Africa
participate in the program each ear and the experience i uuall their firt expoure to the game of cricket.
Deliver Hope
In South Africa, the harh realit i that almot two-third of tudent do not have the mone to eat regularl, which mean the do not
get the nutrition the need to make the mot of their tudie. Pizza Hut South Africa introduced Deliver Hope, a gra-root campaign
where the communit can help oung people look forward to an even righter future.
Mot recentl, Pizza Hut South Africa partnered with MS’ Johua Group, where the will upport 14 oung people who are willing to
grow a leader and acquire life kill to empower them in further tudie or training. At the completion of the program, the tudent will
e equipped with driver’ licene, aic computer kill, leaderhip kill and aic career choice expoure. Student that graduate from
the program can ait other oung people in the Hillrow, South Africa communit for a ear.
Ruia
uild People Capailit
KFC Ruia and Commonwealth of
Independent State developed
"Orphan Teen Social Adaptation
Program" due to the lack of ocial
ervice availale to orphaned
teen and the uequent
incidence of homelene among
the demographic. The program, which tarted in Decemer 2013, connect orphan
who have aged out of reidential etting to ocial ervice profeional. Currentl, aout 20 teen from Orphan Houe in Novoiirk are
participating.
Through eion and training with pchologit, teacher, lawer and other volunteer, the teen gain the practical kill the need to
adapt to life outide their orphanage and thrive a adult. Thoe intereted in KFC career can train on-ite in retaurant with the
poiilit of continuing full time after completing the program. The program ha een recognized  Novoiirk government official
for proactivel addreing thee iue.Netherland
Supporting xercie Through Sport
KFC Netherland upport and timulate a health lifetle through partnering with local port, occer and rug clu. Specificall,
KFC ponor a team from Kooger Footall Clu from each ear  providing KFC randed footall gear, uch a hirt, hort, and ock.
KFC alo co-ponor a nationall known occer clu, Feenoord in Rotterdam where the ponor a pupil’ tournament activitie. KFC i
alo a uine ponor at occer clu MVV Maatricht, where KFC randed footall are hot into the audience  profeional occer
plaer. Other ponorhip include upport for Oemoemenoe Clu in Middelurg, which allow the participant to train and pla with
KFC randed all.
Pizza Hut Gloal
Deliver Hope
At the local level, our Pizza Hut team Deliver Hope  giving ack to their neighor and communit through feeding, literac and
education. Pizza Hut Cota Rica wa recognized  their local government for providing and nurturing emploment of dialed
individual. Pizza Hut UK team raied and donated a ignificant amount to Children in Need, an organization in the UK that trive for
ever child to grow up in a afe, happ and ecure environment and i given the chance to reach their full potential. In Africa, our Pizza
Hut team have focued their energ around the Johua Group, a programme that upport oung people a the grow a leader and
acquire life kill to empower them in further tudie or training.
United Kingdom
arnardo' Partnerhip
KFC UK launched a partnerhip with arnardo’ in 2012 to offer diadvantaged oung people the opportunit to participate in work
experience placement in a KFC retaurant for up to four week. A numer of oung adult have ince participated in placement, with
everal going on to ecure jo at KFC UK — a powerful and life-changing top for thee oung people.
The partnerhip, which egan in 2011 a a pilot in North-Wet ngland, i deigned to help
people from arnardo’ ervice to get a tart in the jo world and harnee KFC’
expertie in providing important kill for oung adult. Participant follow a peciall-
tailored program deigned to introduce underprivileged oung people to the workplace,
while equipping them with highl tranferrale kill uch a food preparation, cutomer
ervice, working in a fat-paced environment and eing part of a team.
In 2014, 40 oung people participated in the program and 10 of them uccefull gained
permanent emploment at KFC UK. KFC UK donate to arnardo’ to help fund future tudent and grow the work placement program.
Yum! Thailand
School Lunch Program
Yum! Thailand collect fund throughout the ear to provide nutritiou lunche for healthier live to local children. Suitale nutrition i
an important factor for qualit of life and tudent’ ailit to learn, o KFC and Pizza Hut in Thailand initiated the School Lunch Program
to raie fund via donation oxe at retaurant. Fund collected upport two initiative:Home-Grown School Feeding Program – KFC Thailand i the firt corporation to partner with thi program, which wa
founded in 1980  Her Roal Highne Prince Maha Chakri Sirindhorn.
Sutainale and Health School Lunch Program – Student at 10 chool in rural area throughout everal region areeducated with knowledge in nutrition and agriculture to ufficientl and
utainal plant vegetale, feed animal, farm egg and more for their own
chool meal.
“Yum! Thailand i an organization that pa attention to the malnutrition of
children in remote area. Since 2011, 25,281,800 aht (US $773, 534) have een
raied  Yum! Thailand a the contant upport to Her Roal Highne Prince
Maha Chakri Sirindhorn’ roal initiative, Agriculture for School Lunch Project
and 10 chool in rural area. On ehalf of the children under the project, we
would like to extend our gratitude to Yum! Thailand.”
— Su-lieutenant Kitti Khanthamit, Grand Chamerlain, H.R.H. Prince Sirindhorn’ Agriculture for School Lunch
Project
KFC and Pizza Hut in Thailand alo raied fund and volunteered to help Thai reident in everal communitie affected  naturaldiater .
KFC and Pizza Hut Seven Shoot
KFC and Pizza Hut in Thailand are alo committed to improving Thai ociet. Yum! Thailand upport Seven Shoot, the greatet 7-plaer
outh footall league in Thailand, originated  KFC Thailand in 2009. The league offer children in ever chool and ever communit
the opportunit to demontrate their footall plaing ailitie. The goal of thi program i to encourage oung people to make ue of their
pare time productivel through port and exercie. Footall i conidered a wa to trengthen relationhip among children, familie,
chool and communitie. Mot importantl, Yum! Thailand trive to help make dream come true. The ackone of thi campaign i the
retaurant general manager and their team memer who upport and elect children in each communit.
In 2014, 3,049 team participated in thi program where the winning team receive an honorar troph, 100,000 aht (US $3,036)
cholarhip and a once-in-a-lifetime chance to travel to Mancheter, UK to join a 4 da workhop with Mancheter Cit FC.
For the fourth conecutive ear, the American Chamer of Commerce in Thailand (AMCHAM) awarded thi team the 2014
AMCHAM Corporate Social Reponiilit xcellence Recognition and the Creative Partnerhip deignation for excellence
in creativit and innovation.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Local Partnership Programs Yum! China
Firt Light Foundation
KFC China and the China Youth Development Foundation (CYDF) etalihed the KFC
China Firt Light Foundation in 2002 to help tudent in need. Thi cholarhip fund i
the firt of it kind in the countr and introduce recipient tudent to three apect of
“help” - cholarhip fund and opportunitie, engaging in elf-help via work-tud
emploment opportunitie with Yum!, and facilitating ocial reponiilit project in
the name of their own aociation “Firt Light Commune.” Thi project ha een funded
for 10 ear and i eing executed in phae through 2018. The total invetment ha reached nearl 12.4 million U.S. dollar (77 million
Chinee Yuan). The project will cover 57 univeritie in 28 citie and help more than 13,700 tudent complete four ear of college.
Yum! China Hunger Relief Program
Since 2008, Yum! China ha partnered with China Foundation for Povert Alleviation (CFPA) and the World Food Programme to fight
hunger. A part of Yum!’ gloal World Hunger Relief effort, the program aim to provide nutritiou food for need children in China'
mot povert tricken mountainou region.
 the end of 2014, Yum! China’ WHR campaign raied more than US $16 million (over 100 million Chinee Yuan), which ha provided 29
million upplemental meal for more than 145,000 children, and ha donated ‘Love Canteen’ equipment to more than 500 chool in
impoverihed mountain area. There are a total of 75 million conumer who participated in the donation campaign, making it one of the
larget pulic donation campaign in China.
China WHR Program won ‘The et CSR Award’  Infzm (Infzm i the mot influential Chinee crediilit and the larget weekl
circulation newpaper).
Pizza Hut Green Scout Camp
Since 2009, Pizza Hut deignated the lat week of Ma a the “Pizza Hut nvironmental
Protection Week” to promote the green life concept to conumer through our tore
nationwide.
Pizza Hut alo launched the “Pizza Hut Green Scout Camp” nationwide in 2010, which
encourage the Student Societ of Univeritie to deliver 6 coure of nvironmental
Protection knowledge in one full ear' time to primar chool tudent. The tudent
will ecome “Pizza Hut Green Scout” if the uccefull collect 6 pin after the
complete all the ix coure. With thi program, we aim to ring two generation
together to work for a green future.
From 2012, Pizza Hut entrut NGO to execute “Green Scout” project, which promoted the development of thi camp.  2014, nearl
90,000 primar chool tudent have completed their coure, ecoming “Pizza Hut Green Scout”. In Nanjing, the “Pizza Hut Green
Scout” ha ecome a mandator coure in Xiaozhuang primar chool ince Sep, 2012. “Pizza Hut Green Scout” i ecoming the mot
influential environmental education project in China.Three-on-Three Tournament
In 2004, KFC China launched a national outh three-on-three aketall tournament,
the larget corporate-ponored graroot port program in Chinee hitor. The
program tarted with 48,000 participant repreenting 640 retaurant from 172 citie.
Toda thi program, in it 11th eaon, i the world' larget graroot aketall
program with more than 1.4 million participant and 35640 team in 532 citie. We are
thrilled with thi growth and look forward to replicating the event internationall.
Chick Happ Camput Journe
Chick Sport Game wa tarted in Shanghai in 2003 with the goal to help children develop exercie hait and adopt a health lifetle.
At the end of 2014, the Chick Sport Game ha covered 20 citie acro China, 3,560 chool have engaged and nearl 1,780,000 children
and 20,000 parent have participated.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Local Partnership Programs Yum! India
We elieve in All People
Yum! India received the 2014 conomic Time Retail Award for it focu on emploee diverit, pecificall it commitment to hiring team memer
with hearing and peech impairment. The award program, ponored  financial pulication The conomic Time and the Retailer Aociation
of India, celerate excellence in uine operation, cutomer ervice, merchandie mix and corporate ocial development.
In 2013, Yum! India wa recognized  Impact, an advertiing and marketing magazine, a one of the “rand that Lend More than a
Hand.” The article highlighted India' World Hunger Relief initiative and the peciall-aled emploment program, noting India' plan to
hire 1,000 hearing and peech impaired emploee  2015 for 50 peciall-aled KFC retaurant. Additionall, the KFC retaurant
partnered with organization in different citie that help with recruitment and training in the initial phae including training the
manager on ign language. The tore have pecial equipment, which create a more enaling environment. KFC currentl ha 20
peciall-aled tore where hearing and peech-impaired emploee account for more than 67% of the total taff.
“At Yum! India ‘Growth with a ig Heart’ i at the core of everthing we do – whether it' our gloal hunger relief program
launched in 2007, World Hunger Relief, or an emploment program through which KFC emplo the peciall-aled
(hearing and peech impaired).”
Niren Chaudhar, Preident of Yum! India
Hunger to Hope Kitchen
In upport of World Hunger Relief 2014, Yum! India and ollwood actor/celerit Sharman Johi joined force to fight hunger at a
“Hunger to Hope Kitchen” event held in a New Delhi KFC retaurant. Proceed from the retaurant' ale for the da were donated to
World Hunger Relief agencie. Additionall, Johi joined Yum! aociate at the Smile Foundation, a well-known non-governmental
organization, where the enjoed a outh dance performance. The Smile Foundation run a nutrition program that enefit more than
300,000 underprivileged children on the ucontinent.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Disaster Relief
In the pirit of our culture and viion to e a compan with a Huge Heart, Yum!, together
with our aociate and franchie partner, ha aited with man relief effort in
repone to natural diater. Whether the are providing hot meal, financial aitance
or volunteering their time, our team are demontrating their commitment to giving
ack and helping thoe who need it mot.
We alo work with our partner at the United Nation World Food Programme to allocate
fund raied in our World Hunger Relief program to diater relief campaign.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Goal: Be a leading prepared food donation program by donating product
from our restaurants to food banks and other charitable organizations.
Harvest
For more than 20 ear, Yum! and our rand have demontrated a commitment to olving hunger in the United State and around the
world. Through the Yum! Harvet program, the world’ oldet prepared food donation program, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco ell retaurant
donate on average more than 10 million pound of food annuall to partner agencie nationwide and gloall. Since 1992, the Yum!
tem ha contriuted more than 170 million pound of product to more than 3,000 nonprofit organization—a fair market value of
$763.5 million.
The Yum! Harvet program offer a fantatic alternative to dicarding urplu food.  donating to food ank and other charitale
organization acro the countr, we are feeding people intead of landfill. ach ear, thee charitale organization erve more than 10
million meal of urplu food to thoe in need around the world.
We are committed to uilding on the ucce of thi program and expanding the model to other countrie to feed more people around the
world.Our Partner
Food Donation Connection i the indutr leader in coordinating prepared food donation, with more than 20 ear experience of
partnering together on our prepared food program.
“Food Donation Connection and Yum! rand have een fighting againt hunger, hand in hand, for more than 20 ear.
Together we help to provide over 10 million pound of prepared food ever ear from Yum! retaurant to worth
nonprofit organization. We are proud and grateful to e ale to partner with Yum! to put an end to hunger.”
ill Reighard,
Preident, Food Donation Connection
Communit enefit
The program make ignificant local impact feeding the hungr in our own ackard. Our retaurant etalih communit partnerhip
through a one-to-one pairing with local hunger relief agencie. In exchange for picking up the donation and committing to afe food
handling practice, local charitie receive free, protein-rich food.nvironmental Sutainailit
Our urplu product donation are not onl helping individual in need, ut are alo creating a healthier and afer environment acro the
countr. When food i dipoed in a landfill, it quickl reak down and ecome a ignificant ource of methane — a potent greenhoue
ga with 21 time the gloal warming potential of caron dioxide. Landfill are a major ource of human-related methane in the United
State, accounting for more than 20 percent of all methane emiion.  donating our product, we are reducing, recovering, and
reccling product while helping thoe in need. In fact, ince our program egan in 1992, we have diverted over 300,000,000 pound of
greenhoue gae from landfill!
Harvet Storie
Yum! rand i committed to uilding upon our Harvet program uccee in the U.S.  taking thi program gloal. We are proud of
team around the gloe who have committed to making poitive change in the countrie where the operate. Here are jut a few
example of the wa our team around the world are leading the wa with urplu food donation.
KFC Autralia
KFC Autralia participate in Foodank Autralia’ Food Recue Program, donating urplu product from our warehoue to people in
need. Through their effort, 85% of upplier are igned up to donate to Foodank Autralia. To date, thi team ha donated nearl 67,000
kilogram of food, equating to over 90,000 meal.
“KFC provide u with an arra of ingredient from meat to auce and eaoning, all of which are a great addition to our
tock lit. The two and a half thouand charitie we uppl with food around the countr appreciate the variet a it
enale them to provide tat and nutritiou meal. With KFC’ help, we’re triving to enure that no one in Autralia goe
hungr.”
Greg Warren, General Manager Foodank Autralia
KFC Hawaii
KFC Hawaii forged a partnerhip with Aloha Harvet in 1998. Over the pat 14 ear, thee retaurant have donated more than 765,210
pound to feed the hungr in Hawaii. In 2014 alone, Hawaii donated more than 30,490 pound of food to Aloha Harvet! The team wa
recentl recognized  Aloha Harvet for their generou donation and committed partnerhip.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Our Environment
We are intentional aout incorporating utainailit into our wa of doing uine to
reduce our environmental footprint for the enefit of our cutomer, aociate,
franchiee and their familie, hareholder and the planet.
We deliver on our commitment  focuing on thee ke area:
Green uilding
nerg fficienc
Water Conervation
Supplier Scorecard
Paper-aed Packaging
Wate Recover and RecclingYum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Green Buildings
Goal: Design and build all new company-owned restaurants to be
leed certifiable by the end of 2015.
Progre:
ON TARGT
The core of utainale uilding innovation and experimentation at Yum! ha een
the   Initiative – nerg, nvironment and conomic. The goal of the initiative i to
develop green uilding olution that meet the ottom line ojective of people,
planet and profit. Thi holitic deign approach look at all apect of our uilding
and endeavor to tet technologie and approache in experimental uilding. Green
uilding focu on the core area of energ aving, water conervation, ite
enitivit, enile material ue and environment for people.
Developing utainale olution mean inveting in thoughtful and meaured
reearch. Onl through thi proce can field-teted and retaurant-read olution
e prepared and deploed into our tem. Although green principle ma remain
contant, the execution of thoe principle acro gloal market varie. A we uild our undertanding, our expectation i to appl
proven green olution to more exiting uilding and to all new uilding. We currentl have over 4,200 retaurant that include
olution derived from the   Initiative
We are a memer of the United State Green uilding Council (USGC) and the organization ha een a valued
upporter of the development of our green uilding around the world. During the coure of our green uilding
journe, Yum! ha deigned and uilt over 20 LD certified uilding acro nine countrie. Our certification total
i the econd highet among retaurateur in late 2014.
Thi know-how i enaling u to meet our goal of requiring 100% LD certifiale uilding
for new compan-owned retaurant  the end of 2015. We have developed a treamlined
roadmap to LD for our retaurant called lueline. It ue retaurant relevant apect of
LD and provide pecific, actionale olution teted in our foundational green uilding.
Thi roadmap wa developed  our Gloal Sutainailit department and development
partner from around the world including Autralia, China, France, Thailand and the United
Kingdom. Project uing the lueline tem are capale of puruing certification under the LD rating tem.
We are pleaed to hare our ucce on the journe to meet our goal for compan-owned retaurant ut have not forgotten that franchie
partner will enefit the mot from green uilding. Leading franchiee have alread emraced approache and we are working to et
green uilding goal with them a we look toward 2020.3
3Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Energy Efficiency
Goal: Reduce energy consumption in company-owned restaurants
by 15% by the end of 2015.
Progre:
ON TARGT
nerg conumption i a ke part of green uilding deign and i part of our roadmap to
utainale retaurant deign via lueline. We continue to devote utantial effort to
finding new and innovative wa to reduce energ uage in new and exiting retaurant
in order to reduce the impact our retaurant have on the environment. More efficient
technologie for lighting, air conditioning, and refrigeration continue to e developed and
we carefull evaluate and appl thee technologie when the provide the right alance of
environmental and economic enefit.
We value our long-term relationhip with organization uch a the U.S. Department of
nerg’ etter uilding Alliance and the American Societ of Heating, Refrigeration and
Air-Conditioning ngineer (ASHRA) to continue to uild our know-how on emerging
technologie and to work cooperativel within the retaurant indutr to drive more
energ efficient practice.
The end of 2014 marked the 9th ear of our 10 ear goal to reduce energ conumption 
15% in our compan-owned retaurant. Our team had a record ear reulting in the
accumulated aving from their effort of over 530 million kilowatt hour. The
environmental impact ha een ignificant with an accumulated reduction of almot 1.2
million metric ton of CO  ince 2009. A a reult of the teamwork, we have now urpaed
the 14% mark and are moving cloer to achieving our 15% goal. We full expect to urpa the 15% mark in 2015 and will et new target
a we look to 2020.
 2Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Water Conservation
Goal: Reduce water consumption in company-owned restaurants
by 10% by the end of 2015.
Progre:
LOW TARGT
A we continue to grow and develop retaurant around the world, we recognize our
reponiilit to do our part  uing a little water a we can while erving our cutomer.
We’ve developed requirement for our ice machine, dihwaher, retroom fixture and
irrigation tem deigned to reduce our water ue. New innovative technologie continue
to e ought out and evaluated o the ma e implemented to further reduce our water
footprint.
Retaurant team are working to implement water aving technologie uch a low flow
faucet and retroom fixture inide our retaurant a well a to optimize irrigation
tem and timer outide our tore. In 2014, the accumulated aving from thee, and
previou initiative, reulted in the reduction of over 220 million gallon of water. It’
impreive to e ale to report that we’ve aved 577 million gallon of water over the pat
nine ear, ut recognizing thi i 37% of our target energize u to keep working to find
even more wa to achieve our goal.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Supplier Scorecard
Goal: Implement supplier environmental audits by 2015.
Progre:
IMPLMNTD
Along the journe to reducing our gloal caron footprint, we recognized the need for an
environmental audit of our upplier. Our ojective wa to ae our upplier in five ke area:
energ efficienc, water efficienc, wate/reccling, pollution reduction and environmental
management.  We uccefull added the capailit to all of our market gloall to audit their
upplier.  The audit drive awarene a well a utainale ehavior and action within our
uppl chain.
Our rand are currentl performing the environmental audit in man of our market. ach ear
we will continue to introduce the audit into additional market. We are committed to developing
the capailit of our upplier to take action to improve their environmental utainailit.
Continued audit will enale u to highlight and recognize upplier performance a the
undertake a journe to reduce their footprint on their communitie and wider planet.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Paper-Based Packaging
Goal: Purchase 100% of paper‑based packaging with fiber from
responsibly managed forests and recycled sources by 2020.
Progre:
IN PROGRSS
Given the large volume of packaging we u, Yum! i uniquel poitioned to provide
environmentall preferale packaging to our cutomer around the gloe while alo reducing our
impact on the environment and our communitie. Our ailit to erve food afel, quickl and
convenientl i largel dependent upon our ue of dipoale packaging.
Throughout the quick ervice retaurant indutr, the wa in which we package food ha een
conitent with the tandardized packaging availale. To upport our reponile-packaging
procurement commitment we depend on our upplier, manufacturer, converter, ditriutor
and retailer who provide u with paper-packaging. For thi reaon we have et the following
principle that guide our purchaing deciion.
Yum! i committed to making utainale packaging a priorit. In upport of thi commitment, we
have developed a Sutainale Sourcing Polic.
We are working toward meauring our performance againt our goal. In 2013 Yum! urveed our gloal upplier and gathered data on
all paper-aed packaging ourcing to ae our current tate. The urve aked quetion aout reccled and certified fier content,
countr of foret fier origin, fier pecie, environmental management tem, and everal other parameter.
Thi urve allowed u to etter evaluate our paper-packaging uppl ae againt our reponile paper ourcing polic. Through thi
proce, we gained rout undertanding of the foret ource of our paper-packaging. We identified higher rik ource and took action
in pecific region to avoid and phae out unwanted ource. We alo identified opportunitie to accelerate our progre toward more
reccled or certified fier ource.
Tranitioning procurement practice i a proce that take time. Our long-term intention i that all wood fier ued in product that we
purchae or pecif i ourced from well-managed foret that have een certified to credile certification tandard and/or are from
reccled material. To enure that et practice i followed we count on the engagement with our committed upplier and input from ke
takeholder. Lat ear, we ought input from World Wildlife Fund to our reponile paper-packaging polic and ourcing program
trategie and were ale to take action around phaing out or avoiding unwanted fier ource, progreivel increaing credil
certified and reccled content, and etalihing rout aeline, internal protocol, meaurale regional target and action plan in
utainale paper-aed packaging ourcing.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Waste Recovery and Recycling
Goal: Minimize waste within our stores through increased efforts in
oil and corrugate recycling and food donation.
Progre:
ON TARGT
Through our oil reccling, corrugate reccling and our Harvet program , our tore wate audit
have helped u etimate that a large percentage of our ack‐of‐the houe wate i currentl
reccled or donated. Yum! i committed to implementing project to reduce, reue and reccle our
food and packaging wate. Thi include food donation, diverting wate from landfill and
packaging reclamation program.
Reducing the amount of wate generated from retaurant operation i a ignificant
environmental challenge. Our wate reduction effort addre oth retaurant operation a well
a our corporate office. While each of thee area of operation have different primar wate
tream, our wate management program enale u to increae reccling and wate recover
effort acro our tem.
In our retaurant, program are focued on exploring wa to oth reduce and utilize our wate
tream. Retaurant wate fall into everal main categorie: food, pent cooking oil, corrugated
cardoard and packaging. We are expanding reccling to all of our retaurant a reccling
tem ecome availale. We alo work with cro-indutr group uch a the Paper Recover Alliance, Food Wate Reduction Alliance
and WRAP to further food wate recover and reccling effort. We are in the proce of etalihing our 2020 goal for wate and
reccling, which will provide more meaureale and rout target for our rand gloall.
 Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Environment Policies
Palm Oil Polic
Yum! i till committed to implementing it gloal nutritional polic that include removal of palm oil a cooking oil in retaurant 
2017. In extenuating circumtance and  exception, market that will not meet our nutrition polic timeline will have a plan in place to
ource 100% utainale palm oil  the end of 2017.
Our goal i to ource 100% of our palm oil from reponile and utainale ource  the end of 2017. We will alo give preference to upplier that
are RSPO certified. In addition, we will ource palm oil onl from upplier whoe operation meet the following principle:
No development on High Conervation Value (HCV) landcape or High Caron Stock (HCS) foret.  While the HCS methodolog i
eing refined  field teting and cience review, new planting hould onl e etalihed in low caron tock area.  
No development on peatland regardle of depth, and ue of et management practice for exiting plantation on peat.
Compliance with countr law and regulation and our upplier code of conduct.
Prevention and reolution of ocial and/or land conflict conitent with the principle of free prior and informed conent.
Traceailit to the extraction mill and validation of freh fruit unche.
Through the Yum! Gloal Supplier Code of Conduct  and our Human and Laor Right Polic  we are committed to the repect and
protection of human right including not emploing underage children or forced laorer and prohiiting phical punihment or aue.
We will continue to work with our upplier gloall to update data and report on our progre in fulfilling our palm oil commitment
annuall in the Yum! CSR Report.
Sutainale Sourcing Polic
Yum! i committed to making utainale packaging a priorit. In upport of thi commitment, we have developed the following
Sutainale Sourcing Principle:
1. Yum! will not knowingl u paper-aed packaging product that were made with fier that come from illegal or the following unwanted
ource:
a. Wood harveted from foret that have een converted to plantation or non-foret ue
. Wood from high conervation value foret, unle thoe foret are credil certified
c. Wood where the ource foret and pecie are unknown
d. Wood harveted in a manner that violate human right
e. Wood harveted that violate local or international law
2. We will give preference to upplier who provide paper-packaging certified  a third-part, which meet the mot rigorou foret
management tandard. Currentl the Foret Stewardhip Council (FSC) tandard i conidered the mot rigorou foret certification 
leading conervation organization. However, we mut manage thi apiration in the context of technical requirement, uneven uppl, and
other uine and regulator conideration. Therefore we alo recognize certification from other national certification endored  the
Programme for the ndorement of Foretr Certification (PFC) and the Sutainale Foretr Initiative (SFI), provided the fier avoid the
unwanted ource lited aove.
3. Yum! i committed to Sutainale Packaging  increaing the amount of reccled content, a permitted  regulator and technical
contraint, acro our gloal tem. Thi i done within packaging content regulation to enure food afet, a well a withinperformance criteria to retain functionalit. Though limited availailit of uitale reccled fier retrict our acce to the uppl of thee
material in ome geographical area, we will work to leverage utainale practice into all of our wrapper, napkin, and container
worldwide.
4. To how compliance with thi ourcing polic, upplier hould utantiate their claim that fier ued to produce the paper-packaging
were legall harveted and traded and that the do not come from unwanted ource a outlined aove.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Recognition & Rankings
Incorporating utainailit into uine i a journe and we acknowledge reponil to e environmentall reponile corporate
teward. Telling our tor and reporting progre in a tranparent wa i critical to our path of improvement. We are appreciative of the
feedack and recognition that we receive for our effort.
Caron Dicloure Project
Since 2010, Yum! ha participated in the Caron Dicloure Project. Thi international evaluation
look at how well companie are reducing their caron footprint on their path to improving their
long-term impact on the environment. Our participation i a trong mol of our commitment to
tranparenc and the environment. In 2014 we received a dicloure core of 95 and performance
grade of .
We encourage ou to view the full 2014 report  clicking here.
Caron Trut Certification
In 2011, KFC in the United Kingdom achieved the Caron Trut Standard for the firt time. The
Caron Trut recognize companie for reducing their greenhoue ga emiion over time. We
are in the final tage of completing our recertification which retroactivel cover the pat three
ear. An overall caron footprint reduction during the recertification period i expected.
Newweek Green Ranking
Yum! wa named to the 2014 Newweek Green Ranking, which
rank the world’ 500 larget companie, gloall and in the U.S., on
corporate utainailit and environmental impact. We will
continue to trive to make meaningful change that we expect to
reflect poitivel in our ranking on oth the gloal and US lit where
we are lited at 399 and 308 repectivel.  To view the full ranking,
click hereSocial Innovation Summit
Roger McClendon, Yum!’ Chief Sutainailit Officer, repreented Yum! at the Social Innovation Summit in
San Francico. Thi event take place twice a ear and repreent a gloal convening of Fortune 500
companie, non-profit, the education ector, and other, all focued on ocial reponiilit and innovation
that lead to real change in the world around u.
Roger participated in a panel dicuion that focued on the future of utainale rand. Panelit dicued
how uine can e a force for good in ociet and hared how utainailit create poitive change. At
Yum!, a Roger tated, “Sutainailit i vital to our uine. In optimizing how we can e more efficient and minimize our
environmental impact through innovation, we actuall create a powerful uine cae and example for other to follow.”USGC Leed In Motion
Yum! wa honored  USGC  eing included in their recent pulication “LD in Motion: Retail.” It
provide an overview of gloal progre in the green uilding movement uing the LD rating tem. Their
LD Spotlight focued on Jonathan ala, AIA, LP-AP, Yum! Senior Manager, Gloal Sutainailit.
“Green uilding are a core component in our approach to reduce the environmental footprint for our KFC,
Taco ell and Pizza Hut retaurant”, aid Jonathan. To review the report, click here.
Autralia: Finalit In ankia Award
Thi ear, for the firt time, KFC Autralia wa named a finalit in the ankia
Sutainailit Award, Large uine Categor. A the firt Quick Service
Retaurant finalit in thi categor, KFC Autralia wa recognized for a
numer of firt-to-market utainailit innovation and olution.
Now in it 26th ear, the ankia Foundation i Autralia’ preeminent
organization recognizing and promoting innovative utainale development
and practice. We’re proud to e itting among other leading companie in
relation to our utainailit initiative and we’re committed to driving thi forward acro the indutr.
Autralia: Sutainale Packaging High Performer Rating
KFC Autralia i committed to making utainale packaging a priorit. A a ignator to the Autralian
Packaging Covenant (APC), we contantl evaluate our packaging deign, emedding the Sutainale
Packaging Guideline into our procee and new product development. We have made ignificant inroad
with our APC annual action plan and were given “High Performer” recognition in 2014 for our umiion.
United Kingdom: Firt Supplier Award For Sutainailit
In 2014, KFC UK awarded it firt ever upplier award for
utainailit. More than 20 umiion were received for thi new
award recognizing the upplier who made the igget poitive
environmental impact.
The winner wa JS/Seara for uing originall unuale portion of
their poultr a a fuel. The turned a wate tream into a renewale
energ ource uing innovation to meet their apiration to create a
cloed ccle in their ue of natural reource. Their 2013 trial
howed that the can completel eliminate their ue of foil fuel
on ite and reduce Co  emiion  98%. A fantatic achievement. Congratulation to all of our amazing upplier who are impacting the
environment and their communitie in a utainale wa.2Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Environment in Action
We are proud of our collective utainailit action taking place all around the world. Learn more aout how our rand are eing good
environmental teward and the impact the are having  clicking on a countr or icon elow.
Goal: Green Buildings
TACO BELL LIVES MÁS WITH SUSTAINABILITY
Location: California, UNITD STATS
xploring wa to reduce Taco ell’ environmental footprint ha een a ig focu of the
rand ince 2009 and we have made great tride while erving cutomer deliciou food,
an aweome experience and remaining attractive to our uine partner.
Taco ell ha developed three utainale tet retaurant to uild know-how. The firt
two, developed in 2011 and 2012, were LD certified and featured highl efficient lighting,
air-conditioning, irrigation and pluming technologie a well a man other feature
uch a rain water harveting and improved wate reccling. The third tet retaurant,
which opened in 2013, ue LD for all lighting element including parking lot light and pole ign. It alo ue ultra-high efficient air
conditioning tem and a olar arra, reulting in even greater energ aving.
The firt two tet retaurant met or exceeded the 12% LD energ reduction requirement and the third retaurant achieved an average 40%
reduction when compared to the pre-2009 prototpe deign. aed on thi ucce, all new ground-up retaurant ince 2013 have een
contructed uing the ame energ aving technolog or etter than the econd tet uilding ince 2013. Going forward Taco ell i
implementing it 40% reduction technolog into all of it new retaurant and looking for wa it can implement thee improvement into it
exiting retaurant.
In addition to energ aving, Taco ell i excited to participate in Yum’ green uilding program called lueline. The lueline program provide
a framework to meet the utainailit goal of 100% LD certifiale for all new Yum! compan-owned retaurant  the end of 2015. Thee
retaurant meet energ, water, ite, material and human environmental qualit meaure. Taco ell will continue in it commitment to ecome
a leader in utainailit. A new flaghip retaurant that incorporate utainale technolog and demontrate we care aout the environment
will how the world that we Live Má.
Goal: Green Buildings
KFC scores gold with LEED
Location: eijing, CHINA
KFC China celerated the opening of it third Leaderhip in nerg and nvironmental Deign (LD) Gold certified retaurant in eijing in late
2013. The Xuan Wu Men retaurant feature water and energ conervation technologie uch a efficient lighting with unlight harveting
control and high performing air-conditioning deign; etting a high tandard for uilding performance. lectricit and water conumption aretracked  a real-time monitoring tem located in the retaurant which enale KFC to
continuoul optimize energ aving and make future improvement. Since it opening
we have meaured an annual 20% overall energ aving and calculated 50% water
aving.
uilding on the ucce of thee prior certification, KFC China opened three additional
LD Gold certified retaurant in citie in climaticall divere region of the countr:
Chongqing, Shenzhen and Taiuan. Dedicated team in each cit worked to diligentl
uild their knowledge and plant the eed of indutr changing green uilding practice.
Completion of thee foundational uilding place KFC a a market leader in developing
tore that are etter for the environment and et the tage for achieving our goal of
100% LD certifiale uilding uing the lueline roadmap etalihed  Yum!.
Goal: Green Buildings
TACO BELL drives Carbon Reductions
Location: California, UNITD STATS
xploring wa to reduce Taco ell’ environmental footprint ha een a ig focu of the
rand ince 2009 and we have made great tride while erving cutomer deliciou food,
an aweome experience and remaining attractive to our uine partner.
A Taco ell look to ecome a leader in utainailit, the compan i taking action to
improve it deign and equipment in exiting retaurant to enefit it cutomer and
environment. The rand ha alread retrofitted more than 900 retaurant (aout 14% of
all Taco ell retaurant) with energ and water efficient meaure which will reult in
utantial energ and water ue reduction. Thank to thee improvement, a well a the
new utainale ground-up retaurant deign, Taco ell ha reduced it greenhoue ga emiion tem wide. Our updated utainale
retaurant deign reduce CO  emiion  approximatel 28 metric ton per retaurant per ear v. our pre-2009 deign. Taco ell intend to
improve on thi ear-over-ear a one of our main goal.
Goal: Green Buildings
KFC Marches Forward with Sustainable Buildings
Location: New South Wale, AUSTRALIA2KFC Autralia made hitor in 2013 with the grand opening of the countr' firt LD certified quick ervice retaurant located in at Maitland,
New South Wale. The tore i expected to reduce overall energ conumption  at leat 16% thank to technologie and approache uch the
intallation of LD lighting, innovative dalight and motion enor in trategic area, a well a indutr-leading kitchen ventilation
technolog.
A range of water-aving meaure have alo een implemented, uch a the intallation of water efficient landcaping, tankle water heater
and high efficienc water fixture and fitting in athroom, which are expected to reduce water ue  up to 35%.
The new retaurant, which feature extenive reccling, i etimated to e diverting up to 720 kilogram (1,587 pound) of wate each week from
landfill. verthing from KFC’ canola cooking oil, cardoard, ottle and can can e reccled, with food and general wate turned into
compot.
Marching forward from the great ucce of the firt uilding, a econd uilding, alo deigned to LD tandard, i now open. Thi retaurant
in Lidcome, located in the greater Sdne area, ha helped u refine our approache to the 3 initiative that alance energ conervation,
environmental footprint and economic. nhancement include a more compact uilding ize, LD lighting, more efficient cooking equipment
and improved extract hood. nerg conervation program reulting from our green uilding reearch ha reduced energ conumption 6%
while our ale have increaed 7% at the ame time.
"A one of the larget quick ervice retaurant rand in Autralia, we elieve it i our
reponiilit to minimize the impact of our uine on the environment we live and
operate in," aid Michael Clark, Chief Suppl Chain Officer for KFC Autralia. "We are
committed to making utantial invetment in reearch and initiative deigned to
reduce our environmental impact and to help enure that all of our new retaurant are
LD certifiale  the end of 2015."
Goal: Green Buildings
Running Strong
Location: Denton, UNITD KINGDOMIn 2009, KFC United Kingdom egan invetigating wa to uild more utainale
retaurant with lower caron emiion  piloting energ aving meaure at Wiech in
Camridgehire and later at Wincanton in Someret which achieved a RAM Ver Good
Rating and LD Gold certification. Thee energ aving approache are allowing the tore
to ave an etimated 310 metric ton of caron dioxide (CO ) each ear-the equivalent of
taking 22 car of the road.
Man of the energ reduction come from a more efficient heating, ventilation and air
conditioning tem. An energ management tem alo control all power uage,
including when to turn on and off each frer. Other meaure include LD throughout the
retaurant, including car park and ignage, a well a dalight-aving photocell light.
Now in operation, the retaurant reccle three wate tream: cardoard, kitchen food wate and cooking oil. Ued cooking oil i converted on-
ite into electricit and heat for water. Water ue i reduced through low conumption equipment uch a low-flow tap and pre-rine valve.
Since the completion of thoe project we have alo undertaken RAM compliant uilding in Denton and Middleton. Together, thee
project have prepared u well to uild all new compan-owned tore to e LD certifiale uing the treamlined Yum! lueline tandard.
Goal: Green Buildings
Construction Resources Optimized
Location: Wincanton, UNITD KINGDOM
One important apect of our green uilding program i the optimization of reource. In
other word, uing material martl. Wherever poile we ue uilding material with
reccled content. For example, in our LD Certified KFC in Wincanton, United Kingdom,
14% of aic uilding material, aed on cot, are from reccled ource. New raw
material are alo ourced martl uch a  uing timer throughout certified  the
Foret Stewardhip Council (FSC).
Contruction procee generate wate and green project need to manage thi component well. Our world cla wate management program
divert more than 95% of contruction wate awa from landfill. Although progre ha een made, we continue to reearch new material and
method to improve our ue of material during contruction.
Goal: Green Buildings
Enriching the life of Thais with sustainable Buildings
Location: Thailand
KFC Thailand i committed to uilding outtanding retaurant for Thai cutomer.
Preentl there are 530 KFC retaurant and we have plan to open hundred more 
2020. A the leading QSR rand in Thailand, KFC i committed to continuoul innovating
and reducing the environmental footprint of our new and exiting retaurant.
A part of thi effort, the deign of the air-conditioning and ventilation tem ha een
improved for the enefit of cutomer comfort and reduced energ conumption. Although
reult are continuing to e monitored, initial anali indicate a 25% reduction in energ
conumption. Thi i encouraging, ut going green i a journe and tem will continue
to e tudied and effort will e made to make additional improvement.2old tep have een taken to meet our commitment and in 2014, four retaurant received LD certification and two alo ued Yum’ lueline
tandard. Starting from 2015, KFC Thailand ha et the ar high  planning to deign and uild all new compan retaurant to e either LD
or lueline certifiale. lueline provide a gloal path to LD certification that provide local flexiilit. It i a perfect example of the
utainailit mantra think gloal, act locall.
Goal: Green Buildings
KFC Franchisee OPENS FIRST GREEN RESTAURANT IN COUNTRY
Location: Nilai, Malaia
In the Malaian univerit town of Nilai, located jut outide of Kuala Lumpur, hitor
wa made with the opening of the firt green uilt retaurant in the countr.
“With the rapid development of our countr and eing the larget quick ervice retaurant
rand in Malaia, it i important for u to lead the indutr toward a direction that i
more environmentall friendl,” aid Felix Michael, Chief Development Officer, QSR
rand (M) Holding Sdn hd (Operator of KFC and Pizza Hut Malaia). “Thee are jut
the earl da in our journe and we will trive to find new and etter olution for a
greener environment.”
The franchiee deigned thi uilding to reduce energ conumption  30% and to ave water. It i deigned to ue olar power to generate
100% of the hot water required for the kitchen to ave energ. Smart lighting deign with the ue of natural unlight, LD light and integrated
control tem i projected ue 55% le energ to keep the uilding lit. Other green apect include the capture and reue of rainwater for
irrigation a well a providing ued cooking for converion to iodieel.
KFC received the Green Mark Platinum award, the highet form of recognition,  the uilding & Contruction Authorit of Singapore. The
project ha et it ight high  alo appling for certification through the Malaian Green uilding Index and the roadl ued LD tem.
KFC Nilai i jut one of the tep that are eing taken to reduce our caron footprint.
Goal: Green Buildings
Integrating GREEN BUILDING best practices
Location: SOUTH Africa
In South Africa, a land of reathtaking natural eaut, KFC i on a journe to e
environmentall reponile  integrating utainale practice into the wa we do
uine. “We are currentl invetigating wa to further improve utainale practice in
the contruction and operation of our uilding. We take pride in doing our part for the
future of South Africa,” tated Tatiana Lamert, Aociate Director of Development a he
reviewed one our newet KFC opening in the countr.
Cutomer ma not notice a the enjo their great tating chicken, ut our newet
retaurant comprehenivel incorporate, inide and out, efficient LD lighting. We have
alo refurihed more than 350 exiting retaurant with the ame technolog, with more
eing converted ever ear. In keeping with our ojective to reduce total energ conumption, KFC South Africa now ue heat pump to
generate hot water in new uilding. Mot recentl, we have reduced the ize of our retaurant  approximatel 25% which i green a it
reduce raw material ued during contruction, operate more efficientl and contriute to reducing our caron footprint. All of thee
meaure are contriuting to our plan to uild LD certifiale uilding.Thi i jut the tart of our journe and we undertand that continued environmental ucce depend on uilding more inight. We have
implemented mart utilit metering in all of our compan-owned retaurant, through a third part ervice provider, to monitor our energ
conumption. The gathered data will contriute to developing the green uilding olution of the future.
Goal: Green Buildings
KFC Builds Momentum from one of COUNTRY’S GREENEST RESTAURANTS
Location: Orlean, FRANC
France' KFC retaurant in the cit of Orlean, which opened in 2013, i one of the greenet
uilt retaurant and i officiall the econd LD Gold retaurant in France. KFC Orlean
include a numer of innovation uch a natural lighting, olar hot water, low-water
uing retroom fixture, high-efficienc automated landcape prinkler and rainwater
harveting.
KFC ha alo created ignage to teach cutomer aout the environmental enefit of the innovation, which the plan to incorporate in future
uilding. The Orlean green project i jut one part of KFC France' commitment to reducing it environmental footprint for the enefit of
cutomer, aociate, takeholder and the planet.
"LD offer a wealth of idea that are ea to appl," aid Philippe Rouzier, head of contruction for KFC France. "Our ojective i to hare our
et practice from Orlean with all of our retaurant." To that end we are working to integrate approache and technologie that we have
teted and proven to e effective and affordale within our tandard uilding deign. We are following the Yum! roadmap to developing LD
certifiale uilding, called lueline. Thi effort i part of our roader commitment to uilding a ocial reponile compan through the
“PACT” that focue on our people, food, communit and environment to help create a etter France and etter world.
Goal: Green Buildings
Pizza Hut is in the House
Location: Plano, Texa, United State
Pizza Hut U.S. ha continued to focu on environmental utainailit in our retaurant and ha made tead progre in our goal to reduce our
environmental footprint. Our updated, compact and efficient deign for deliver focued uilding lead the wa in thi effort a the primar
workhore of new development. The footprint itelf i extremel compact (jut 1,100 q. ft.), there reducing energ conumption and thequantit of material required to uild the tore. Thee new retaurant are deigned to
provide over 20% energ aving a compared to our previou uilding.
We are partnering with one of our franchiee to uild a green Pizza Hut and will continue
to invetigate utainailit a a ke ojective in our initiative to create the Pizza Hut of
the future. Man environmentall friendl material and finihe, water aving fixture
and energ efficient appliance have een implemented. Pizza Hut i participating in
YUM’ green uilding program called lueline that provide an ojective framework for
creating utainale retaurant, meeting pecific energ, water, ite, material and human
environmental qualit meaure. Pizza Hut i committed to the puruit of environmental
utainailit adopting technologie and procee that will help u achieve that goal.
Goal: Green Buildings
PIZZA HUT IMPROVES EXISTING BUILDINGS
Location: Plano, Texa, United State
With nearl 6,400 retaurant in the U.S., addreing exiting facilitie ecome a ke initiative in Pizza Hut’ utainailit focu. Accordingl,
we have adopted a facilitie equipment upgrade program that replace inefficient equipment with high efficienc equipment and intall cutting
edge technolog HVAC control, reulting in an annual equivalent energ aving of over 3.9 million kWh, there reducing our caron
footprint  more than 1,100 metric ton of CO  per ear.
Pizza Hut ha alo implemented a lamp program to reduce energ conumption, improve air qualit, reduce wate and reduce or eliminate the
ue of heav metal in our lamp. All non-pecialt, dining room lamp are now pecified a LD in new contruction, reimage, remodel and
replacement in exiting tore. Additionall, all of our new and replacement exterior ign are now pecified with LD internal lighting. We
will continue to evaluate technologie in our effort to reduce our environmental footprint.
Goal: Green Buildings
Targets Construction Waste
Location: Central & atern urope
We have een encouraging KFC franchiee acro Central and atern urope to focu on
reducing contruction wate to keep unwanted material out of landfill. With more
attention, franchiee will e ale to reccle 26% more contruction wate than wa done
lat ear. Thi i an example of how we are appling leon learned from Yum’ lueline
green uilding roadmap.
A part of thi effort, we have een mindful of our retaurant deign and have ale to
reduce wate  reducing the need to cut cladding panel and other product  uing
marter dimenioning. In 2014 thi aved and etimated 35,521 q. ft. of material (3,300m2)
wate in new and remodeled uilding.
Goal: Green Buildings
Bright Green Commitment
Location: Indianapoli, Indiana, UNITD STATS2KFC US ha een working up the recipe for a ucceful, home cooked utainailit approach focued on delivering an improved environmental
footprint, world cla cutomer experience and long-term hareholder value. We are proud of our LD Gold certified tet tore located in
Indianapoli, Indiana that opened in 2011. Thi tore uccefull reduced energ ue and cot  25%  incorporating approache uch a
reducing the uilding footprint, efficient kitchen equipment, an optimized HVAC tem and high efficienc lighting. In addition we looked to
improve our ue of material  including product with reccled content, contruction wate reccling, and white roofing to reduce the heat
iland effect.
Man of thee innovation have een incorporated into our evolving uilding deign going forward through toda. We are committed to the
goal of 100% LD certifiale uilding. The know how uilt in thi project allow German to commit to the goal of having all LD certifiale
uilding through the implementation of lueline tandard. Thi i the recipe that will drive cot effective environmental improvement
through a focu on energ efficienc, water conervation and uilding ize reduction.
Goal: Green Buildings
Colonel’s Home Cooked Recipe for Sustainability
Location: raunchweig, GRMANY
In 2014 an impreive KFC received LD Silver certification in the cit that firt roe to
prominence in the Middle Age; raunchweig, German. Thi retaurant howcae the
culmination of KFC German’ long-tanding effort to reearch new technologie and
uild greener retaurant. Thee include energ management tem, waterle urinal,
tate of the art heating and air-conditioning tem, heat recover and LD lighting to
name jut a few. Thee approache are now tandard throughout all German KFC
retaurant.
The know-how uilt in thi project allow German to commit to the goal of having all
LD certifiale uilding though the implementation of YUM! lueline tandard. Although we are proud of thee achievement, we recognize
that there i more work to e done along German’ utainailit journe and we are committed to teting new technologie and approache.
Goal: Green Buildings
Franchisee scores goal with Sustainability
Location: Mexico
Our KFC and Pizza Hut franchiee in Mexico, Premium Retaurant rand, ha cored a goal with utainailit. A Pamela Vaga, Sutainailit
Manager aid, “Not onl i it good for the environment, it make ene for the ottom line.” It ha een intituted a a trategic pillar of their
uine focued on the fundamental categorie of energ, water, wate & reccling and people & culture.
Greener retaurant are a core component of thi plan and important change are eing made to retaurant deign, contruction and operation
to upport the utainailit viion. Thee include the ue of LD lighting fixture, energ management tem, high efficienc water fixture
and the reccling of ued cooking oil.
Thee are tarting trategie on the utainailit path in Mexico, however, the jo i not et finihed. The franchiee continue to eek
improvement and to grow upon thee earl reult with new innovation and approache. With thi continued focu, additional goal will no
dout e cored.
Goal: Green Buildings
KFC STRIKES GOLDLocation: Chennai, India
In 2013, a KFC retaurant in Chennai, India achieved LD Gold certification. The eant Nagar tore earned a core of 76 LD point,
urpaing the 60 LD point required to achieve a gold rating and achieving the highet core for a Yum! retaurant.
Within one ear of operation, the retaurant aved 42% of water  uing fixture deigned for lower water ue and cutting 30% in energ cot
through technologie uch a high efficienc air conditioning, ventilation, low-power LD lighting and more efficient kitchen equipment. The
retaurant' coatal location i particularl helpful in conerving energ. Senor located adjacent the uilding' generou window help control
artificial lighting allowing the retaurant to rel on unlight during the da. In addition, a olar collector on the roof ait in pre-heating water,
reducing the need for foil fuel.
The team developed and intalled ignage that highlight the green apect of the uilding. Thi allow cutomer to learn aout how KFC i
working to improve the environment while enjoing their favorite KFC food.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
Illuminating Development
Location: Autralia
Acro Autralia KFC aociate at compan-owned retaurant are turning on the light
with confidence with the knowledge that the are efficientl illuminating our retaurant.
Dining room general lighting ha een retrofitted with efficient LD technolog. Thi
retrofit i etimated to reduce energ conumption of lighting up to 70%. Parking lot
light have alo een improved a metal halide technolog ha een replaced with lower
wattage induction light. The are not onl energ efficient ut lat an etimated five
time a long. We are currentl in the proce of completing thi change acro all of our
compan-owned location in Autralia.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
Smarter is Better
Location: Autralia
xhauting hot air from aove
cooking equipment i an important
requirement for all retaurant. Thi
i alo a major ue of energ. To
reduce energ conumption, et
maintain needed exhaut, we added
control where the exhaut fan
know when equipment i turned on
and cooking. A a reult, the
control can reduce the exhaut rate when the cooking equipment i not eing ued to ave energ. Thi tem ha een implemented in all of
our compan-owned retaurant in Autralia.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
Power of the PeopleLocation: Autralia
Our retaurant general manager are eing educated aout the importance of energ
conervation and have een provided with an online portal to view their retaurant’
energ uage trend data. Acce to thi near-live information empower them to take
ownerhip of energ conumption and to make adjutment to reduce uage. Uing thi
tool the can evaluate if their morning “power-up” chedule, which encourage them to
witch on equipment onl when needed, i eing ued effectivel. Thi ha een
implemented in compan-owned retaurant and acro the majorit of franchied tore.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
A Proper lighting retrofit
Location: UNITD KINGDOM
One of our highl ucceful initiative from our certified green uilding project ha een
LD lighting. We have een o impreed with it performance that we have now
retrofitted it into all compan-owned retaurant. With thi change the expectation i to
ave 75% of our lighting energ while continuing to provide 100% of the lighting needed
to provide an exciting and inviting experience to our cutomer and aociate.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
LED LIGHTING
Location: UNITD STATS
A mall ut utantial change wa
made to the interior Taco ell
lighting deign in 2013. Retaurant
ae deign were updated to
include dining room LD ceiling
light a tandard. Thi change will
ave energ, and will alo reult in le wate and time pent  emploee changing light ul due to the new technolog and ueful life of the
product. The rand’ new interior lighting deign i implemented acro all new retaurant and wa included in man of the renovation in
2014, reulting in over 25,000 fixture intalled and utantial aving.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
OPTIMIZED LIGHTING
Location: CHINA
Going green i not a detination, it i a journe—that' our philooph at Yum!. Our journe to optimized lighting in China i a great example. In
a erie of tep we have worked to refine oth the amount of lighting and applied technolog to provide utantial energ aving and improve
the look of our KFC dining room.  uing thi technolog, we have een ale to achieve a 50% reduction in lighting energ ue. In 2014, we
rolled out thi new lighting deign into over 600 new and exiting KFC retaurant.
Goal: Energy EfficiencyGREENING THE FLEET
Location: UNITD STATS
eginning in 2009, we egan
implementing a trateg to reduce
our caron footprint and provide a
more fuel-efficient corporate
paenger vehicle fleet in the United
State. Since the tart of the
program, we have cut CO  emiion
 eliminating vehicle with ix-
clinder engine and increaing the ue of hrid. Hrid vehicle accounted for 20% of new vehicle order in 2014. A a reult of thee
meaure, we have reduced CO  emiion  15% for paenger vehicle. However, due to uine need, the quantit ervice van ha
increaed and reulted in a reduction of the improvement of our overall fleet CO  performance to 5% over our 2008 aeline. We will continue to
work for the increaed ue of hrid and improved fuel efficienc of ervice vehicle.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
ENERGY SAVING SYSTEM
Location: SPAIN
ver ince KFC opened it firt compan-owned tore in Spain, we’ve een working on
wa to reduce energ conumption and make our uilding greener. After tuding
poile option, it wa decided to develop a tem to automaticall control energ ue in
the retaurant. Determining how it would work wa the next quetion. aicall, we ue a
imple computer connected to the witche in the power panel. Our operation and qualit
aurance expert created a chedule which i programmed into the computer to witch on
and off everthing from dining room lighting to the cooking equipment. Thi marter
deign ha allowed u to reduce the tem ize  30%. The maller tem ha een ale
to generate an annual energ aving reduction of 15% and ha alo reduced the amount of
human intervention needed to run the retaurant efficientl. We will continue to work to reduce energ conumption and uild greener
retaurant.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Location: UNITD KINGDOM
In 2013, KFC UK commiioned an energ conultant to help develop an amitiou energ
reduction target and program for our retaurant to cut energ ue and caron. Following
the completion of the tud we announced our target of reducing total energ ue per
cutomer tranaction  20%  2020 from 2012. Our operation team will focu on ear-
over-ear improvement and an overall invetment of over $10 million in new and exiting
retaurant over the period to meet our goal.
Goal: Energy Efficiency2
2
2TACO BELL Parking Lot Lighting retrofit
Location: UNITD STATS
Acro the nation in 2014, Taco ell retaurant changed their parking lot lamp for
greater efficienc. During the coure of the project 6,841 lamp were changed for an
anticipated annual aving of jut over 1,000,000 watt. Replaced lamp were reccled in
whenever poile. Retrofitting our parking lot lighting with more energ efficient lamp
and fixture not onl reduced our operating cot, it improved overall lighting level
enhancing cutomer and emploee afet at night, and i good for the environment.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
TACO BELL Ramps Up AIR CONDITIONING ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Location: UNITD STATS
Taco ell i changing it new tore air conditioning tem deign to variale peed
technolog to help reduce it cot of operating a retaurant and reduce it caron foot
print. Rough etimate indicate a 20% or etter reduction in energ conumption when
uing variale peed technolog comined with high efficienc exhaut hood. Thi i the
firt tep in greater air conditioning efficienc. Taco ell feel there i much more
opportunit availale and intend to improve their performance in thi area of deign.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
RENOVATION OF YUM! HEADQUARTERS
Location: Louiville, Kentuck, UNITD STATS
In 2014, Yum! renovated half of our corporate headquarter and replaced over 1,900
fluorecent and incandecent light fixture with new LD lighting. The reulting change i
expected to ave 200,000 watt of electricit each ear. Thi will avoid the releae of an
etimated 457 metric ton of caron dioxide into that atmophere and i equivalent to
removing 96 paenger vehicle from the road. We will continue thi progre in 2015 a
we retrofit the remaining portion of our facilit.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
Lithuania Uses Smart lighting Control
Location: Lithuania
Although high efficienc lighting LD fixture are eing ued  man franchiee throughout Central and atern urope, KFC in Lithuania i
going further  improving how lighting i controlled. Occupanc enor detect if people are preent in area of the retaurant and if the room
i empt, lighting i reduced or turned off. ach tore i aving a total of approximatel 740 hour of lighting each ear.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
Energy ManagementLocation: South Korea
Reducing energ conumption i an
important component of developing
greener retaurant. Pizza Hut
compan-owned retaurant in
Korea are now uing all LD
lighting-inide and out. High
efficienc air conditioning i alo
eing ued. A a reult of thee
initiative an annual energ
reduction of approximatel 20% ha een achieved. Since 2013, over 90 uilding have
een completed with thee two upgrade. With the ucce of thee project we are eager
to continue our exploration of greener uilding.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
SOLAR POWER EXPERIMENTs AT TACO BELL
Location: California, UNITD STATS
In unn California, a forward thinking Taco ell franchiee intalled a 200 foot long roof
over the drive-thru that i covered with olar panel. Thi uilding i the firt completel
olar powered retaurant for the rand. Although it i not feaile for ever Taco ell
retaurant to e powered  the un at thi time, thi i an inpiring example of one
poile path to help our environment. An additional tet, although more limited, i eing
conducted at a retaurant outide of l Pao, Texa where we are evaluating olar panel
that can generate enough electricit to power aout 25% of our lighting.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
OPTIMIZED HVAC DESIGN
Location: CHINA
You might not expect that the deign and optimization of the Heating, Ventilation and
Air-Conditioning Stem (HVAC) i one of the mot important apect to controlling
energ conumption in a retaurant—ut it i. Deign mut provide a health,
comfortale environment uing the lowet amount of energ poile. Thi ound ea,
ut maintaining comfortale condition with low energ ue i a deign challenge. Our
team in China ha implemented the ue of high efficienc HVAC unit that var the flow of
refrigerant aed upon the cooling and heating need in the different area of our tore.
Thi HVAC tem ue energ onl when it’ needed providing a comfortale retaurant
and doing o ver efficientl.
Goal: Energy Efficiency
GETTING INTO HOT WATER
Location: SOUTH AFRICAAn innovative technolog i eing ued in KFC South Africa to provide hot water. Heat
pump tem, which take warmth out of the air and put it into water, i capale of
generating all of our hot water need while reducing energ conumption up to 60%
compared to our traditional tem. entiall a heat pump work inverel to an air-
conditioning unit. A an added enefit, cool air i generated a a product of thi the
proce and improve comfort. We are currentl uing heat pump in 50% of our compan
owned retaurant in South Africa with plan to add to the remaining alance of the
retaurant in the next two ear. Heat pump are helping u upport a reponile and
utainale energ program.
Goal: Water Conservation
TACO BELL REDUCES IRRIGATION WATER
Location: UNITD STATS
Irrigation prinkler are one of the hidden uer of water. The are et to run earl in the
morning efore our facilitie open. We are aware of thi conumption and are
implementing water conerving technologie. uilt on the ucceful implementation of
meaure at the Yum! corporate office in Louiville, Kentuck where we reduced water
conumption  30%, amounting to aout 1 million gallon of water each ear, Taco ell
took up the caue and rolled out improved irrigation tem in man of it U.S. location
in 2014. With the improvement, we have reduced irrigation water conumption  an
etimated 40%.
Goal: Water Conservation
ReDUcing water Consumption
Location: Czech Repulic
Franchiee are finding that water conervation doe not have to e challenging and
make financial ene. KFC retaurant in the Czech Repulic, Cpru and Romania are
uing water aving technologie uch a low flow faucet and low flow fixture. Water
conumption i etimated to have een reduced  12%  appling thee approache. Thi
i an example of how we are appling leon learned from Yum!’ lueline green uilding
roadmap to reduce our environmental footprint  making etter ue of our reource.
Goal: Water Conservation
Making every drop count
Location: Autralia
Water conervation i a concern in man part of Autralia and at KFC we are continuing to trive for greater efficienc in new tore through a
range of water-aving meaure including the intallation of water efficient landcaping, high efficienc water faucet and retroom fixture. In
addition, aove ground water tank are eing teted in 15 location to evaluate the potential of uing collected rainwater to reduce potale water
ued for landcape irrigation.
Goal: Water ConservationConserving Water at Yum! Headquarters
Location: Louiville, Kentuck, United State
We’ve carefull tudied the water
ued for irrigation for our
retaurant and a part of thi effort
high efficienc pra valve
comined with intelligent control
have een intalled at Yum!’
headquarter in Louiville, KY.
Although at the time of the deign,
the change wa etimated to reduce
water uage  over 30%, careful meaurement revealed a different reult. In 2014, the firt full calendar ear after having updated our irrigation
tem, we were pleaed to meaure aving lightl more than 1.1 million gallon which delivered a nearl 40% reduction in water ue while
maintaining a health and green landcape.
Goal: Water Conservation
INNOVATIVE RAINWATER USE
Location: Orlean, FRANC
eneath a KFC parking lot in France i a 10,000 liter tank that hold rainwater collected
from the roof. Although not een  man people, thi tem provide water to retroom
anitar fixture. Thi tet, our econd for rainwater harveting in France, ha een ale to
reduce our reliance on the anitar ue of potale water  approximatel 80% during
2014.
Goal: Water Conservation
EFFICIENT FAUCETS
Location: Chennai, India
Cutomer and aociate at our
LD retaurant in Chennai, India
are now wahing their hand in a
more earth-friendl wa. Thi
facilit intalled highl efficient
water aving generator in 2012.
Thee mall inert for faucet
control the flow rate of water and
ield ignificant water aving. In fact, we anticipate a aving of over 18,000 gallon of water per ear.
Goal: Paper-Based Packaging
Making Strides with SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING
Location: CHINAYum! China ha made tride in the utainailit of it packaging. In 2013, the team reduced the weight of tra liner and french fr oxe and
alo optimized the tructure of their congee cup to reduce the volume tranported annuall. Progre continued in 2014 with the replacement
of platic owl, ag and cup with paper packaging in Jilin Province. Ongoing project look to change ome platic cup to paper in other
location acro China.
Goal: Paper-Based Packaging
LEADING THE PACK
Location: KFC SOUTH AFRICA
While man South African are proud to claim that Johanneurg i the larget, man-made uran foret, there i even more reaon for them to
e proud of South Africa’ leading poition in offering utainale packaging. Our paper packaging i made either from reccled paper, or from
100% FSC (Foretr Stewardhip Council) certified virgin paper from utainale foretr operation. At KFC South Africa, we have een driving
to achieve maximum reccled content in our paper packaging.
Goal: Paper-Based Packaging
INNOVATIVE Pizza Boxes
Location: PIZZA HUT MIDDL AST/NORTH AFRICA: INNOVATIV PIZZA OXS
A part of our utainailit journe in the Middle at and North Africa, we have
partnered with a compan, covention, LLC, to implement their innovative pizza ox
deign, named The Greenox, in our Pizza Hut retaurant. Thi ox i manufactured from
reccled material and ha other advantage uch a the ailit to tranform into individual
erving plate and fold into a maller pizza ox for toring leftover. It imple rown
paper deign replace our previou full color pizza ox in the region ince 2014; aving
energ, water and other reource. Thi imple et effective packaging improvement
demontrate our deire to lead  example a we work to reduce our environmental
footprint continuing to erve hot, freh pizza to our cutomer.
Goal: Paper-Based Packaging
PARTNERING for better packaging
Location: INDIA
In India, we partner with ITC
Limited to ource 100% of our
paperoard. Thi compan i known
for it commitment to utainale
practice. ITC i the firt paper
compan in the countr to otain
Foret Stewardhip Council Foret
Management (FSC FM) certification. The alo etalihed India’ firt ue of elemental chlorine free fier line and ozone leaching technolog.
Since earl 2014 our paperoard packaging in India ha een FSC certified. Optimized packaging deign and pecification have alo allowed u
to reduce our conumption of paperoard  8 metric ton annuall. We are pleaed that our effort and thi partnerhip have een ale to
reduce our environmental footprint on the planet.Goal: Waste Recovery & Recycling
KFC TURNS 60,000 OLD UNIFORMS INTO NEW CARPET
Location: AUSTRALIA
A KFC Autralia uniform get a new look, the one the're replacing get a new life.
Approximatel 60,000 old uniform are in the proce of eing tranformed into 25,000
q. meter (269,000 q. feet) of commercial grade carpet underlament.
"It' incredil important that we look for wa to repurpoe unneeded product from our
tore and reduce wate and energ conumption acro our entire retaurant network,"
aid KFC Autralia Chief Suppl Chain Officer Michael Clark, noting the project preented
ignificant operational and logitical challenge that "forced KFC to reall think outide
the ox."
To collect uniform from more than 600 tore acro the countr, KFC i partnering with
our upplier to pick up the uniform during routine deliverie, then end approximatel
7,000 kilogram (15,000 pound) of material from their ditriution center to Pacific
NonWoven, a fier technolog compan that will handle the repurpoing.
Goal: Waste Recovery & Recycling
World Class waste recovery
Location: GRMANY
KFC German, with the aitance of our partner, ha achieved a remarkale reult in our
effort to reduce our wate on the environment. Approximatel 99% of all wate that we
collect in the retaurant i reccled or recovered according to the reult of our latet
tud. We do thi  eparating wate into five different tream: paper, food crap,
platic & metal, reidual wate and wate for recover. Thi extremel effective tem
ha allowed u to ave an etimated 7.2 metric ton of raw material a well a avoiding the
generation of 23.8 megawatt hour of energ with an equivalent releae of 4 metric ton of
CO  into the atmophere.
Goal: Waste Recovery & Recycling
Pizza Hut targets Zero Waste to Landfill
Location: United Kingdom
Pizza Hut UK ha targeted zero wate to landfill for compan-owned retaurant  the
end of 2015. Anali ha hown that thi can e achieved  diverting 90% of generated
wate to reccling center with the remaining 10% ent to an energ recover plant. Full
wate eparation of wate ha een rolled out in Scotland and for compan-owned deliver
ite in the outheat region of ngland. For retaurant equipped with frer, ervice are
eing put in place to collect wate oil for removal and converion into iodieel. We are
committed to working to reduce wate and reccling in the UK and have ecome a
Hopitalit and Food Service Agreement (HaFSA) ignator with WRAP.2Goal: Waste Recovery & Recycling
Do the Right Thing, Use the Right Bin
Location: AUSTRALIA
KFC Autralia i a pioneer in reccling a it i the firt quick ervice retaurant tem to
participate in the nationwide reccling initiative, "Do the Right Thing, Ue the Right in,"
a pulic-private partnerhip funded  the Autralian Packaging Covenant.
To date, new reccling tem for pulic ue have een intalled at over 185 KFC
retaurant acro Autralia, providing reccling opportunitie to our cutomer. We have
had ucce to date with a total diverion of 89 metric ton of commingled wate from
landfill in 2014. Our reccling program will continue to grow in new area uch a front-of-
houe for ottle, can and Kruher cup.
Goal: Waste Recovery & Recycling
recyCling in our kitchens
Location: AUSTRALIA
Of coure, reccling in our dining
room i important ut we don’t
forget our kitchen. Our KFC
retaurant reccle ued canola
cooking oil. To do thi we work with
an accredited third part upplier
who collect the oil in the tore and
conve it to reccling plant to
make product uch a iodieel and
animal feed. Currentl thi i occurring in 98% of our compan-owned retaurant and will continue to increae thi a the ervice ecome
availale.
KFC Autralia alo proudl reccle corrugated cardoard at 98% of our compan-owned tore a well a in the majorit of franchiee tore. In
2014, we diverted 1,953 metric ton of wate from our cardoard reccling program.
Goal: Waste Recovery & Recycling
Corporate Offices Embrace Reduce, Reuse, Recycle
Location: Louiville, Kentuck, United State
Corporate office through the United State are focuing on the Three-R trateg of wate recover: Reduce, Reue and Reccle. Office paper,
corrugated cardoard, platic, gla, atterie and aluminum are collected and reccled. In 2014 alone, we reccled over 269,000 pound of
paper and 63,000 platic drink container. We are alo triving to increae the reccled content in our office upplie. Currentl aout 11% of all
office uppl product include reccled material.
Goal: Engaging Communities with Sustainability
Food for HopeLocation: United Kingdom
We are providing food to ome of
the mot diadvantaged
communitie in the United Kingdom
through a food wate collection
program currentl eing piloted in
four location, with another five
cheduled for earl 2015. We
anticipate that up to a metric ton of
food per tore can e donated each
ear through our local charit partner including Ace of Clu, Salvation Arm, YMCA
London and NOAH nterprie. Our plan i to roll out the program to additional location
in 2015.
Goal: Engaging Communities with Sustainability
SUPPORTING FOODBANK AUSTRALIA
Location: AUSTRALIA
KFC Autralia participate in Foodank’ Food Recue Program, allowing donation of
ueale product to people in need. Through our effort, 85% of our upplier have alo
igned up to e national ignatorie with Foodank. To date, we have donated more than
87,000 kilogram of food, equating to over 116,000 meal.
“KFC provide u with an arra of ingredient from meat to auce and eaoning, all of
which are a great addition to our tock lit. The two and a half thouand charitie we
uppl with food around the countr appreciate the variet a it enale them to provide
tat and nutritiou meal a well a veratile home hamper. With KFC’ help we’re
triving to enure that no one in Autralia goe hungr.” Greg Warren, General Manager
Foodank Autralia.
Goal: Engaging Communities with Sustainability
KFC SCOOTS RESPONSIBLY
Location: MALAYSIA
Cutomer in Malaia can call for home deliver with the atifaction of knowing that
their deliciou KFC meal are delivered hot and freh on electric cooter that are etter for
the environment. The cooter are plug-in vehicle that can e recharged at an outlet and
emit zero caron dioxide, moke and noie to the treet. In addition to lowering the
compan' caron footprint, the alo lower cot and decreae deliver time. KFC
Malaia currentl ha over 100 electric cooter in it fleet and i leading the pack among
quick-ervice retaurant  introducing electric cooter for deliverie.
Goal: Engaging Communities with Sustainability
Louisville Sustainability CouncilLocation: Louiville, Kentuck, United State
Acting locall i important and in our home town of Louiville, Kentuck, Yum! i an
active memer in effort to create a utainale and health communit. The Louiville
Sutainailit Council i a pulic-private partnerhip that work to engage and collaorate
with the communit to facilitate the achievement of the cit’ pulihed utainailit
goal.
The five action team that have een etalihed  the organization repreent a road
pectrum of the communit and addre area of concern uch a tree canop, green
econom and communit engagement. The organization, in partnerhip with the
Louiville Office of Sutainailit manage the communit’ participation in the Star Communitie program which i the nation’ firt
tandardized, comprehenive framework for evaluating the utainal of citie. Yum! i an important contriutor in thi organization and it
on the oard of director for the organization.Yum! rand 2014
Corporate Social Reponiilit Report
Reporting Library
We elieve that having clear accountal to our CSR effort i eential to demontrating our true commitment to eing a good corporate
citizen. With thi in mind, we will continue to make availale our current and pat report to provide takeholder a mean to track our
progre over time.
Yum! CSR Report
2008
2010
2012
2013
2014
Performance Summarie
2014
Market CSR Report
KFC Autralia
KFC FranceKFC United Kingdom and Ireland