Yum China
CSR and Sustainability Report 2017
Table of Contents
Remarks by Yum China CEO
 
About Yum China
Our Food
 
Our People
Our Community
Our Environment
Final Remarks
About the Report
GRI G4 Content Index05
07
09
27
43
63
76
77
78I am delighted to present the 2017 Yum 
China Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) and Sustainability Report, our first 
such report as an independently listed 
company.
Our story in China started three decades 
ago in 1987 when we opened our first 
KFC restaurant in Beijing. Since then we 
have expanded our portfolio to include 
8,112 restaurants under 5 different brands. 
Throughout this time, we’ve remained 
involved in our communities and committed 
to making a difference in the economic and 
social development of China. 
Last year we celebrated the 10th anniversary 
of our flagship CSR initiative, the Yum 
China One Yuan Donation Program. This 
program is one of the largest public donation 
campaigns in China, having raised over 
170 million RMB and distributed more than 
37.4 million nutritious meals to children in 
impoverished areas across China. Another 
highlight program is the KFC Little Migratory 
Birds Fund, which continues to grow fast. 
Last year, the program supported more than 
1,000 communities and over 600,000 left-
behind children in China with books and 
reading programs. Food safety remains a top priority for Yum 
China, and we work tirelessly to promote 
balanced diets and healthy lifestyles. In 
2017, Yum China formed the CNS-Yum 
China Dietary Health Foundation with the 
Chinese Nutrition Society (“CNS”). This 
partnership is built on our long history 
of supporting research in nutrition and 
balanced diets, and is steadily expanding 
the breadth and depth of nutrition and 
dietary research in China. 
As one of the largest employers in China, 
we continue to invest significant resources 
in developing our people. We foster a 
diverse and inclusive work environment and 
create a culture in which every employee 
enjoys equal opportunities. Our corporate 
culture also encourages environmental 
sustainability, and through this culture we 
are working to build greener restaurants, 
supply chains and communities.
We’ve made considerable progress in 
the past 30 years and we remain equally 
committed to working towards audacious 
sustainability goals, bringing more value 
to stakeholders and making a difference in 
China in the years ahead!Remarks by Yum China CEO
Joey Wat 
Yum China CEO 
Yum China Holdings, Inc. (“Yum China”) is the largest restaurant company 
in China with a purpose of making every life taste beautiful. From a single 
restaurant in 1987, the company has grown to have over 8,100 restaurants 
and over 450,000 employees in over 1,200 cities spanning every province 
and autonomous region across mainland China as of the end of March 
2018. 
Yum China became an independent, publicly-traded company on 
November 1, 2016. It has exclusive rights in mainland China to KFC, 
China's leading quick-service restaurant brand; Pizza Hut, the leading 
casual dining restaurant brand in China; and Taco Bell, a California-based 
restaurant chain serving innovative Mexican-inspired food. Yum China 
also owns the Little Sheep and East Dawning concepts outright.About Yum China
CHINAFoodWe serve millions of customers annually and we are proud of the trust customers put in us and our food. From raw materials 
to our supply chain and restaurants, we make providing customers with healthy, nutritious and high-quality food products 
our most important goal. We also actively participate in and support China’s national nutrition and health policies, taking the 
promotion of a balanced diet and providing healthy food choices as one of our most important responsibilities.
To achieve these goals, we are always committed to:Our Food
We are passionate about serving delicious food that lives up to the trust our customers place in us and meets 
the highest safety and quality standards across every aspect of our business.
Serving delicious, safe and high-quality food to 
our customers through standardized restaurant 
management systems, audits and inspections, 
trainings and other food safety measures.
Institutionalizing rigorous management and 
control systems to ensure that our suppliers’ 
production operations, business management 
practices and product standards comply with all 
relevant laws, regulations and specifications; we 
also require that Yum China suppliers maintain a 
strong commitment to social responsibility.Only sourcing and using raw materials, food 
packaging materials, food processing equipment 
and tools that comply with the relevant laws, 
regulations and specifications.
Protecting food safety and product quality 
throughout the entire supply chain with our 
advanced cold chain storage and distribution 
system.

Yum China attaches great importance to nutrition and health and is committed to providing customers with a 
wide range of delicious meal choices. In fact, our journey in China has been fueled by our ability to create unique 
products that appeal to our consumers. At Yum China, we have a professional food innovation team dedicated to 
creating products for our KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Little Sheep and East Dawning brands. This team develops 
products that bring exciting new flavors and choices to customers – always with an eye on providing balanced 
and nutritious meals in major food groups such as proteins, carbohydrates, dairy, fruits and vegetables. The food 
innovation team also utilizes various cooking methods to develop hundreds of new products each year.Balanced and Nutritious MealsBased on ongoing customer feedback and insight, we have 
steadily increased the number of menu choices we offer 
for key meal categories such as main meals, sides, drinks, 
salads and desserts across all dining occasions - covering 
breakfast, lunch, afternoon tea, dinner, late night meals and 
deliveries. Our product choices are further enhanced through 
year-round, limited-time offers (LTOs) that allow us to bring 
the latest food trends to our customers.
At KFC, we have expanded our product offerings from 15 to 
56 products as of the end of 2017. Our offerings currently 
include many locally relevant Chinese menu items. In the 
poultry category, in addition to our signature Original Recipe® 
fried chicken, we have created numerous menu extensions 
with innovative, delicious and nutritious new products. These 
products include crispy fried chicken, fried & roasted chicken 
burgers, chicken tortilla rolls, roasted chicken, chicken wings 
and many more. We have also introduced many local Chinese 
favorites, such as congee, rice rolls and rice dishes. KFC also 
offers products that give consumers more vegetable choices, 
as well as optional indulgence items like egg-tarts and ice 
cream. In the beverage category, KFC offers milk, bean-to-
cup coffee, a variety of tea drinks with fruits, soy milk and 
other choices.More Product Choices
At Pizza Hut, in addition to our signature pan pizza, we have 
launched over 250 new menu products in the past several 
years. These products include pizza product line extensions, 
such as stuffed-crust pizza, thin-crust pizza, 4-in-1 pizza and 
pizza with Chinese toppings, as well as numerous classic 
Italian dishes such as pasta and risotto. Other innovative 
products include stone-grilled steak, rice dishes, beverages 
and dessert options. In the breakfast category, Pizza Hut has 
introduced Chinese and Western-style breakfast items that 
provide meat and vegetable choices.
At East Dawning, we offer consumers a variety of Chinese 
rice, noodle, side dishes, beverages and breakfast items. 
At Little Sheep, which mainly offers hotpot products, we 
provide a variety of fresh vegetables, soy products and 
other ingredients for customers, in addition to high-quality 
protein choices such as mutton and beef. In early 2017, Yum 
China opened China’s first Taco Bell restaurant in Shanghai, 
providing Mexican-American staple items such as tacos, 
burritos and quesadillas, as well as a variety of snacks, juices 
and breakfast burritos.

More Cooking Methods
In addition to expanding our menu options, we are also enhancing choices 
and nutritional value by applying multiple cooking methods in preparing 
our foods. These methods include frying, roasting, boiling, sautéing and 
grilling that combines modern food technologies with traditional preparation 
methods, while also bringing the best flavors and most consistent food 
quality to our customers.
Kid's Meals
Our Kid’s Meals offer delicious dining options and provide nutritious, 
healthy and balanced meals. Both KFC and Pizza Hut have launched 
Kid’s Meals that meet the requirements outlined in the Nutrition 
Principles, which were released by the Chinese Nutrition Society in 
July 2017, specify that kid’s meals should include a large variety of 
foods, including staple foods, vegetables, fruits, meat-based foods, 
eggs and milk.
Food safety is the top priority for Yum China and is a primary focus in all our restaurants. Our goal is to provide 
“Trust in Every Bite” by maintaining the highest possible restaurant operation standards, minimizing food 
safety risk for our customers. To this end, Yum China has developed a comprehensive restaurant food safety 
and quality control system that includes food safety standards, quality control and management programs, 
surveillance routines and restaurant employee trainings.Ensuring Wholesome, Tasty Food in Our Restaurants

Restaurant Food Safety and Quality Control 
Programs
Yum China’s food safety and quality control programs consist of many 
standardized, industry-leading restaurant operating measures and 
processes to drive consistent safety standards, food quality and flavors 
in every restaurant. Our restaurant operating measures and processes 
include raw material receiving, food and raw material storage temperature 
control, product shelf-life management, product thawing and cooking, as 
well as personnel hygiene, equipment cleaning and disinfection standards. 
In addition to these programs, Yum China’s quality assurance team 
further enforces the food safety and quality standards of our restaurants 
by conducting unannounced food safety audits, product quality checks, 
microbiological tests and process compliance checks at regular intervals.
Beyond these programs, we also make food safety and product quality an 
integral part of our corporate culture. Through our employee culture, our food 
safety and product quality standards are upheld by employees at all of our 
restaurants. Yum China’s Employee Handbook stipulates that all employees 
must strictly abide by all relevant laws and regulations in China, as well as 
by the company’s policies.Food Safety and Quality Management for Delivery 
Service
As food delivery and technology-enabled dining options become increasingly 
popular, Yum China has multiple programs to protect all aspects of food 
safety and quality in our delivery service. We have implemented a series 
of measures including: delivery time, establishing dedicated delivery 
workstations, using Yum China’s patented delivery box with a thermal 
insulation function and cleaning and disinfecting delivery boxes on a regular 
basis.
Yum China also requires all third-party delivery partners to sign a Letter of 
Commitment on the Standardized Implementations of Delivery Food Safety 
and Quality, specifying clear requirements for regulatory compliance, staff 
management, catering requirements, delivery facilities and equipment.
One of Yum China’s competitive advantages and value propositions is our expertise and focus on food safety 
from “farm to fork”. Since our entry into China, we have invested enormous time, people and financial resources 
to build a holistic supply chain management system to safeguard food safety throughout the entire supply chain.Wholesome, Tasty Food from Our Supply Chain

Supplier Food Safety and Quality Management
Yum China has approximately 1,000 professional supply chain 
management team members in Food Safety, Quality Assurance, 
Procurement Management, Warehousing & Logistics, and Engineering 
functions. Yum China has also developed a world-class supply chain 
management system. Our people resources and management system 
allow us to ensure direct, effective management of suppliers, and to 
drive continuous improvements.
Yum China implements a stringent supplier qualification and 
management process that includes supplier qualification checks 
and on-site audits on the suppliers’ compliance to Yum China food 
safety standards, product quality and upstream supplier management 
standards. All suppliers must sign Yum China’s Procurement Terms 
and Conditions, making a contractual obligation to guarantee that all 
products supplied to Yum China are in compliance with all relevant 
Chinese food laws and regulations, as well as with Yum China’s 
technical standards on matters such as product ingredients, raw 
material standards, packaging specifications and quality assurance 
system documents.
We conduct announced and unannounced onsite audits to ensure 
suppliers’ food safety and quality management systems meet relevant 
laws and regulations and Yum China’s requirements. We review 
and evaluate suppliers’ quality performance regularly, and adjust 
our oversight and control requirements accordingly to drive higher 
performance standards. We also promote continuous improvements of 
suppliers’ capabilities by providing feedback on performance relative 
to our targets, sharing best practices and hosting workshops/training 
sessions. 
Supply Chain Food Safety
We are constantly evaluating potential risks in the food 
industry supply chain. We have a dynamic food safety 
risk monitoring, risk research, risk assessment, risk 
management and risk mitigation system to help us 
constantly stay ahead of the curve, and to fortify our food 
safety defenses. 
In 2006, Yum China established the Yum China Food 
Safety Advisory Committee (Committee) - the first 
such Committee in China. The Committee consists of 
experts in the fields of food safety, food inspection, 
microbiology, contamination prevention, animal husbandry 
and agriculture. As of the end of 2017, 24 workshops 
and nearly 200 presentations had been conducted. This 
Committee provides a platform upon which experts from 
various fields can share experience and insight, advance 
research and best practices on food safety management 
from China and from around the world-for incorporation 
into our management systems when possible.

Responsible Sourcing
As China’s largest restaurant, we are aware that our procurement decisions can have a substantial impact on the industry. 
Yum China actively cultivates a network of supply chain partners that are committed to social responsibility on topics including 
legal compliance and operational integrity. All suppliers must sign the Yum China’s Supplier Code of Conduct and the 
Procurement Terms and Conditions - committing to complying with relevant laws, regulations and Yum China’s standards.
Yum China is gradually implementing a system to assess social responsibility compliance among our suppliers. By assessing 
all major employment and operational standards, we ensure that suppliers use lawful employment practices, have in place 
sound labor contracts, employee health and safety plans, and environmental protection measures, such as wastewater 
discharge treatment and waste disposal systems.
Safe and Reliable Logistics Systems
Yum China operates an advanced, wholly-owned logistics system with 
management teams that manage a network of 17 logistics centers and 2 
consolidation centers across China. We have robust programs to provide 
efficient, safe and reliable products and services for every restaurant in the Yum 
China brand portfolio. For example, our logistics centers have a standardized 
cold-chain management system to monitor and manage temperature changes for 
products moving in, during storage and moving out of the warehouses. All trucks, 
tractors or trailers shipping goods to and from the logistics centers must meet 
established temperature and sanitation standards. Our logistics centers have 
also been progressively equipped with Warehouse Management System (WMS) 
with automated product tracking from suppliers, logistics centers and restaurants 
to provide added assurance to our supply chain integrity.

The food industry is undergoing rapid change and constant evolution. As one of the largest restaurant companies 
in China, Yum China proactively studies and develops our strategies on critical industry issues whenever and 
wherever necessary.Yum China on Critical Industry IssuesAnimal Welfare
We only purchase chickens from large-scale chicken suppliers 
that demonstrate and maintain compliance with animal welfare 
regulations and practices. We require these suppliers to apply 
science-based management methods and abide by relevant 
laws and regulations in the production processes - from chicken 
breeding to processing. Additionally, all chicken suppliers 
must implement and adhere to Yum China’s animal welfare 
guidelines during poultry breeding and poultry slaughtering.
Veterinary Drugs 
We have comprehensive control measures regarding the 
use of veterinary drugs on livestock, poultry and aquatic 
products. We also conduct sampling tests on these products 
on a regular basis to ensure compliance with veterinary drug 
use as stipulated by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Affairs. We also have in place control measures for upstream 
animal farming. To further contribute to the development of the 
industry, we worked with poultry farming and safety experts to 
publish the “Yum China Broiler Breeding Technical Manual” 
and the “Yum China Management Guidelines on the Use of 
Veterinary Drugs in Broiler Breeding”. These manuals provide 
guidelines to the suppliers to develop and apply scientific 
farming practices, as well as ensure judicious use of veterinary 
drugs.Pesticides 
Yum China has strict measures in place to ensure that all 
pesticides used in farming are under control. We implement the 
following measures: 
suppliers and their upstream partners must comply with all 
relevant regulations in China; 
suppliers are required to step-up their tests on pesticide 
residue in agricultural ingredients, ensuring that the 
agricultural products supplied to Yum China comply with the 
relevant regulations and food safety standards of China; 
Yum China conducts sampling tests when necessary on all 
key agricultural ingredients.GMO
Yum China respects and supports related agricultural policies 
of the Chinese government, and follows all laws and regulations 
stipulated by the Chinese government for the safety evaluation, 
approval, and control of GMO foods. Yum China will continue 
to monitor developments regarding GMO technology and 
GMO food, as well as related regulations and standards in 
China. Yum China requires all suppliers to use and supply raw 
materials that comply with all relevant laws and regulations in 
China.
● 
● 
● 

In addition to providing our customers with food that is both nutritious and delicious, we’re also working tirelessly 
to promote knowledge of healthy lifestyles and balanced diets. We devote significant resources to supporting 
scientific research in dietary nutrition and popularizing knowledge on nutrition, health and food safety. We work to 
provide our customers with the best products, while also working to ensure that our communities benefit and gain 
from our presence in China.Support Scientific Research & Promote Food Safety 
and Nutrition Awareness in Our CommunitiesSupport Scientific Research in Dietary 
Nutrition and Health 
In May 2017, under the “Healthy China” national strategy, and 
working to jointly promote scientific research into dietary health, 
Yum China announced its partnership with the Chinese Nutrition 
Society (CNS) to launch the CNS-Yum China Dietary Health 
Foundation. The Foundation builds on the success of the KFC 
China Health Foundation, which was jointly established by Yum 
China and the China Red Cross Foundation in 2007.
The CNS-Yum China Dietary Health Foundation aims to promote 
a balanced and nutritious diet, and to improve the dining habits 
of Chinese citizens. Over the past 10 years, the Foundation 
provided approximately RMB 15 million in support of over 50 
scientific research and education programs. Since its inception, 
the foundation has grown to become the largest and most 
influential fund dedicated to dietary health research in China.The CNS-Yum China Dietary Health Foundation 
Announces Funded Projects
On November 29, 2017, the CNS-Yum China Dietary 
Health Foundation announced a list of projects that will 
receive grants from the foundation for the year. Out of 
more than 100 applications, experts and the administrative 
committee granted funding to seven initiatives, including 
the projects proposed by Li Huzhong from the China 
National Center for Food Safety Risk Assessment and Xu 
Weisheng from the health and nutrition unit at the Chinese 
Center for Disease Control and Prevention. All of the seven 
funded initiatives will focus on improving eating habits in 
China. 
On the same day, Yum China held its 10th Annual Nutrition 
Symposium in Shanghai, where experts and scholars 
discussed and shared cutting-edge research in the spheres 
of nutrition, health, and dietary habits in China.
Joey Wat, Yum China CEO, said at the event: “As China’s 
largest restaurant company, Yum China has always been 
committed to providing consumers with food that is 
both nutritious and delicious. We will continue to play an 
important role in advocating active, healthy lifestyles, and 
enhancing the understanding of well-balanced diets in 
China.”
Chen Junshi, a member of the Chinese Academy of 
Engineering (CAE), commented, “the Foundation’s goals 
are aligned with government initiatives, including the 
Healthy China 2030 Planning Outline and the National 
Nutrition Plan 2017-2030. These plans are designed to 
raise the level of health literacy and improve the diets and 
health of Chinese people. The efforts Yum China is putting 
into this initiative are having a tremendous impact.”

National Nutrition Week is a campaign initiated by a number of 
organizations and led by the China Nutrition Society. The campaign aims 
to promote the concept of nutrition and health and popularize nutrition 
knowledge. Yum China has provided support to National Nutrition Week 
for two consecutive years. During National Nutrition Week in 2016 and 
2017, 50 million National Nutrition Week-themed paper placemats were 
distributed throughout KFC restaurants across the country.
At the same time, Yum China constantly communicates nutrition and health knowledge to consumers via multiple methods and channels. In 
April 2017, we officially launched our nutrition and health education-
oriented WeChat account, titled “Best Foods & Best Sports”. The 
account was designed to help integrate the science of nutrition and 
health into people’s everyday life, promoting a healthy lifestyle through 
the concept of a balanced diet and exercise, while also popularizing 
nutrition knowledge among the public. Yum China also launched a 
featured column, “Balanced Diet”, on its official website to promote 
nutrition knowledge and health concepts.
Nutrition and Health AwarenessFood Safety Education
As the only enterprise supporting the campaign, Yum China has also 
been actively supporting and participating in the National Youth & 
Children Food Safety Education Campaign. This campaign, themed 
“ensuring food safety, promoting healthy development”, is jointly 
sponsored by the China Youth & Children Development and Service 
Center and the National Youth & Child Health and Safety Guidance 
Commission. Yum China works with the event’s organizers in a 
joint effort to promote food safety knowledge and corporate social 
responsibility. In the coming years, the campaign is expected to reach 
about 55 million people across thousands of schools and communities 
in hundreds of cities.
In addition to this campaign, we actively participate in and support 
numerous other campaigns and activities that work to popularize 
food safety knowledge from various scientific organizations, industry 
associations and related institutions. We also create initiatives to 
popularize scientific knowledge that promotes widespread scientific 
understanding of relevant food safety topics in light of public 
misconceptions about these topics.
 National Youth & Children Food 
Education Campaign
In June 2017, Yum China was a sponsor of the 
National Youth & Children Food Safety Education 
Campaign. This 5-day campaign was held at 
universities in Shenyang. To bring interactive and 
practical food safety and nutrition knowledge 
to college students and local communities, we 
invited Ms. Zhu Ying, a senior national public 
nutritionist and special lecturer for the Shenyang 
Nutritionist Association, to join the campaign. 
During her lectures, she answered questions 
about food safety raised by teachers and 
students, imparted knowledge about balanced 
diets and led several interactive games including 
“diet jigsaw” and “balanced diet marbles”.

PeopleYum China is one of the largest employers in China. We employ more than 450,000 employees across over 8,100 
stores as of the end of March 2018, serving millions of customers across China each day. Each of these employees 
is inspired to make and serve good food that creats wonderful customer experience.
Yum China is proud to provide systematic training and development opportunities that empower employees to build 
a successful career at the company. And we actively strive to foster a diverse and inclusive environment in which 
everyone enjoys equal opportunities to unlock their full potential.
We deliver on our commitment by focusing on four areas:Our People
At Yum China, the sustainability of our business starts with commitment to our more than 450,000 
employees. Yum China has created an inspiring culture that is founded on the principles: Fair, Care and 
Pride. We actively invest in our employees, ensuring they are skilled, engaged and proud of their jobs and 
are prepared for a successful career. Yum China aims to make every life taste beautiful.  
Our Core Value and Culture: Create, 
Share and Win Together
Employee Relations and Engagement: 
Attract, Retain and Grow the Best PeoplePeople Capability First: Unlock, Inspire 
and Foster the Potential of our People
Diversity & Equal Opportunity: Build 
an Inclusive Culture that Reflects 
the Diversity of Our Company and 
Customers
To bring our more than 450,000 employees together to achieve our vision of being "The World's Most Innovative 
Pioneer in Restaurant Industry", Yum China has created a blueprint for all: our core values and culture. That’s 
what inspires us, drives our work and pushes us to achieve breakthrough results.Our Core Value and Culture: 
Create, Share and Win TogetherWe believe that we should each find purpose in our work and we 
should ensure that employees are inspired to make a difference in 
their work, their life and the world. We take pride in providing best-in-
class food and experiences to our customers, and we strive to drive 
innovations that make every life taste beautiful.Our Purpose: 
Let's Make Every Life Taste Beautiful!
Our organizational core values are defined as “How We Create, 
Share & Win Together.” These values lay the groundwork for the 
way we work together every day. Our Core Value:
How We Create, Share & Win Together (HWWT3) 
No.1 RGM No.1:
Front-line Obsession as a Founding Truth
As one of our founding truths, Yum China has always believed in 
the principle that the Restaurant General Manager (RGM) is our 
No. 1 leader. RGMs hold the most important leadership position in 
the company and they are instrumental in driving business growth 
and customer satisfaction. As such, we never hesitate to invest in 
developing RGMs who are not only experts in operations, but also in 
delivering outstanding customer service that can drive our business 
forward. Yum China has implemented a systematic training roadmap to 
provide a career progression path for managers. Additionally, we offer 
stock ownership programs to all qualified RGMs. RGMs’ strong sense 
of ownership and pursuit of excellence will help Yum China continue 
to grow and generate good returns for shareholders and for RGMs 
themselves.Yum China Grants Stock Ownership to RGMs
In November 2016, Yum China announced a plan to 
grant Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) to all qualified 
RGMs at KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Little Sheep and 
East Dawning restaurants owned and operated by 
the company. Each eligible RGM received a one-time 
RSU grant valued at US$2,000.
“Yum China has always had a principle known 
as 'RGM No.1' because they serve the most vital 
leadership role on the front line of our business. The 
stock ownership program gives RGMs the opportunity 
to participate in the growth potential of this great 
company,” said Micky Pant, Vice Chairman and former 
Chief Executive Officer of Yum China. “This program 
also aims to incentivize each RGM to continue to 
deliver the very highest standard of service to our 
customers and the best results possible at their 
restaurants.”
By the end of 2017 - the same year as the 30th 
anniversary of Yum China’s entry into China -  more 
than 6,000 qualified RGMs were granted the RGM 
No.1 Award. Every year, the Award will be granted 
to newly qualified RGMs on the last trading day of 
February and August.
RGM Convention
Each RGM holds an important leadership position 
in the company. Having both accountability and 
ownership in their position, our RGMs consistently 
have a “Yes” attitude in serving customers. To 
thank them for their achievements, the company 
holds a nationwide event each year called the RGM 
Convention. At this grand event, our restaurant 
managers come together to learn more about Yum 
China’s corporate culture. At the same time, the 
RGM convention plays a key role as a platform for 
managers to exchange experiences and express their 
passion for the job.
Customer Mania: 
Serve Our Customer with a “Yes” Attitude 
We listen to and learn from our customers’ needs and we 
endeavor to develop the insights and foresight needed to meet 
them. Our Customer Mania obsession is embedded deep into 
our restaurant teams and support functions to ensure that all our 
people are inspired and empowered to do whatever they can to 
serve, surprise and delight our customers.Recognition:
Catch People Doing Things Right
Recognition is an integral part of our culture - we celebrate things 
big and small - because our culture is brimming with positive energy, 
teamwork and fun.
We have created many kinds of recognition awards to celebrate our 
employees’ positive actions and encourage them to make a difference 
in the company and in their communities. For example, the Clock 
Builder Award recognizes teams for their contributions to Yum China’s 
know-how building and sharing. In 2017, we introduced a new award, 
the Achieving Breakthrough Results (ABR) Award, which recognizes 
employee-led innovations in an effort to evolve Yum China into an 
even more innovative company.
Butterfly culture
Butterfly Culture is the core spirit of our culture of 
recognition, through which all employees are encouraged 
to use butterfly cards or pins to show their appreciation 
for each other. We believe that every small action will 
generate a "Butterfly Effect" that creates large scale 
impacts for many people. 
Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China, recognizes a Pizza Hut employee for her dedication and 
contribution.
 Our diversified operations throughout China demand an approach to building people capability that is customized 
and highly interactive – while also strong enough to remain consistent throughout China. People Capability First: 
Unlock, Inspire and Foster the Potential of Our PeopleBrand Operation Training:
A Best-in-Class Development System
At Yum China, we have created a world-class management training 
program for all of our restaurant employees at different levels. The 
program offers training and a career path to help people progress. 
In 2017 we delivered close to 14 million training hours for our crew 
members at KFC and Pizza Hut. For management trainees, months 
of training are tailored at each level to ensure that they unlock the full 
potential for their career development to RGM level.
Operational Leaders: Fostering Leaders Program
Yum China’s Fostering Operation Leaders Program has evolved 
from the Whampoa Academy, an award-winning program in people 
development.
The Whampoa Academy was once recognized by the Association for 
Talent Development (ATD) with an “Excellence in Practice Award” in 
the Organizational Learning & Development category.
The award recognizes exemplary practices in workplace education 
and talent development. In 2015, there were more than 125 entries 
across ten categories. At that time, Yum China was the only food 
service company to win the award. To keep up with the demands of 
the business, Yum China must recruit and train more than 10,000 
management trainees each year from within China’s highly-competitive 
talent market. In 2012, Yum China created the Whampoa Academy to 
incorporate in-store learning, classroom trainings and action learning 
after- class exercises. The course offers rapid career growth for 
recruits who are highly qualified and who have impressive educational 
backgrounds, but who lack work and restaurant experience. The 
Whampoa Academy trains these employees to be Restaurant General 
Managers within a brief period of time: 3-3.5 years, on average.
Achieve Breakthrough Results (ABR) Training Program
ABR is one of our core signature development programs at Yum 
China. It is designed to enable employees to build high intentionality, 
innovate and take bold actions. By the end of 2017, more than 1,700 
leaders have participated in the ABR program.
BREAKTHROUGH
RESULTS
BREAKTHROUGH
THINKINGBREAKTHROUGH
ACTIONINTENTIONALITY
Every year, more than 100 excellent RGMs qualify to be members of the 
company's Champion Club as a recognition of their achievements in sales 
growth, people retention and customer satisfaction. Yum China grants 
Coach Award to exceptional Area Managers every year for their relentless 
efforts in building up RGM capabilities.Career Development：
A Well-defined Operations Career Track
At Yum China, we are proud that 100% of our operational 
management team is developed and promoted internally. 
We have a clear career development track  that guides our 
employees’ career planning through different stages of 
their career.
Career Development Pathway
Our operation managers are a fundamental part of our 
company, comprising 90% of the company’s management 
team. We have a well-designed career track that works 
to develop talented management employees to fuel their 
potential.
The career pipeline illustrates how an employee will be 
trained from a management trainee to a restaurant general 
manager and eventually all the way up to market general 
manager. We have many senior leaders who started their 
careers at Yum China and who have achieved career 
success by following a career development path known as 
the “Bench Planning”.
We hope to leverage a plan to meet our rapidly-growing 
talent needs, while also reflecting our talent development 
philosophy that each successor will surpass their 
predecessor.
Internship Program  
We recognize the importance of recruiting and retaining 
young talent. Through our nationwide internship program, 
we seek to hire top-performing and hardworking college 
students that share our values. All program participants 
receive functional operating skills training required for 
on-the-job performance and they are offered career 
opportunities at Yum China after graduation.
Management TraineeAssistant ManagerSr.Assistant ManagerRestaurant General ManagerArea ManagerDistrict ManagerMarket General ManagerCareer 
Development Path
How We Lead (HWL) is the Yum China 
leadership model that is used in talent 
development, potential employee evaluation 
and recruitment. It uses the analogy of a 
sequoia tree – one of the tallest and oldest 
trees in the world – drawing on the spirit of 
“built to last.” In this model, good character 
serves as the roots of what we instill in our 
leaders. In addition to good character, we 
expect our leaders to build “take the hill 
team” and to drive breakthrough results.Our Leadership Model:  
How We Lead (HWL)We’re proud of the unique culture we've built – a culture that's filled with energy, opportunity and fun. We believe 
in our people, trust in their positive intentions, encourage ideas from everyone and actively develop workforce 
diversity. Yum China is a place where anyone can - and does - make a difference.Employee Relations and Engagement: 
Attract, Retain and Grow the Best People
Employee Rights & Responsibilities
All of our employees have the right to work in a fair and safe 
environment. Our Code of Conduct holds every employee 
accountable for treating our colleagues with respect and fairness, 
allowing them to be recognized and rewarded based on their 
performance. We also expect all of our employees and suppliers 
to comply with all applicable Chinese labor laws and regulations 
regarding wages, working hours and conditions. We do not allow 
harassment or discrimination because of age, gender, gender 
expression and/or identity, race, religion, national origin, sexual 
orientation, or physical abilities in the company.Ethics and Compliance 
The success of Yum China is built on the integrity and ethical 
standards of our employees. Our ethics and compliance program, 
based on our Code of Conduct, demands the highest ethical 
standards at all of our operations. 
At Yum China, our Code of Conduct is more than a document 
– it is the foundation for the way we conduct ourselves and do 
business. It calls for the highest standards of ethical behavior 
from our board members, executives and employees. Our Code 
of Conduct sets forth the policies and procedures regarding 
standards of conduct that are required of Yum China employees. 
The code of conduct is intended to help our employees conform 
to the highest ethical standards possible, and to protect the 
reputation of Yum China and our employees. 
Every year, mandatory compliance training is required for every 
employee to keep them refreshed with the compliance guidelines. 
The company also runs report mechanism that enables 
employees to report any noncompliance in daily work.
The Code of Conduct can be found on Yum China’s website.Health and Safety
Yum China is committed to providing safe and healthy work 
environments and to being an environmentally responsible 
corporate citizen. We make it our policy to comply with all 
applicable environmental, safety and health laws and regulations.
We are dedicated to designing, constructing, maintaining and 
operating facilities that protect our people and physical resources. 
On a regular basis, we review and upgrade employee’s protective 
equipment, conduct workplace safety audits, and provide training 
to employees on proper equipment handling procedures and 
related safety precautions.Compensation and Benefits 
Yum China offers comprehensive compensation and benefit 
programs to ensure our employees are fully rewarded for their 
individual contributions to the company while also helping 
employees drive their own career and personal growth.
We fully comply with Labor Laws and provide our full-time 
employees with a social insurance and housing fund. Engagement
Yum China believes that for employees to perform their best and achieve breakthrough results where they work, 
they need maximum energy as well as strong organizational support. One thing that we do at Yum China is 
engaging and connecting our employees at our restaurants through various interest groups called “family systems.” 
The family system is built to provide a platform for employees to collaborate and develop camaraderie through 
common interests. In this system, each frontline leader in the restaurant takes on a role as the coordinator of their 
team. Employees are divided into different teams based on their personal interests. Activities such as workshops, 
entertainment and competitions are held from time to time to incentivize, inspire and motivate our employees.
Yum China Champion Challenge
The Champion Challenge has become one of the most important 
events at Yum China every year. The nationwide campaign helps our 
restaurant employees enjoy their work and motivates them to improve 
their job-based skills. At the same time, our restaurant operations are 
also enhanced through employees’ positive engagements. 
Every employee is welcome to attend and compete with other teams. 
The winner of each workstation gets to represent the restaurant 
and participate in higher-level competitions from the district- to the 
regional- level and even to the national final. The final team that 
wins the national championship is recognized as the “Champion of 
Champions”.
Employee Communication
At Yum China, we believe “the more you know, the more you care.” 
Thus, we maintain multiple communication channels, online and offline, 
to enhance effective dialogues between management and employees. 
Through digital platforms such as WeChat and intranet portals we 
share business updates and corporate messages in a timely manner. 
We conduct surveys on a regular basis to understand the needs and 
expectations of our restaurant employees and to initiate improvement 
plans accordingly. To offer timely and comprehensive support, a 24-
hour hotline was launched with a dedicated team to respond to employee 
requests.
Founders' Day
On November 1st, 2016, five RGMs rang the listing bell to initiate a new beginning for 
Yum China. Since then, the company has been holding an annual Founders’ Day event 
on November 1st every year as a major employee communication event to celebrate 
the anniversary of Yum China becoming an independent, publicly-traded company. At 
the event we reward employees by recognizing their achievements and also share the 
company’s business developments and progress with all in attendance. This annual event 
helps further strengthen our corporate culture and increase a sense of ownership in the 
company.
We know that diversity and equal opportunity are critical to the long-term success of our business. We make 
sure to create a work environment where our employees feel appreciated and can be themselves. Inclusion is a 
business priority and promoting inclusion involves everyone in the organization.
Diversity & Equal Opportunity: 
Build an Inclusive Culture that Reflects the 
Diversity of Our Company and Customers
"We are very proud to have been included in the SSGA Gender Diversity Index. We firmly believe 
that gender should never be a factor in consideration for senior leadership positions, nor should it 
be a barrier to success. Yum China has always been committed to cultivating a workplace culture 
that is inclusive, diverse, and underpinned by an emphasis on meritocracy and hard work."
   —Micky Pant, Vice Chairman and former CEO of Yum China
Fairness is a fundamental principle of our people first philosophy. We uphold 
equal opportunity in employees’ lifecycle including recruitment, hiring, 
development, promotion and compensation without regard to age, gender, 
disability, sexual orientation, or other legally protected status. We maintain a 
professional, safe and discrimination-free work environment, recognize and 
compensate employees based on their performance. 
At the end of 2017, Yum China had over 278,000 female employees, 
representing nearly 61.5% of total our total workforce. In September 2017, 
Yum China joined the SSGA Gender Diversity Index, a select group of 
large-scale listed US companies committed to closing the gender gap and 
advancing women through gender diversity on their boards of directors and in 
senior leadership positions.KFC Angel Restaurants 
We take great pride in creating employment opportunities for people with 
disability. Our Angel Restaurant program is an innovative CSR program that 
provides employment opportunities to the disabled community.
This program, which began in 2012, operates by staffing a restaurant with half 
of the staff speech and hearing impaired or developmentally disabled. At these 
restaurants, specially-adjusted equipment is provided, such as flashing lights 
to alert employees that the deep-frying machine has finished cooking items, a 
service that is typically performed by an audio buzzer.
All staff at Angel Restaurants receive training and are assigned a buddy 
from the store’s management team. The company's training department 
also designs a specific training method based on the various situations and 
characteristics of "Angel" employees to make sure they are able to complete 
their work independently in a month’s time. Both the restaurant management 
team and regular staff work hard to learn sign language and ensure smooth 
communication with “Angel” employees.
As of the end of 2017, a total of 20 KFC Angel Restaurants opened in 19 cities.
Growing with an Angel Restaurant
Li Liang, 27 years old, became hearing-impaired due to a severe fever in his infancy. Upon 
graduating from college, Li left his hometown and came to Shenzhen to access more 
opportunities. The Shenzhen KFC Angel Restaurant was his second job.  Hardworking and 
quick to learn, Li was an exemplary employee.  In just over one year, Li proved himself ready 
for job advancement. He was promoted to the management team.  
“KFC is the second place I worked in Shenzhen. Everyone here is willing to communicate 
with me and that makes me feel like I’m not different from other young people here. If you 
came to the KFC restaurant in Jinshan, Luohu District in Shenzhen, I would say, ‘Hello! What 
would you like to order? I can serve for you!’ Yes, I can serve you, just like other KFC staff!”
CommunityWith over 8,100 restaurants across over 1,200 cities throughout China, our restaurants and our food are 
a part of the everyday lives of the people we serve. In addition to providing delicious and nutritious meals, 
we’re also committed to providing aid and opportunities that would make an impact in the communities in 
which we operate. Whether it’s providing supplementary meals for school children who might not otherwise 
have access to a nutritional meal or supporting active lifestyles through sport, we focus on the areas in local 
communities where our expertise and scale can make the biggest impact - poverty reduction, community 
care, children and youth development and healthy living.
Our Community
Our mission is not just to become the best restaurant operator in the world, but to improve the lives 
of those within the communities of which we are at the heart. Yum China leverages our resources to 
support and empower our communities and encourages our employees to do the same. 
At Yum China, we’re committed to feeding China with nutritious and delicious meals. We believe in giving back 
to the communities in which we work and live, and we believe that by working to alleviate poverty we can make a 
positive difference in the lives of our customers, employees, franchisees and their families. Alleviating Poverty and Nurturing the Next Generation One Yuan Donation Program: 
A Ten-Year Journey on Which Anyone Can Make an Impact on Society 
In 2017, the One Yuan Donation program celebrated 
its ten-year anniversary. Over the past ten years, the 
program has evolved and grown into a powerful source 
of funding and poverty alleviation. Through the program, 
anyone can make an impact on society and help to 
improve the lives of millions of people in need. 
Each year, the One Yuan Donation program runs in 
every KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and East Dawning 
restaurant across China for 2-3 weeks, encouraging 
customers and employees to donate a single yuan to 
help enrich the diets of children living in impoverished 
regions. The One Yuan Donation Program was founded 
in 2008 in partnership with the China Foundation for 
Poverty Alleviation (CFPA), one of China’s largest 
nongovernmental charitable organizations. Through the 
program, Yum China has built a network of fundraising 
locations across the country to harness the power 
of giving through scale. In addition to our restaurant 
donations and community campaigns, mobile and online 
donations have become increasingly important channels 
for engagement and activation of our customers. 
In 2017, the One Yuan Donation program raised and 
donated nearly RMB 20 million, and the program 
continues to broaden its scope in order to increase 
its impact on hunger alleviation. Meanwhile, it further 
promotes nutrition education, ensuring that children 
gain a better understanding of the value of a nutritious 
diet and the benefits that it has on their health and 
well-being. One such example from 2017 was our 
development and distribution of booklets explaining 
the fundamentals of a healthy diet. This booklet was distributed to students to provide them the resource both 
at school and at home. 
We have also worked to broaden the geographic reach 
of the program – expanding into locations in Xinjiang 
and Heilongjiang. In 2017, the “One Yuan Donation” 
program started at the Ye Yi Li Gan Elementary School 
in Xinjiang. At the kick-off event, former Yum China 
CEO and current Vice Chairman Micky Pant met 
students from the school and distributed nutritional 
meals to them before unveiling the new "Love Kitchen" 
that supports the elementary school in providing regular 
and nutritional meals for all its students. “This year marks the 10th year of the program and we are honored 
to provide a platform for customers and employees to contribute 
to and improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of school-
children in impoverished regions throughout China.”
   -Mickey Pant, Vice Chairman and former CEO of Yum China
The One Yuan Donation program is one of the largest 
public donation campaigns in China. 
110,000,000 170,000,000 860 547,000
More  than 110 million  customers  
have  donated  directly  to One Yuan  
Donation  program  in restaurants  
affiliated  with Yum China.  The total amount  of money  raised  
has surpassed  170 million  as 
of the end of 2017,  contributing  
to over 37.4 million  nutritious  
meals  distributed  to students  from 
10 provinces  including  Sichuan,  
Yunnan,  Guizhou,  Hubei,  Guangxi,  
Hunan,  Fujian,  Hebei,  Xinjiang  and 
Heilongjiang.  860  schools  in China’s  
impoverished  regions  have  been  
equipped  with “Love  Kitchens”.  The program  benefits  more  than 
547,000 students.The “One Yuan Donation” program is one of the earliest examples of a 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program in China that advocates 
the concept that “anyone can make an impact on society.” Ten years ago, 
when starting the One Yuan Donation Program, many CSR programs and 
funds found difficult to raise a large amount of small donations. However, 
for Yum China, it was the perfect initiative. We asked ourselves, rather 
than asking a single donor for a large sum, why not ask many donors 
for a small one? We serve and communicate with millions of customers 
daily, and we love making a positive impact on the lives of our customers 
– through our food, our superior service and our people – so why don’t we 
make an impact by giving our customers the chance to give back. From 
this, the “One Yuan Donation Program” was born.
Through this program, we have developed the core value of the “One 
Yuan Donation” program – namely, that “anyone can make an impact on 
society”. We’ve proven that beyond donating money, CSR activity can 
be an important platform and an important catalyst for change around 
important issues. We’ve raised enthusiasm and understanding of these 
issues, and we’ve made a significant impact on the lives of millions of 
people – both those receiving and those donating the funds. 
By the end of 2017, the program had raised more than RMB 170 million, 
with Yum China and its employees donating over RMB 35 million.
“There are three reasons contributing to the enduring 
success of the One Yuan Donation program. First, 
Yum China employees are fully engaged in the 
program and they share a strong sense of recognition 
in the program. Second, the concept that the 
program promotes, ‘micro public good’ has been 
broadly accepted by customers. Finally, the joint 
efforts of the CFPA and Yum China work to increase 
and ensure transparency and help the program win 
deep trust from its donors, which in turn attracts 
more people to join the program.”
 —Liu Wenkui, Vice President and Executive 
Director of CFPA
“In the past, many students were short and thin 
because they had just two meals a day. Their 
staple food was potatoes and their diets lacked 
protein. After the launch of the ‘One Yuan Donation’ 
program, students could enjoy an egg and some 
milk as nutritious meal options every day. ‘One Yuan 
Donation’ brings love from people across the country 
and it is making a big difference for the children here 
– they are stronger now and can concentrate more 
on school courses.”
—Li Wenfu, the Headmaster of Ao Zi Primary 
School, Yunnan
From One Yuan to Millions Our Stories with the "One Yuan Donation" Program
More children in impoverished areas have benefited from the program and have 
seen their nutrition improve over the years. At the same time, we continually 
explore ways to ensure the sustainability of the program and to address the 
challenges faced by the families in need. In September 2017, the “One Yuan 
Donation” potato charity sale took place through the KFC Super APP. The event 
aimed to help sell potatoes, which are a primary source of income for families in 
impoverished regions of Yunnan province. All of the net proceeds will be returned 
to local farmers to improve their economic and living conditions. We hope that we 
can leverage these innovative strategies to “teach people how to fish instead of 
giving them fish” and truly empower people’s lives.
Innovate to Empower: “To Teach People 
How to Fish Instead of Giving Them Fish ” The One Yuan Donation program is 
one of the most highly recognized 
programs in China.
The “Company of the Year” award at the 
China Annual Conference on Philanthropy.
“Outstanding Contribution Award” by the 
China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation 
(CFPA).
One of the top corporate philanthropy 
programs in China by the Nanfang 
Philanthropy Communication Award Jury 
Panel.
“Social Value Co-Creation” China CSR 
Excellence Award from the SIMENG CSR 
Promotion CenterIn the 30 years since we opened the first KFC restaurant in China, we have been living out our commitment 
to giving back to society with love. We have created a wide range of caring activities that consider real local 
situations in real communities, and we strive to provide care and improvement to benefit these local people’s 
lives.
Community Care
Bring Love into the Neighborhoods
Yum China has focused on giving back to society over the past 30 years as the 
company has grown its business in the country. Disaster relief and donation 
are together one of the most important community care initiatives that Yum 
China continuously makes to fulfill its commitment to the areas and customers 
served by Yum China restaurants. 
In August 2017, a 7.0-magnitude earthquake struck the Jiuzhaigou scenic 
area, causing widespread damage and injury. Yum China took immediate 
action by providing all-day food and beverage supplies to aid workers working 
at our restaurants. We quickly established a special fund to support the 
affected employees and their families. Yum China also donated 4 million 
RMB via the China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation to support post-disaster 
reconstruction and recovery. 
Yum China takes charity as one of its priorities and has positively engaged in 
countless disaster relief efforts through the donation of supplies and resources 
like food. In 2008, the company made cumulative donations worth more than 
21 million RMB to the Wenchuan Great Earthquake areas, and in 2010, a 
2 million RMB donation was sent to the Yushu disaster area to aid in relief 
efforts. In 2013, we donated 5 million RMB to the Sichuan Ya’an Earthquake 
area, and in 2014 we donated 2 million to the Yunan Ludian Earthquake and 
coordinated the distribution of relief supplies including water, rice and tents. 
KFC opened its first “School After 4:30pm” themed restaurant in Shenzhen 
in June 2016 as a part of KFC’s initiatives to serve local communities. The 
restaurant provides school children with a safe and relaxing space after 
4:30 pm, when they return from school and while their parents are still at 
work. Additionally, lots of meaningful programs are offered to enrich their 
stay utilizing technology, such as playing with VR glasses, 3D modeling 
and 3D printing. Some have even built exclusive spaces where school kids 
can read, do homework and listen to music. Every month, these themed 
restaurants hold a variety of activities including story-telling and kitchen-
exploration activities that help contribute to children’s overall development 
and the harmony of the community.Disaster Relief and Donation 
KFC Vcare: Being There for Kids After School 
To support the advocacy and promotion of nationwide reading, 
Yum China and the Shenzhen Book Donation and Exchange 
Center jointly established a Community Reading Center – the 
“Shenzhen Pizza Hut Book Donation and Exchange Sub-center” 
in November 2017. This center is in the Shenzhen Pizza Hut 
Oriental Garden Restaurant, has a capacity of 2,500 books and 
can offer services including reading, sharing, and communicating, 
just like a library. These efforts provide customers and community 
members with a platform to communicate and interact. Each 
month, the restaurant purchases and donates top-selling books 
to this center for readers to share their comments and exchange 
books. Pizza Hut Public Reading Program：
Pizza Hut Book Exchange Center
In 2017, Yum China’s KFC restaurants launched a Community Care Month 
through a nationwide community service initiative to echo and celebrate the 
30th anniversary of Yum China’s operations in China. Starting in March, our 
restaurants used various activities to show their gratitude to and care for the 
communities where they live and work. As part of the campaign, select KFC 
restaurants in Chongqing and Changsha launched initiatives to provide job 
opportunities for local mothers who would otherwise seek employment far 
away from their children and homes.KFC Launches the Community Care Month to 
Celebrate KFC's 30th Anniversary
Love can make the chilly winter even warmer. Yum China has been 
dedicated to being a “good neighborhood” by helping provide key 
resources to the communities in which we operate through our more 
than 8,100 restaurants across more than 1,200 cities in China. We drive 
these efforts by launching a series of community activities. Among them, 
sanitation workers, public security officers and other front-line outdoor 
workers have always been the focus. These outdoor workers, regardless 
of extreme cold or heat, are always quietly serving the public. To 
appreciate their hard work, Yum China’s KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants 
are transformed into a “home” to send warmth and care to these important 
members of our society. During winter months, restaurant staff invite 
sanitation workers, public security officers and other outdoor workers to 
come into their restaurants to enjoy a cup of hot water and to warm up 
their hands - and during hot summer months, to have a quick rest with 
some fresh fruit drinks.KFC and Pizza Hut: 
Rest and Warmth During a Long Day of Work 
Warmest Birthday Cake Ever
On the second day of the 2017 Spring Festival, it was a Baotou police officer’s daughter’s 9th birthday. The officer could not celebrate with his 
daughter at home because he was on duty. His daughter went to the public station to visit her father. To her surprise, the local KFC restaurant had 
specially prepared a birthday cake, meal and small gifts for the little girl, and had sent them to the station upon learning of the situation. Yum China 
hopes to continue paying tribute to these workers and their family members who are on duty during festivals through our small but, hopefully, heart-
warming actions.
Children and young people are the future of society, and at Yum China it is our privilege and responsibility to 
make an impact on the lives of these young people. We believe that by connecting with young people on key 
issues like education, reading, and support for special groups, we can create meaningful change. Children and Youth Development Through 
Education and Engagement  
KFC Little Migratory Birds Fund: 
Provide Support So Left-Behind and Floating Children 
Can Fly High
At Yum China, we believe that we can make the greatest impact by helping 
those most in need. “Little Migratory Birds” is a term that refers to left-behind 
children in rural areas and migrant children who move to cities alone with 
their parents as they pursue work opportunities. According to the Ministry of 
Civil Affairs of the People's Republic of China, there are more than 9 million 
left-behind children who have both parents away from home in search of 
work. These left-behind children receive care and education in their home 
communities, but they only get to see their parents once or twice a year in 
most instances, and many of these children struggle in school and some 
have higher rates of health issues. 
“We hope to grow the ‘Little Migratory Birds’ program 
into a charitable platform with a nationwide impact that 
fosters the physical and mental development of left-
behind children through comprehensive care.”
             —Joey Wat, CEO of Yum China
1,015 1,198,882 4,805
reading corners 
establishedreading hours spent
As of Dec. 31, 2017, the program has made great achievement.reading activities 
organizedIn partnership with the China Children and Teenagers' 
Foundation (CCTF), Yum China and its KFC restaurants 
initiated the Little Migratory Birds Fund in 2016. The 
nationwide charity program provides children with 
books and reading programs by donating the Little Bird 
Reading Corner, and leveraging KFC’s restaurant chains 
throughout China to accompany kids and cheer them up. 
As of December 2017, the program had benefited about 
600,000 left-behind and migrant children from 1,015 
communities. KFC has also established 1,015 permanent 
reading corners by working with local communities and 
donating books, audio books and audio equipment. In 
addition, we have hosted in-store reading sessions and 
fun gatherings at KFC restaurants across 22 provinces 
and 97 cities during holiday breaks and summer/
winter school breaks. According to an evaluation by the 
Research Center of Philanthropy and Social Enterprise 
at Beijing Normal University, an independent 3rd party, 
beneficiary children are 100% satisfied with the in-store 
activities and are more than willing to come again. 
The program celebrated its first anniversary in November 
2017 by upgrading its fund to “version 2.0” and working 
to benefit an estimated 900,000 left-behind and migrant 
children in the second year, involving more social 
investment to care for these populations.Mom Restaurant ’s for Little Migratory Birds
Starting  in March  2017,  KFC restaurants  in Chongqing  started  a pilot 
program  whereby  open  job vacancies  would  be provided  to the mothers  
of left-behind  children.  These  mothers  are provided  with basic  welfare  
support  and flexible  working  schedule,  which  allow  them  to spend  more  
time with their  children.  Some  KFC restaurants  even  arrange  “book  
corners”  for children  and mothers  also enjoy  the freedom  to bring  their 
kids to work  where  the kids can read and play with toys during  their 
mother’s  working  hours.  
Highly Recognized by Media and Charity Community 
“2015-2016 China Women and Children Charity 
Award” by the All China Women's Federation“2016 Medal of Caring for Public Welfare” by the 
Chinese Corporate Philanthropy Medal Summit
“CSR Case of the Year” by the 9th China 
Corporate Social Responsibility AwardYum China was awarded “2017 Annual Public 
Service Enterprises” by China Philanthropy Times 
due to its outstanding performance in “Little 
Migratory Birds” program.The program has also been honored with a range of charitable awards including: “When  I was little,  I spent  most  of the time with my grandparents  and 
only got the chance  to reunion  with Mom  and Dad during  Spring  Festival.  
Everything  changed  after Mom  started  to work  in KFC,  I can stay with 
Mom  and Dad every  single  day!”
                                —Su  Hongao,  used  to be a “little  migratory  bird”
KFC Kid ’s Book Club: 
From Learning to Read to Reading to Learn
Reading is among the most important activities for children 
from birth. It is the most important skill necessary for a happy, 
productive and successful life - and the transition from “learning 
to read” to “reading to learn” imbues children with skills and self-
confidence.
At Yum China, we’re pleased to see our stores function as 
community centers and places of learning. 
Yum China operates one of China’s largest children’s book clubs 
in KFC stores across the country. In 2017, we held more than 
275,000 storytelling sessions in KFC stores and have given away 
more than 18 million children’s books. We expect that a total of 
100 million books will be given away within the next five years, 
and we will work on creating high-quality audio books for sharing 
through Yum China’s social media platforms, as well as KFC’s 
mobile app. 
First rolled out in 2015, our Kid’s Book Club initiative aims to 
cultivate a habit of reading in children by giving away books. In 
April 2017, under the guidance of the China Women’s Federation, 
Yum China partnered with the China Youth Development 
Foundation to release the Guidance for Children’s Reading by 
the Kid’s Book Club. The report analyzed the current situation 
and challenges that many children in China face because of 
insufficient or uneven distribution of reading materials. It also 
highlighted the importance of reading materials that can benefit 
children with a better understanding the world, developing their 
personality and enabling them to experience emotions. Based 
on this analysis, the report created a list of 78 books in distinct 
categories for children aged 3+ and 6+, with the goal of promoting 
a scientific reading system and building up a harmonious reading 
atmosphere for children. A group of education specialists, authors and reading experts came 
together to help create the reading list to ensure the impact and success of 
the program and the children receiving aid.
Chinese Culture: Beautiful Chinese Folktales, Chinese Top Drawing 
Books Collection, The 24 Solar Terms, etc.
Children ’s Literature:  The Wind in the Willows, Cao Wenxuan’s Classic 
Collection, Children’s Poems Collection, etc.
Picture Books: The Wild Things, Dr. Seuss’s Cartoon Books, The Cat 
with One Million Lives, Reunion, etc. 
Popular Science: Magic school bus, The best coolest science book, 
Under earth, under water, etc.
Humanities and Art: You Can't Take a Balloon into the Metropolitan 
Museum, Big Questions From Little People, The book of Travel, etc.
Johnson Huang, General Manager of KFC China made a speech at an event of KFC Kid’s Book Club.  “The  KFC ‘First  Light’  Foundation  came  to my life at just 
the right time.  With its funding,  I was able to stick to and 
continue  my studies.”
              — Shi Congcong,  a First Light  Student  and 
Philosophy  Major  at Northwest  University
“We are always  proud  to say that we are First Light  
Students,  because  we really  cherish  this opportunity.  I 
thank  KFC for giving  us a platform  to gain these  real-
world  experiences  and skills.  I have  learned  countless  
valuable  life skills  from working  with KFC restaurants.  
I understand  my own strengths  and weaknesses,  and 
I know  how to work  with these  teams.  I know  I will 
continue  to use these  skills  throughout  my career.”  
              — Qiao  Yongbo,  Xi’an  University  of Finance  
and Economics  student  and President  of the “First  
Light  Commune”  at the Xi’an  University  of Finance  and 
Economics
“Because  of some  tragedies  that happened  in my family,  
I had to take over responsibilities  from my parents  and 
support  the whole  family  at a very early age. The financial  
pressure  was huge  because  the whole  family  was 
counting  on me and only me. The First Light  Foundation  
had relieved  some  of this pressure.  But to me, I must  be 
self-reliant  and as a First Light  Student,  I must  work  hard 
and improve  myself.  As such,  I was extremely  proud  
to be awarded  the 'Star of Self-improvement'amongst  
Chinese  University  Students.”
              —Liu Xing, First Light Student and 2008 
graduate of China Agricultural University
KFC First Light Foundation: 
Benefiting the Community, Giving Back to Society
In partnership with the China Youth Development Foundation (CYDF), 
KFC China established the First Light Foundation in 2002 to help students 
in need. The program created a three-in-one funding mode that combines 
financial support, practical work placement and community service to enable 
the students in need to receive education opportunities and grow up. 
In 2017, selected students received a two-year grant worth 10,000 RMB. 
These funds enable students to complete their education with less financial 
burden. Additionally, we provide students with the opportunity to gain 
practical work experience in KFC restaurants, with students working over 400 
hours in KFC restaurants. Finally, we provide funding and training to students 
so that they can launch their own community service projects under the “First 
Light Commune”– embedding in them the spirit of giving back that is so key to 
Yum China. 
Over the past 16 years, KFC has contributed more than 94 million RMB, and 
the project today covers 64 universities across 30 cities and helps more than 
14,000 students with their educational advancement. 
Yum China is committed to promoting the importance of balanced, active lifestyles.  We believe that exercise, 
physical activity and living a healthy and active lifestyle are important for every individual, and particularly for 
children and young people who are forming habits that they will carry throughout their lives. 
Healthy Living –
Promote Active and Healthy LifestylesKFC 3x3 Basketball Championship:
Promoting Sports and an Active Lifestyle
0 marks the th year of KFC ’s X basketball championship, 
one of the most influential youth basketball tournaments in the 
country. Launched in 00, it has today evolved into the world's 
largest grassroots basketball program, hosting more than .6 million 
participants. 
Through a partnership with the Chinese Basketball Association 
(CBA), the KFC x basketball program encourages teamwork 
and inspires young people to lead active, healthy lifestyles. At Yum 
China, we hope that this competition serves as a platform for young 
emerging basketball players to showcase their amazing skills and to 
realize their dreams. 
In 0, a total of 0,000 student participants from over ,600 
schools representing 0 cities took part in this year ’s games. After 
a -month journey of competition,  teams made it through to 
the final match. A growing number of teenagers from tier two and 
three cities also joined the competition. Yao Ming, President of the 
Chinese Basketball Association (CBA) and a large supporter of the 
program, said: “x basketball is entering a new phase of explosive 
growth and the sport has recently been added to the roster for 
the 00 Olympic Games in Tokyo. KFC ’s national competition 
demonstrates the huge potential of the sport in China and will 
provide a launch pad for the players of the future. ” 
In addition to our partnership with CBA, we also partnered with 
the Chinese Society of Education to introduce the KFC x 
program to junior and senior high schools, significantly increasing 
the number of participants and helping promote active lifestyles 
and participation in sports amongst students. 
In June 0, the x basketball game was officially added to the 
roster of the 00 Olympic Games in Tokyo, demonstrating how 
the sport has evolved from a minority street exercise to a broadly 
popular sport. “KFC, as the promoter and advocate of the sport 
in China, has been supporting grassroots programs to enable 
students to realize their dreams. This program has been running 
for  years and will continue to provide a bigger platform to 
motivate more teenagers to pursue their dreams, ” said Joey Wat, 
CEO of Yum China. 
Marathon: 
Running for a Healthy and Active Lifestyle 
With more than 450,000 employees throughout China, our 
culture and our company priorities have a significant impact 
across the country. As such, we work to promote an active 
and balanced lifestyle and encourage employees to stay fit 
and exercise. 
KFC has not only been committed to providing quality food to 
consumers, but is also working hard to ensure that our brand 
is healthy, fashionable, dynamic and youthful for consumers 
throughout China. 
We initiated our support for the development of marathons 
in 2016 through our K-Run teams, encouraging not only 
employees and KFC WOW members to join K-Run teams to 
participate in full marathons, but also encouraging families 
across China to thrive together through family runs. In 2016, 
we helped assemble 650 K-Run team members and 1000 
families across 9 marathons. 
In 2017, KFC actively practiced the theme of "running and not 
stopping" through marathons to promote the spirit of living 
a healthy and active lifestyle for more people. This year, we 
have engaged 1,895 K-Run team members and 2,500 families 
across 19 marathons. 
By the end of 2017, KFC had supported 28 marathons, with 
3,500 families participating in the family runs, and more than 
2,500 runners joining our K-Run teams.
We hope that the impact of these events will continue to 
develop and impact the lives of our employees and their 
families.  
See for You - KFC K-Run Team Volunteered for Blind Runners 
in Shanghai Marathon
Yum China  believes  that by leveraging  marathon  and K-Run  teams,  we can 
relentlessly  pass on the spirit  of living  a healthy  and active  lifestyle.  We not 
only promote  a healthy  lifestyle  amongst  employees  at Yum China  through  
many  K-Run  teams,  but we also help the public  outside  the company  
practice  these  lifestyles.  
In November  2017,  the 2017  Shanghai  Marathon  opened  with more  
than 40,000  participants  worldwide.  Two blind  runners  also joined  the 
competition,  wearing  bright  orange  T-shirts  and successfully  completing  the 
competition  together  with two guides.  The two guides  are both volunteers  
from KFC’s  K-Run  team  who were  there  to guide  the blind  runners  as they 
ran on the track,  securing  their safety.  KFC also organized  volunteers  to 
cheer  for them  and encouraged  them  to enjoy  a healthy  and active  lifestyle.  
A Journey to Dreams Beyond Expectation  
Over the past 14 years, the KFC 3X3 Youth Basketball Championship has 
created a journey whereby thousands of teenagers are able to pursue their 
dreams. This program encourages these teens to enjoy the game and the 
spirit of teamwork and cooperation while learning never to give up.
Liu Xiaoyu, who was the first champion of the game, is now a professional 
player in the China Basketball Association, and has been selected to 
represent the China national team in international competitions. 
KFC’s basketball program also provided the opportunity for Chinese 
basketball player Liu Xiaoyu to launch his professional career. In 2004, 
as a senior high school student, Liu Xiaoyu participated in the 3x3 
basketball game, representing Jilin province and eventually winning the 
final national competition. The experience encouraged him to continue to 
passionately pursue his dream and practice his basketball skills to become 
a professional player. The platform motivated him to grow into an excellent 
basketball player and a role model for teenagers, and even winning the 
CBA grand championship four times.  Marathon: 
Running for a Healthy and Active Lifestyle 
6Environment At Yum China, we acknowledge our role as an environmentally responsible corporate steward and we cultivate our corporate culture 
to encourage environmental sustainability and greener operations. 
Similar to the global community, environmental protection and sustainability are key priorities for Chinese leaders. The report by 
China’s President Xi Jinping at the 19th Party Congress highlights that China will promote balanced economic, political, cultural, 
social and ecological progress. The report stresses that “ensuring harmony between humans and nature” is one of the fourteen 
fundamental principles laid out by the Party. At Yum China, we are committed to supporting these goals and striving to make positive 
contributions towards China’s sustainable development. 
We believe that the work we do today to improve our environmental protection and promote environmental sustainability will benefit 
not just the current generation, but many generations to come. We are dedicated and relentless in our efforts to leverage our strength 
to drive positive changes in the Food we Eat, the Water we Drink, and the Air we Breathe – to make every life taste beautiful.
At Yum China, we drive environmental protection priorities and best practices into our day-to-day business. We set ambitious – 
and, in some cases, aspirational – goals, aiming to develop greener restaurants, create a greener supply chain, and build greener 
communities. We are committed to:Our Environment 
Sustainability is at the core of our operations and we continuously implement initiatives to reduce our environmental 
footprint for the benefit of our customers, stakeholders and the planet. We recognize that what we do today will matter 
tomorrow.
Designing and building 100% of company-owned 
restaurants in accordance with Yum China green building 
standards.
Driving an additional 5-10% water efficiency 
improvement for company-owned restaurants by 2025.Driving an additional 10% energy efficiency 
improvement for company-owned restaurants by 2025.
Promoting sustainable sourcing that benefits the 
protection of forests.
6As one of China’s most successful and rapidly growing restaurant companies, we are committed to developing 
greener restaurants to reduce our environmental footprint. We test, evaluate and implement a variety of solutions 
to design and construct sustainable restaurants, improve energy and water efficiency, and reduce waste. Developing Greener Restaurants :
Design and Operate Sustainable Restaurants At Yum China, we follow our comprehensive green building standards for all of 
our restaurants, and we work to achieve a desirable balance between creating a 
comfortable dining experience for our customers and operating sustainably. 
The Yum China green building standard draws reference from relevant aspects of the 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) green building certification 
program. This green building standard focuses on core areas of energy saving, water 
conservation, sensible material use, and suitable human environment design. It also 
provides specific, actionable green building solutions that have been tested in our 
foundational green buildings, including six LEED Gold certified KFC restaurants in 
cities across climatically diverse regions in China.
We are committed to designing and building 100% of our company-owned 
restaurants to meet Yum China green building standards. We are pleased to report 
that, in 2017, all of our 691 new company-owned restaurants were in full compliance 
with this standard. Green Building
In 2016, all KFC and Pizza 
Hut restaurants in Shanghai 
were awarded the “Green 
Restaurant” designation by the 
Shanghai Restaurants Cuisine 
Association .
6We also make continuous efforts to enhance our customers’ dining experiences at all our restaurants.
We use high-performance paint for the interior walls at our 
restaurants, creating lower volatile organic compound (VOC) 
emissions than China national standard.
We set seasonal temperatures at our restaurants with high-
efficiency direct current (DC) inverter air conditioning to ensure 
constant temperature control. We ensure our restaurants are well ventilated with the use of 
fresh air systems.We install high color rendering index LED lights at our 
restaurants, displaying our meals in natural colors to create a 
comfortable and welcoming atmosphere, and more importantly, to 
protect customers’ vision health.
6We build our greener restaurants via Energy Efficiency Improvement, Water Efficiency Improvement, Waste Reduction and Sustainable Packaging.
In 2017, we reduced 8,100 tons of greenhouse gases emissions, equivalent to 875 homes’ energy use for one year.
23℃
2 22 0 0 111kwhEnergy Efficiency
Sustainable packagingWaste Management Water Efficiency
12,000
MWh of electricity 
consumption reduced50%
More energy efficient 
LED lights 
35% - 50%
Direct current air conditioner energy savings  
All waste handled and 
processed by 
government-certified 
waste treatment partners 
40%
Oil consumption 
reduction 
500  
Tons cooking oil waste 
reduced through 
innovative frying 
technology Waste sorting 
initiatives 
25%
Kitchen exhaust hood energy savings  
70%
More efficient heat 
pump water heaters 50%
Water-saving  compared 
to traditional faucets
148,000  
Tons of water consump-
tion reduced8,000 
Tons of paper 
1,100
Tons of plastic 
packing saved
* All percentage figures represent the technical indicators of the technologies adopted in our restaurants.
* All absolute figures represent the actual savings generated in 2017.We Build Sustainability into Every Aspect of Our Restaurants Energy Efficiency
At Yum China, energy efficiency has been instrumental to our sustainability 
roadmap. We impart energy saving into our daily restaurant operations. We 
measure and control the level of energy consumption in our restaurants 
to ensure they are energy sustainable. We drive the research and 
implementation of innovative technologies and systems to improve energy 
efficiency. We are committed to addressing climate change by reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) in our own business and beyond.
Through the end of 2017, the energy-saving initiatives that we developed 
and implemented have contributed to about 10% of energy efficiency 
improvement in our company-owned new restaurants. We will continue 
to explore energy efficiency improvement opportunities through new 
technologies in the future. We are committed to our bold goal to drive a 
further 10% energy efficiency improvement for company-owned restaurants 
by 2025.
We evaluate and select our new equipment based upon its total cost of 
ownership (TCO), including energy consumption and maintenance cost, 
instead of simply the initial equipment cost. This measure guides us to 
choose higher energy efficiency equipment, even in cases where such 
equipment has higher initial cost.
We make restaurant energy management one of the key responsibilities 
of restaurant general managers (RGM). We design our restaurant energy 
management system to be management friendly for our front-line staff, as 
well as to be adaptable and scalable. We developed a color code system 
that manages the operation of our kitchen equipment and facilities based on 
specific operational hours and business requirements.
In 2017, with innovative energy-saving technologies and an energy 
management system, we reduced nearly 12,000MWh of electricity 
consumption - equivalent to over 8,100 tons of GHG emissions, or over 875 
homes’ energy use for one year1.
1. The GHG emissions is calculated with Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculation published 
on US Environmental Protection Agency. 6
Our high-efficiency exhaust 
hoods reduce exhaust volumes 
by around 40%, and save energy 
consumption by up to 25%. These 
hoods were installed in KFC 
restaurants starting July 2017and 
will be replicated in Pizza Hut 
restaurants from 2018. In 2017, 
these energy-saving hoods 
contributed to nearly 1,300 MWh 
of electricity saving, equivalent 
to 884 tons GHG emissions 
reduction.LED technology has been  
applied in our company-owned 
restaurants since 2013. In 2017, 
we saved more than 3,900 
MWh of electricity through the 
application of LED lighting . This 
is equivalent to more than 2,600 
tons GHG emissions reduction.Our DC air conditioning system 
can reduce 35-50% of total energy 
consumption per unit. We started 
to install these equipment in our 
company-owned restaurants in 
2012. In 2017, 761 units were 
installed, generating more than 
5,800 MWh worth savings on 
electricity - equivalent to nearly 
4,000 tons GHG emissions 
reduction.Heat pump water heaters have 
been installed in our KFC  
restaurants since May 2017, and 
will be rolled out to all Pizza Hut 
restaurants in 2018. By the end of 
2017, more than 200 installations 
have been completed, generating  
over 900 MWh of electricity 
savings, equivalent to more than 
600 tons GHG emissions.Kitchen cooking fume 
exhaust control systemLED Lighting at all our 
restaurants High-Efficiency Direct Current 
Air Conditioning SystemHeat pump water heaterWater Management
At Yum China, water efficiency is also a key component of our 
sustainability roadmap. We are actively taking measures to reduce 
water consumption and to conserve water resources. We improved 
our water efficiency by approximately 3.5% through 2017, and we are 
committed to driving a further 5-10% water efficiency improvement for 
company-owned restaurants by 2025.
We have implemented various technologies to improve our ability to 
measure and reduce water usage. We work with the World Resources 
Institute (WRI) to assess and identify potential impacts generated by 
water resources on Yum China’s existing and future business operations 
to enhance our overall water management capabilities.
Water efficiency is one of our most important criteria for new equipment 
selection. In 2016, we started to install water-saving faucets at the 
customer and employee wash basins in our new company-owned 
restaurants. These water-saving faucets consume approximately 50% 
less water than is required by the China national standard. These efforts 
collectively saved over 148,000 tons of water in 2017.
We are committed to driving a further 5-10% water 
efficiency improvement for company-owned restaurants 
by 2025. Waste Management
Yum China is committed to  
reducing waste through waste 
management. We have stringent 
waste management system in place 
to comply with relevant national and 
local regulations. In addition, we 
make every effort to reduce wastes 
generated from our operations.
Our specialized teams in different 
markets collaborate with 3rd party 
waste treatment companies that 
are certified by local government 
authorities to handle all wastes. In 
order to ensure proper traceability and disposal of waste cooking oil, all 
of our 3rd party waste treatment companies are required to record and 
document the details of waste cooking oil collected. These requirements 
form part of our formal contract with suppliers.
We continuously explore new technologies to reduce waste throughout 
our operation. In 2017, innovative frying technologies were adopted 
to control the volume of oil used in cooking. This technology is able to 
reduce cooking oil consumption and subsequently reduce cooking oil 
waste by 40%. By applying this technology in our KFC restaurants, we 
reduced cooking oil consumption by more than 500 tons in 2017.
In addition, we piloted waste sorting projects in KFC restaurants in 
2016 to allow our customers to properly sort waste through the use of 
newly-designed garbage bins. By the end of 2017, we implemented this 
project in over 100 KFC restaurants, and we are targeting a rollout to 
over 1,000 restaurants in 2018. 
5-10%At Yum China, we work to create one of the best supply chains in the industry, and we are continuously making 
efforts to create a greener ecosystem. We embrace every opportunity to engage our suppliers to collectively drive 
environmental sustainability priorities and responsible practices. We prioritize sustainable sourcing initiatives 
based on our product impact and influence, through which we focus on the products that carry the least impact on 
deforestation and the areas where we have the most influence to create positive change.Creating a Greener Supply Chain：
Sustainability from Planning to Procurement to 
Product
Supplier's Code of Conduct 
We guide and encourage our suppliers to commit to responsible 
production. As mentioned in the FOOD section, in addition to a 
rigorous Code of Conduct that all of our suppliers must abide by 
and follow, we also developed a Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) audit program in which suppliers’ performance on 
environmental protection measures is a key element.
Working with Suppliers Who Are Committed to Sustainability
We encourage our suppliers to make integrated environmental efforts. For 
example, some suppliers utilize farming and animal breeding waste as a 
source of fuel to create more environmental efficiency and sustainability. 
Some suppliers use rice husks for power generation. 
Fujian Sunner Development Co., Ltd, a leading chicken supplier in 
China, has been proactively protecting the environment and successfully 
practicing sustainable operations. Currently, Sunner is able to annually 
process over 100,000 tons of wasted side products and over 1,000,000 
tons of chicken manure.Supporting Sustainable Palm Oil 
Sustainable palm oil is an important issue for our business and 
the industry. 
We are committed to working with our peers, suppliers, NGOs, 
and other stakeholders to support the production of sustainable 
palm oil. In 2017, we became a member of the Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), a global nonprofit initiative uniting 
stakeholders across the supply chain to develop and implement 
global standards for sustainable palm oil.Sustainable Packaging 
Yum China is committed to protecting our environment through 
sustainable packaging initiatives. We adopt the principle of 
Reduce, Reuse, Replace to actively drive innovation in the 
application of new packaging solutions, new materials and 
new technology to reduce packaging usage. In addition to our 
constant effort to reduce packaging weight and substitute plastic 
with paper material,
we embraced digital technologies to reduce paper usage. 
Since 2010, we have replaced paper coupons with digital 
coupons, resulting in 98% less paper coupon usage.
we included the option of “0 tableware” on all KFC and Pizza 
Hut online ordering platforms so that our customers can join 
our effort to reduce disposable packaging for delivered meals.
we applied 100% water-based flexographic printing ink on all 
paper packaging at KFC. 
With the technologies and weight reduction projects 
implemented last year, we saved about 8,000 tons of paper and 
over 1,100 tons of plastic in 2017.● 
● 
● 
Since 2010, we have replaced paper coupons with 
digital coupons, resulting in 98% less paper coupon 
usage.98%
At Yum China, we are passionate about sustainability and we are committed to encouraging environmental 
awareness, education and action by extending our efforts and values to our customers and communities. 
Overcoming environmental challenges requires collective efforts and actions, and no one organization can 
overcome all of the vast environmental challenges we face. 
Building a Greener Community :
Promoting Sustainability Culture Within Our 
CommunityFrom GHG emissions reduction, energy efficiency 
improvements and water conservation to sustainable 
urbanization and environmental protection planning and 
policy research, tackling environmental challenges requires 
the participation of many stakeholders. As such, at Yum 
China we are proud to promote sustainability culture in 
our communities and address environmental challenges 
collaboratively and comprehensively. 
Eco-friendly KFC Restaurant in Fuzhou 
Engages and Mobilizes the Community
On April 19, 2017, before the 48th annual Earth Day, a fun KFC Environmental Carnival 
was held in an eco-friendly KFC restaurant located in Fuzhou University Town. The event 
was organized by the Fuzhou Environmental Protection Agency, the Fuzhou Environmental 
Protection Association, Yum China and the Green Min Youth Volunteer Service Center. 
This event attracted about 300 community residents and college students. 
At this event, a series of interactive environmental experience projects were organized to 
engage and educate the community. The participants could easily learn the environmental 
knowledge through the event’s games, and many were happy to invite their families and 
friends to join the "environmental protection army."
The Fuzhou Environmental Protection Association awarded this restaurant by naming it the 
"Green Practice Base for College Students". During the past year, college students from 
neighboring universities held a total of 13 environmental charity salons and lectures in the 
restaurant. These events collectively garnered nearly ten thousand RMB in charity sales.

Since we opened our first restaurant in Beijing, Yum China has been committed to making a material difference on the 
economic and social development of China. Becoming an independent, publicly-traded company was a major milestone 
for our company. As such, we’re pleased to double down on our commitment to making a positive impact on China – as we 
showcase in this report. Indeed, we are building on our past success and new capabilities, and we look forward to working 
towards these sustainability goals and making an impact across four key areas: 
Our Food: We serve millions of customers annually, and from raw ingredients to our supply chain and restaurants, 
we take every action to ensure that we provide customers with healthy, nutritious and high-quality food products. 
Our People: At the heart of our efforts, successes and aspirations are our more than 450,000 employees. Every day 
across our over 8,100 stores, our employees provide nourishing food for families and communities. As one of the 
largest employers in China, we’re honored to continue investing significant resources in developing our people.
Our Community: We focus on areas where our expertise and scale can make the biggest impact and benefit the 
communities we operate in. Programs like our flagship One Yuan Donation program impact our communities 
directly, providing aid and opportunities that make an impact. 
Our Environment: We promote environmental sustainability and leadership throughout our operations, 
acknowledging our role as an environmentally responsible corporate steward and cultivating our corporate culture to 
encourage environmental sustainability and greener operations. 
Yum China has made considerable progress in the past 30 years and we are committed to bringing more value to 
stakeholders and communities throughout China in the years ahead. Together with our employees and partners, we look 
forward to working together to make every life taste beautiful!  Final RemarksReport  Profile,  Scope  and Boundary  
Since entering China in 1987, Yum China has been committed to sustainability 
and making an impact. The Yum China Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
and Sustainability Report is our first such report as an independently listed 
company. As this report showcases, we focus our performance on four key 
areas where our scale and expertise can make the biggest impact: on our 
Food, our People, our Community and our Environment. 
We recognize that we have a duty to provide transparent sustainability 
information to our broad groups of stakeholders including employees, 
customers, consumers, suppliers, shareholders, governments, and more. In 
this report, we aim to provide a transparent assessment of our sustainability 
journey and provide information on our sustainability efforts, partnerships and 
programs. 
This report covers all Yum China’s corporate operations, including our 
restaurant support centers, restaurants and other Yum China owned and 
operated facilities. The reporting time frame covers January to December 
2017. All information, facts and figures contained in this report fall within 
this reporting frame unless otherwise noted. Data and figures are reported 
in Chinese RMB with the exception of the Yum China stock price which is 
displayed in USD.
This report was produced in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Materiality Assessment
Yum China conducted a materiality assessment to identify the sustainability 
issues most material to our business and our stakeholders to determine the 
content and information contained in this report. We’re constantly looking 
across our business operations to identify the key areas where we have the 
strongest ability to make a material impact on the communities we operate in.
Assurance  
To ensure accuracy of the content and information in this report, Yum China 
conducted an internal review of all data and assertions contained in this report. 
Yum China’s internal subject matter experts and all members of the Yum 
China Leadership Team reviewed and approved the report. 
We sincerely hope that this 2017 Yum China Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) and Sustainability Report will enable our stakeholders to easily identify 
and find the information that is most relevant to them. We welcome your 
feedback on this report. 
Please contact us at ：
CSR@yumchina.com
Yum China Building, 20 Tianyaoqiao Road, Shanghai 200030, P. R. China.About this ReportEconomic
Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
Procurement Practices G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Environment
Biodiversity G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Compliance G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Effluents and wasteG4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method
G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
EmissionsG4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
EnergyG4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption
G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
Materials G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Overall G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Products and services G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Supplier environmental assessment G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
WaterG4-EN10  Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused
G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water
G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approachCategory G4 NotesGRI G4 Content Index Ethics  and Integrity
Ethics and IntegrityG4-58 　
G4-57 　
G4-56 　
Identified  Material  Aspects  and Boundaries
Identified Material Aspects and BoundariesG4-23 　
G4-21 　
G4-19 　
G4-17 　
Organizational  Profile
Organizational ProfileG4-16 　
G4-15 　
G4-3 　
G4-4 　
G4-6 　
G4-7 　
G4-8 　
G4-9 　
G4-10 　
G4-12 　Category G4 NotesReport  Profile
Report ProfileG4-30 　
G4-29 　
G4-28 　
Social
Human Rights 　 　
Child labor G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Forced or compulsory labor G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Human rights grievance mechanisms G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Investment G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Non-discrimination G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Supplier human rights assessment G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Labor practices and decent work 　 　
Labor/Management Relations G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Diversity and equal opportunityG4-LA12  Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 
per employee category according to gender, age group, minority 
group membership, and other indicators of diversity
G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
EmploymentG4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of oper-
ation
G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
Equal remuneration for women and men G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Labor Practices Grievance Mechanism G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approach
Supplier assessment for labor practices G4-DMA  Generic disclosures on management approachCategory G4 NotesTraining and educationG4-LA10  Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support 
the continued employability of employees and assist them in man-
aging career endings
G4-LA9  Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by 
employee category
G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
Product Responsibility 　 　
Compliance G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
Customer health and safety G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
Society 　 　
Anti-corruption G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
Compliance G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
Local communitiesG4-SO1  
  Percentage of operations with implemented local community en -
gagement, impact assessments, and development programs
G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
Public PolicyG4-SO6Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/bene-
ficiary
G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach
Strategy  and Analysis  
Strategy and Analysis G4-1 　
G4-2 　Category G4 NotesYum China Holdings, Inc.
