2021  Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report
PURPOSE   
THAT  FEEDS   
THE FUTURE
We’re passionate about feeding 
a future with more purpose  
because it’s our responsibility to   
create a Recipe for Good for all.TABLE OF 
CONTENTS
APPROACH 
Citizenship & Sustainability Goals and Commitments
Corporate Governance
Materiality6
ESG REPORTING
Performance Summary
GRI Index
SASB Index
About This Report 40PEOPLE
People Dashboard
Connections Across Our Recipe for Growth & Good
Unlocking Opportunity
• Equity & Inclusion
• Education
• Entrepreneurship  
Brand Community Impact
Ethics & Human Rights14 FOOD
Food Dashboard
Food Safety
Balanced Choices Across Our Portfolio
Animal Welfare
Limiting Antibiotic Use24 PLANET
Planet Dashboard
Climate Action
Initial Areas for Emissions Reduction
• Restaurants & Offices
• Supply Chain
Deforestation
Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction
Water30Transparency & Verification
Reporting & Disclosures  
Stakeholder Engagement
The last two years have presented one of the most challenging environments that the world, along with Yum! 
Brands, have navigated: year two of a global pandemic, associated supply chain disruptions and persistent labor 
shortages. We ended 2021 stronger than ever, marking the strongest growth year in our history and setting an 
industry record for unit development. We opened nearly 4,200 gross units during the year — an average of one new 
restaurant every two hours.
Our success is a testament to our Recipe for Growth & Good, showing that a focus on environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) issues is not incidental to growth, but rather, an enabler of it. Our shareholders and other 
stakeholders understand this. As a result, we are actively embedding ESG considerations into our business strategy 
and adopting responsible business practices that resonate with our values. 
We made significant progress in 2021 toward our three Recipe for Good priority pillars of People, Food and Planet. 
One of Yum!’s defining characteristics is the culture that we create in our restaurants and professional teams 
and the way we take care of people in our communities. During the year, we invested in Yum!’s social purpose, 
unlocking opportunities for our people and communities through initiatives like the launch of the Yum! Center 
for Global Franchise Excellence at the University of Louisville, which will create pathways to entrepreneurship for 
underrepresented people of color and women interested in franchising.
2021 was a milestone year for our environmental commitments: We announced science-based targets (SBTs) to 
reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions nearly 50% by 2030 and set an ambition to achieve net-zero emissions by 
2050. We have initiated several pilot projects to help reduce emissions in our restaurants and supply chain and have 
introduced a harmonized packaging policy that creates a common set of standards across all four of our brands. 
In terms of our food, we remain focused on safety, listening and responding to customers’ evolving preferences, and 
improving the nutritional value of our menu items. We continue to introduce relevant and distinctive plant-based 
offerings at our brands, including in restaurants in the United States, Canada and Europe.
As I reflect on the past two years, I’m incredibly proud of the way our teams have collaborated to serve our 
customers and community while fueling growth for our franchisees and shareholders. Our performance in 2021 
demonstrates that our iconic brands can thrive and win in any environment, and as we make our way through  
2022 — our 25th anniversary year — I’m confident and energized about what lies ahead.
Thanks for your support.A MESSAGE FROM DAVID GIBBS YUM! RECIPE FOR GOOD AT A GLANCE
David Gibbs
Chief Executive Officer  
Yum! Brands, Inc.
ESG RANKINGS & 
RATINGS
Named to  
2021 Dow Jones Sustainability  
North America Index
Achieved   
A- Score on 2021  
CDP Palm Oil & Water Security,  
B Score on CDP Climate,  
Cattle & Timber 
Scored  
100 on the Human Rights 
Campaign Foundation’s 2022 
Corporate Equality Index
Listed on  
3BL Media’s 100 Best Corporate 
Citizens of 2022 ranking
Ranked on  
Newsweek’s list of America’s Most 
Responsible CompaniesOUR HIGHLIGHTS
ALMOST 30 PROGRAMS  
supported through the  
Unlocking Opportunity Initiative  
GALVANIZED INAUGURAL  
LEADERSHIP SUMMIT  
for Black and Hispanic leaders and  
high-potential employees 
YUM! FRANCHISE ACCELERATOR LAUNCHED  
within the Yum! Center for Global 
Franchise Excellence at the  
University of Louisville 
SET SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS  
 to reduce GHG emissions  
nearly 50% by 2030
1,000 YUM! RESTAURANTS 
converted to renewable energy  
using credits in 2022 
JOINED SUPPLIER LEADERSHIP  
ON CLIMATE TRANSITION  
a training program for our suppliers of 
poultry, beef and dairy
NEW HARMONIZED PACKAGING  
POLICY INTRODUCED  
for all brands 
Committed to source  
100% CAGE-FREE EGGS BY 2026   
at the majority of our restaurants1 MILLION +
franchise system 
employees4 BRANDS
1.5K
franchisees 
53K
restaurants
155 +
countries & 
territories
5Our success is a testament to our 
Recipe for Growth & Good, showing 
that a focus on environmental, 
social and governance issues is  
not incidental to growth,  
but rather, an enabler of it.
6 7APPROACH
APPROACH  We Feed the Future
Citizenship & Sustainability Goals and Commitments
WATER
2025
Reduce average restaurant 
water consumption by 10%, 
from 2017 baseline.Annually
Report progress to CDP 
and use World Resources 
Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct 
biannually to evaluate  
water risk.NUTRITION
2025
Remove artificial colors, 
flavors and partially 
hydrogenated oils (PHOs) 
from core food ingredients 
globally.
By 2025, Taco Bell will achieve 
a 25% sodium reduction 
across the menu from its 
2008 baseline.
2030
Offer 50% of menu items 
consistent with Yum!  
global nutrition criteria for 
meal options.Annually
Report against our nutrition 
and clean label goals.PACKAGING
2022
Remove Styrofoam and 
Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) 
across all brands.
2025
Eliminate unnecessary plastics 
across all brands.
Reduce virgin plastic content by 
10% across all brands.
Move consumer-facing plastic 
packaging to be reusable, 
recyclable or compostable 
across all brands.
Divert 50% of operational 
waste, measured by  
weight, generated in  
U.S. restaurants.
Taco Bell to provide recycling 
and/or composting bins 
in restaurants, where 
infrastructure permits.
2030
Reduce food loss waste 50% 
in U.S. with Food Loss and 
Waste 2030 Champions.Annually
Support expansion of 
recycling and composting 
programs, infrastructure 
systems and food recovery 
through strategic partnerships 
and advocacy .
Disclose progress made on 
our packaging goals.
2023
Conduct assessment to better 
understand areas where 
more recycled content can be 
included to inform goal-setting 
across all brands.DEFORESTATION
2022
Purchase 100% of paper-
based packaging with fiber 
from responsibly managed 
forests and recycled sources.
2030
End natural forest loss by 
2030 in accordance with  
the New York Declaration  
on Forests.Annually
Source 100% of palm oil used 
for cooking from responsible 
and sustainable sources.
Report progress to CDP.EQUITY & INCLUSION
2030
Achieve gender parity in 
leadership globally by 2030 
in alignment with Paradigm 
for Parity®.Annually
Publish U.S. Workforce 
Diversity Report, including 
board of directors data.
2021
Move 1,000 restaurants to 
renewable energy.
2030
Reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions generated by 
corporate restaurants and 
offices to 46% below  
2019 levels.
Reduce emissions per 
franchisee restaurant and per 
metric ton of beef, poultry, 
dairy and packaging to 46% 
below 2019 levels.
2050
Ambition to achieve  
net-zero emissions.Annually
Report progress to CDP and 
use the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) framework .CLIMATE ANIMAL WELFARE
2022
Pizza Hut to remove 
antibiotics important to 
human medicine from wings 
as the final step in fulfilling 
its commitments to source 
chicken raised without 
antibiotics important to 
human medicine in the U.S.
2025
Taco Bell to reduce antibiotics 
used in human medicine by 
25% in U.S. and Canada beef 
supply chain
2026
Source 100% cage-free 
eggs across at least 25,000 
restaurants, including the 
U.S., Western Europe and 
other markets for all menu 
items and ingredients
2030
Source 100% cage-free  
eggs for all menu items  
and ingredientsAnnually
Maintain existing verification 
programs for poultry and 
disclose progress on  
cage-free eggs
APPROACH APPROACH
8 9Yum!’s role as a global restaurant company and a leading franchisor means that the decisions we make have 
ripple effects around the world. Our business strategy is known as our Recipe for Growth & Good. Our Recipe for 
Growth includes four growth drivers and is the foundation on which our sustainable, long-term results are built. 
These drivers allow us to keep our promises to serve delicious food, make our food accessible to customers, give 
employees a place to grow and make a difference, offer opportunities for franchisees and deliver strong returns 
and long-term value creation for our stakeholders. These growth capabilities are the key drivers of same-store 
sales and net-new unit growth and serve as our guiding principles in all business decisions.
Our Recipe for Good embodies our ESG strategy and is the critical lens through which we deliver growth – it 
reflects our priorities for social responsibility, risk management and sustainable stewardship of our people, food 
and planet. While our Recipe for Growth & Good strategies were formally integrated at the beginning of 2020, we 
continue to find ways to further cascade our business and ESG priorities across the company. For example, we are 
providing more frequent updates to our board on ESG topics and investing in capacity and capability planning to 
meet our ESG goals. 
Relevant,  Easy 
& Distinctive Br ands
Innovate and elevate iconic restaura nt
brands people trust and championBold Re staura nt
Development
Drive mark et and fr anchise 
unit expansion with 
strong economics 
and valueUnmatched 
Oper ating C apabilit y
Recruit and equip the best
restaurant ope rators in 
the world to deliver
great customer
experience sFood
Serve delicious
food people trustPeople
Unlock
opport unity
Planet
Grow 
sustainablyUnlocking opport unity for 
Better collabor ation   •   Bet ter experiences   •  Bet tereconomics •  Bet ter growthPURPOS E
& GOODGOOD GROW TH
Unrivaled Culture  & Talent
Levera ge culture  and people 
capability to fuel bra nd 
performance and 
franchise successCorporate Governance
Good corporate governance is a critical factor in 
achieving business success, and we embrace practices 
that align with management and shareholder interests. 
The Yum! board of directors consists of 12 directors, 11 
of whom are independent, based on New York Stock 
Exchange rules for director independence. In 2021, the 
board was led by an independent, nonexecutive chair. 
Our board believes that its independence and oversight 
of management are effectively maintained through a 
strong independent chair or lead director and through 
the board’s composition, committee system and policy 
of having regular executive sessions of nonemployee 
directors. The board has three independent committees:
• Audit Committee
• Management Planning & Development Committee
• Nominating & Governance Committee
Only independent directors serve on the Audit, 
Management Planning & Development and Nominating 
& Governance Committees in accordance with our 
Corporate Governance Principles. The board has 
instituted an annual self-evaluation process, led by 
the Nominating & Governance Committee, through 
which directors assess how the board can better 
contribute to the company. Our Audit, Management 
Planning & Development and Nominating & Governance 
Committees conduct similar self-evaluations.
ESG GOVERNANCE & LEADERSHIP
Oversight for ESG issues ultimately resides with the Yum! 
board of directors. The board is briefed a couple times a 
year on current issues and focus areas through its Audit 
Committee and is updated on a weekly basis through broader business updates. Our cross-brand Global 
Leadership Team, led by our chief executive officer (CEO) 
and comprised of our executive team and brand CEOs, is 
regularly engaged with and updated on material topics.
At the operational level, the chief communications & 
public affairs officer oversees Yum!’s global reputation, 
assesses and manages ESG risks and shapes the Global 
Citizenship & Sustainability strategy in partnership 
with the chief sustainability officer & vice president of 
Global Government Affairs and other senior leaders who 
comprise our ESG Council, including:
• chief operating officer & chief people officer
• chief financial officer
• chief communications & public affairs officer
• chief sustainability officer & vice president of global 
government affairs
• chief strategy officer
• chief food safety officer
• chief equity & inclusion officer
• chief legal & franchise officer & corporate secretary
• chief food innovation officer
• chief development officer
• vice president, supply chainBOARD DIVERSITY
A diverse range of experiences and perspectives 
among our directors support the success of the board 
in overseeing our complex, varied global businesses. 
When recruiting new directors, we look for leaders from 
different backgrounds who combine a broad spectrum of 
experience and expertise with a reputation for integrity. 
For complete selection criteria and policies, please see our 
corporate governance principles. Currently, five of our  
12 directors are women, and three are people of color.OUR 
FRANCHISE 
MODEL
As of the end of 2021, over  
98% of our restaurants 
were franchise-owned . 
Our franchisees are an 
incredibly important part 
of our business. Yum!, 
through its brands, connects 
franchisees with suppliers of 
food, packaging, marketing 
materials and restaurant 
equipment, while these 
independent business 
owners control how their 
stores are run, where to 
build, how to recruit and 
train team members, what 
benefits to provide, and how 
to compensate employees. 
We work to cultivate 
strong relationships with 
franchisees in all parts of 
the world, and they’re crucial 
partners as we continue to 
make progress on our  
ESG journey.
APPROACH APPROACH
10 11TRUEVIEW INSIGHTS  
ACROSS OUR BUSINESS
2,500
surveys issued
155 
countries 
Tracking suppliers’ compliance  
with animal welfare standards
Auditing for safety hazards to food, 
 packaging and people 
Generating reports that we can use to inform planning
Becoming more intelligent and predictive over time 
Transparency & 
Verification 
High integrity data is a 
key element to help us 
drive progress against our 
commitments and enable 
regular, transparent disclosure. 
Attention to ESG issues, such as addressing climate 
change and inequality, must be part of any company’s 
approach to enterprise risk management (ERM), and 
Yum! is no exception. We continue to evaluate how 
priority ESG issues integrate into our global ERM 
activities. This allows us to sharpen our top ESG issues 
from an ERM perspective and prioritize them according 
to their importance to our business and stakeholders. 
To support further data transparency and disclosure, 
we are increasing our investments in technology. 
TrueView™, our data collection tool, captures 
information gathered throughout the company, such as 
by our food safety and supply chain teams, providing a 
comprehensive picture of our business. In 2021, the tool 
was used to collect important ESG data such as equity 
and inclusion, food safety, utility consumption, supply 
chain procurement and philanthropy metrics, and was 
used across all business units and almost all functions in 
2022. We plan to have it fully rolled out to all functions 
for ESG survey activities by 2023. 
We have also established a global membership in Sedex, 
an organization that works with businesses to strengthen 
responsible supply chain  practices with our initial  
focus on improving working conditions in global  
supply chains. Materiality
Regular materiality assessments help us identify 
and prioritize our most significant ESG impacts, 
risks and opportunities. We conducted our most 
recent assessment in 2021, soliciting input from 
a diverse range of key internal and external 
stakeholders that have expertise and a vested 
interest on the ESG issues impacting our industry, 
including company leaders, investors, franchisees, 
suppliers, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), 
industry associations and thought leaders. The 
result is a list of 20 priority topics, mapped in 
the materiality matrix at right. Animal Welfare 
was categorized under the Planet pillar when this 
materiality assessment was conducted; however, 
it is now captured within the Food section of our 
Recipe for Good structure.
While all topics are important and can impact 
business success, the most important outcome of 
our assessment was the emergence of five clear 
Tier I topics: Climate Impact; Equity, Inclusion 
& Belonging; Food Safety; Packaging; and 
Operational Waste & Recycling. Each of these topics 
was judged to be highly important both to Yum! 
and our stakeholders, and we will provide the most 
robust discussion on these topics in our reporting 
going forward.Choice  & Nutrition Food Safety
Food Techno logy
& GMO sRespons ible Marketing Climate Impact
Animal WelfareSustainabl e Sourcing
WaterOper ation al Wast e & Recycl ing Packaging
Commu nity & Ph ilanthropyEquity, Inclusion & Belonging
Employee  Health & SafetyHuman Rights & Labor Pract ices 
Talent Attraction , Engage ment  & Retent ionESG Corp orate Governan ce
Ethics & Compl iance
Tax 
Strat egyLobbying 
& Pu blic Policy
Information  Security & Data Privac yImportanc e to External Stakeholders
Importance to Internal Stakeholders
Food Planet People Govern anceYum! Materiality Matrix
13Antibiotics in food
International Consortium 
for Antimicrobial 
Stewardship in Agriculture 
 
Renewable energy 
certificates (RECs)
3Degrees
 
 
Deforestation
New York Declaration  
on Forests 
 Food insecurity
Food Donation 
Connection 
 
Human rights and 
working conditions 
in our supply chain
Sedex 
 
Animal welfare
International Poultry 
Welfare Alliance
 
Circular economy
NextGen Consortium 
 Entrepreneurship
University of Louisville 
 
Economic equality
OneTen Coalition
 
 
Employee training  
& education 
Initiative for a 
Competitive Inner City
 
APPROACH
Reporting & Disclosures
Regular reporting is the primary way that we share our progress 
and show transparency around our ESG practices. In addition 
to publishing annual updates on our Recipe for Good, which is 
completed in accordance with core Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) standards, we participate in comprehensive, voluntary 
disclosures such as the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index; CDP 
Climate Change, Forests and Water Security; the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index; and the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO) Annual Communication of Progress. We also align 
our priority areas of work with the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN SDGs).
We continue to seek ways to better meet the needs of our 
stakeholders. To that end, we are building on our first response 
to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
framework for the Food & Beverage sector and Restaurant 
industry, with a more robust data set this year. Investors 
have identified this industry-specific approach as useful for 
comparison of restaurant companies.
Yum! also discloses our climate-related risks and opportunities 
through a TCFD report . The results of our TCFD assessment, 
conducted in 2021, provide an analysis of the physical and 
regulatory risks that directly impact our restaurants and 
supply chain across regions and brands. This helps guide the 
prioritization of our work in addressing and mitigating risks of 
climate issues.
In addition to our TCFD assessment, Yum! reports on other 
priority areas including workforce diversity  and responsible 
supply chain . 
We continue to monitor other emerging frameworks  
for reporting on and responding to the risks we  
face, including the Taskforce on Nature-related  
Financial Disclosures. 
 Stakeholder Engagement 
Our key stakeholders include system employees, customers, franchisees, shareholders, suppliers, NGOs and communities. 
We follow a process for identifying, prioritizing and engaging with stakeholders on a range of issues that aligns with our 
materiality assessment in addition to a number of other factors such as brand alignment, potential impact, risk mitigation 
and shared values. Throughout this report, you can read examples of how Yum! engages with stakeholders as part of our daily 
work. A few issues on which we engage — and examples of our partners — include: APPROACH
Other key partners include:
• Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics
• American Potato Trade Alliance
• American Vegetarian Association
• Ashoka
• CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™
• Clean Energy Buyers Association
• Conference for Food Protection
• Consortium for Graduate Studies in 
Management
• Dairy Farmers of America
• Dairy Management Incorporated™
• FAI Farms Ltd
• Food Industry Asia
• Food Waste Reduction Alliance
• Hatch Enterprise
• Innovation Center’s Dairy  
Sustainability Alliance®
• Institute for Food Technologists
• International Franchise Association
• International Poultry Council
• Louisville Sustainability Council
• Multicultural Foodservice &  
Hospitality Alliance™
• National Chicken Council
• National Pork Board
• National Restaurant Association®
• National Retail Federation®
• Ocean Plastics Leadership Network
• Paradigm for Parity®
• Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil™
• Serving Europe
• Sevalanka Foundation
• Socialbee
• STOP THE TRAFFIK
• Sustainable Packaging Coalition
• Tropical Forest Alliance
• The UK Roundtable on Sustainable Soya
• USA Poultry & Egg Export Council
• U.S. Chamber Business Councils
• U.S. Green Building Council
• U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef
• U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Poultry  
& Eggs
• We Are All Human-Hispanic Promise
• Women’s Foodservice Forum
• World Wildlife Fund12
PEOPLE
14 15PEOPLE  We Unlock Opportunity
OPPORTUNITIES & CHALLENGES
• Fostering an engaging and effective culture across four brands, 
thousands of global locations and both company- and franchise- 
owned restaurants
• Retaining employees in a competitive labor market by offering a range 
of benefits and providing opportunities for people to grow their careers 
• Promoting equity, inclusion and belonging within the system and in 
the communities where we and our franchisees operate
• Ensuring that we are gathering the right metrics as we seek to  
make progress 
KEY TAKEAWAYS
• Approved over $50 million in funding to almost 30 social impact 
programs across nine countries through our Unlocking Opportunity 
Initiative (UOI) to fight inequality inside and outside Yum! through 
equity and inclusion, education and entrepreneurship. 
• We launched Coach Academy, a global, virtual program for people 
managers and continued to expand the availability of Heartstyles, a 
leadership development program, in restaurants.  
• The New Legacy Summit provided a forum for high-potential Black and 
Hispanic employees to network and interact with Yum! leadership. 
• We continue to learn about the complexities of our supply chain and  
its intersections with human rights and are beginning to develop 
phased onboarding plans for our global markets to the Sedex supply 
chain platform. MATERIAL ISSUES
• Equity, Inclusion & Belonging
• Employee Health & Safety
• Talent Attraction, Engagement & Retention
• Community & Philanthropy
• Human Rights & Labor Practices
ALIGNED UN SDG s
Harvest, Yum!’s prepared food donation 
program, continues to feed people through 
donations to hunger relief organizations. 
Education is one of the focus areas of 
the UOI, through which we will make 
investments to help system employees 
and community members grow their skills.
Our franchise restaurants provide jobs for 
more than 1 million people worldwide, 
and we’re constantly evaluating 
opportunities to support our franchisees 
as they address the development needs 
and aspirations of system restaurant 
teams and leaders.
As part of the UOI, key markets for each 
brand are implementing programs that 
address local inequities in communities.
PEOPLE PEOPLE
17
Deepening our investments in efforts to 
create equity, inclusion and belonging  
 across all aspects of our brands and 
throughout our franchise businesses  
and beyond.Expanding access and funding of 
education and skills training to empower 
restaurant team members and other 
frontline workers, to build their best lives 
and also uplift our communities.Creating pathways to entrepreneurship for 
restaurant employees wanting to lead a 
business, franchise or social enterprise, as well 
as for small businesses and social entrepreneurs 
looking to make a meaningful difference  
in their communities.Equity & Inclusion Education EntrepreneurshipUnlocking Opportunity 
Yum! Brands’ social purpose is to unlock opportunity for our 
restaurant team members, franchisees and communities. 
We do this by providing employment and professional 
development opportunities that allow people to build 
rewarding careers. By investing in tools and resources 
to support our franchisees, particularly those from 
underrepresented backgrounds. And by making strategic 
investments in the thousands of communities that we operate 
in around the world. We are focused in three areas:  
Equity & Inclusion, Education and Entrepreneurship.While we’re known for our food, everything that we do 
is made possible by our people. We’re building on our 
strengths and taking on new challenges by investing in 
strategic initiatives that unlock opportunity and create an 
inclusive culture for all talent to thrive at work and at home. 
That means investing in globally scalable development 
programs that franchisees can leverage to benefit system 
employees, with a focus on restaurant general managers 
(RGMs), so we can unlock growth for our 1,500 franchisees 
and make a difference in the world.SUPPORTING  
OUR EMPLOYEES  
Attracting and retaining unrivaled 
talent gives us a competitive 
advantage. For our above-restaurant 
corporate employees, that means 
offering flexible, hybrid work 
options, knowing that geographic 
flexibility gives us access to ever-
wider pools of talent. 
Yum! is also evolving the way we 
care for employees by expanding 
paid sick time, employee assistance 
programs and mental health benefits 
for corporate employees. In the 
U.S., we added dedicated mental 
health counselors that employees 
can call or meet with directly and 
began offering our programs in 
more international markets and to 
franchisees. 
We assess our people’s satisfaction 
with the work environment we’ve 
created with biennial engagement 
surveys. Our most recent survey 
revealed record-high levels of 
engagement, well above industry 
benchmarks. Yum! has been investing in our people-first culture for 
25 years. The launch of the UOI in 2020 marked another 
milestone in our journey and is a critical way for us to 
achieve our social purpose. Unlocking Opportunity 
Initiative (UOI) is a five-year, $100 million commitment 
to have a positive and sustainable social impact on the 
communities where we operate and the restaurant team 
members who work on the front lines of our brands 
around the world. To date, we have awarded funding for 
almost 30 social impact programs across nine countries, 
with several more underdevelopment.
UOI was designed around the following key principles:
• Provide a global framework for local 
relevance, enabling each of our brands to 
bring UOI to life in its own unique way, based 
on market relevancy and brand purpose 
• Deliver systemic change by closely partnering 
with nonprofit organizations that are tackling 
the root cause of societal issues
• Create measurable impact that ladders up to 
selected UN SDGs 
• Be self-sustaining, utilizing UOI as seed 
investment to build lasting programs and 
funding mechanisms that endure
UOI is supported by robust governance, which includes 
working with third-party vendors to conduct due 
diligence on possible grantees, a cross-functional 
investment committee, which reviews program 
proposals and approves funding levels and a third-party 
impact measurement partner who works directly with 
nonprofits to report on program KPIs.Equity & InclusionIn 2021, Yum! helped unlock opportunity in each of 
our three focus areas, inside and outside our company, 
through UOI funding and other initiatives. 
EQUITY, INCLUSION & BELONGING
As a major employer, a global franchisor and an 
important part of cultures and communities around the 
world, fostering equity, inclusion & belonging (EIB) is 
a top priority. Whether in our board rooms or our four 
brands’ restaurants, we’re making room for all people 
and voices at our tables. 
Employee Initiatives 
Yum!’s chief equity & inclusion officer oversees all 
equity, inclusion and belonging initiatives. However, 
to truly deliver against our bold ambitions, we are also 
democratizing accountability for this work amongst 
other Yum! leaders, including our chief operating 
officer & chief people officer, chief communications & 
public affairs officer, chief legal & franchise officer and 
chief financial officer. This allows us to reach all our key 
stakeholders  — employees, customers, franchisees, 
suppliers and communities — and keep EIB top of mind 
and embedded in our decision-making. 
We are making space for conversations about these 
important topics through forums like Yum!’s new 
internal podcast, “Belonging.” The podcast has hosted 
discussions between Yum! employees at all levels 
on topics such as reverse mentoring and confronting 
stereotypes about certain/specific ethnicities and 
cultures. Employee resource groups (ERGs) remain a way 
for like-minded employees to connect. In 2021, Yum! 
launched a new Women in Technology ERG, and  
The Habit Burger Grill launched its first ERG, C.R.A.F.T.,  
for multicultural employees.Yum! supports leaders on their EIB journeys in many ways—
as well as creating pathways for people from historically 
underrepresented backgrounds to succeed. Some of our 
development opportunities include: 
• Inclusive Leadership − A training program on 
unconscious bias, developed in partnership with 
Heartstyles. The program has been offered to 
corporate employees, RGMs and, most recently, to 
franchisees. 
• New Legacy Summit − An in-person gathering 
designed for Black and Hispanic employees and 
attended by Yum!’s executive leadership team. 
This new program will help create community 
and understanding and build future leaders 
throughout the organization. 
• Reverse Mentorship − Intentional relationships 
between employees at different levels and 
from different backgrounds that create deep 
understanding between mentors and mentees, as 
well as opportunities for advancement. 
• Leadership Pipeline Program − Cultivating 
relationships with high-potential Black and 
Hispanic talent so that they consider Yum! in 
future career decisions.Connections Across Our Recipe for 
Growth & Good
Relevant,  Easy 
& Distinctive Br ands
Innovate and elevate iconic restaura
brands people trust and championnt
Unmatched 
Oper ating C apabilit y
Recruit and equip the best
restaurant ope rators in 
the world to deliver
great customer
experience s
Bold Re staura nt
Development
Drive mark et and fr anchise 
unit expansion with 
strong economics 
and valueUnrivaled Culture  & Talent
Levera ge culture  and people 
capability to fuel bra nd 
performance and 
franchise success
Planet
Grow 
sustainably
Food
Serve delicious
food people trust
PeopleGOODGOODGROW TH
PEOPLE PEOPLE
18 19External Commitments
In addition to the internal actions taken within Yum! and 
our brands, we have joined several national and global 
commitments designed to make an impact on a larger 
scale. In recent years, we have significantly increased 
the number of women in senior leadership across the 
organization and are on track to achieve gender parity in 
leadership globally by 2030 in alignment with Paradigm 
for Parity®.  
We have also committed to the Hispanic Promise, a 
national pledge to hire, promote, retain and celebrate 
Hispanics in the workplace, and the CEO Action for 
Diversity & Inclusion. And as a member of the OneTen 
coalition, we are partnering with a group of U.S. 
businesses to create career mobility and advancement 
opportunities for 1 million Black individuals over 
the next 10 years. In 2021, Yum! hired or promoted 
employees into family-sustaining-wage jobs at CONNECTING FRANCHISEES  
& COMMUNITIES
Taco Bell is creating deeper 
connections with consumers, 
employees and franchisees as culture 
and social priorities continue to 
advance. As part of this work, the 
brand partnered with cultural impact 
agency Cashmere who helped pilot 
a series of interactive events. Select 
franchisees sat down with local 
community leaders for discussions 
around emerging cultural spaces, 
intersectional identities and what 
it means for Taco Bell. These events 
aimed to empower franchisees with a 
better understanding of the changing 
consumer base and to equip them to 
become culture leaders.our equity-owned stores and corporate offices at a 
significantly higher rate than the OneTen signatory 
average of 50 new jobs. 
Yum! is also a member of the Publicis Media Once & For 
All Coalition, a multiyear, cross-industry collaboration 
to build a more equitable advertising ecosystem for 
ethnically diverse media suppliers, content creators 
and production partners, with an initial focus on Black 
and Hispanic suppliers. We have established a U.S. 
Multicultural Marketing Leadership Council to drive 
cross-brand implementation of our multicultural 
marketing strategies, including multiyear partnerships 
with diverse-owned media, content creators and 
production properties, and are committed to significantly 
increasing our marketing spend with agencies owned by 
people from underrepresented communities.
KEY EQUITY & INCLUSION PARTNERSHIPSEDUCATION
An education is an asset that can open many doors. Yum! invests in both 
personal and professional development programs for employees and 
education initiatives in local communities. 
In 2021, we introduced Coach Academy, a global, virtual program for 
managers on how to be an effective leader and coach. More than 750 
employees participated in the first cohort of this program. We also 
rolled out the Heartstyles leadership development program, Leading 
with Heart, now available in 26 languages, to franchisees and RGMs 
worldwide. Evidence from multiple markets suggests that participation 
in this program helps reduce turnover and improves customer 
satisfaction. Within Pizza Hut, more than 5,500 RGMs have been 
trained in the brand’s custom leadership course, Leading With a  
Growth Mindset. 
We have an important role to play in helping people further their 
educations—particularly in the foodservice and restaurant industries. 
At Pizza Hut South Africa, the LeadHERship program, in partnership 
with the nonprofit, YES4Youth, is connecting young females from 
marginalized communities, with access to education and career 
opportunities. The Youth Employability Program has been developed 
with the Sevalanka Foundation and Pizza Hut to provide vocational 
education (food preparation, service, soft skills, hygiene and grooming, 
financial management and English language) and certification for 
people with disabilities and marginalized youth. Over four years, the 
program will refurbish and develop 31 vocational training centers and 
train more than 3,000 students.
For use on White
ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
As a global franchisor, helping people realize the benefits of franchise ownership 
is something we’re uniquely positioned to do. The Yum! Center for Global 
Franchise Excellence at the University of Louisville is creating new opportunities 
in franchising for underrepresented individuals. In 2021, we launched the Yum! 
Franchise Accelerator, a one-of-a-kind MBA elective opportunity supporting 
underrepresented people of color and women interested in the franchise restaurant 
industry. Meanwhile, Taco Bell launched the Taco Bell Business School, a six-
week program specifically designed to help turn Taco Bell restaurant leaders into 
entrepreneurs. Pizza Hut recently hosted a Pathways to Possibility conference that 
highlighted the benefits of franchise ownership.
In the U.S. and Canada, KFC and Pizza Hut are partnering with Initiative for a 
Competitive Inner City on a free executive education and virtual training program 
designed to help strengthen and grow minority, immigrant, indigenous and 
disabled-owned small businesses. Other entrepreneurship programs include the 
Taco Bell Ambition Accelerator Program, a new program through which we will 
provide funding to young social entrepreneurs to develop their business ideas. Entrepreneurship
PEOPLE PEOPLE
20 21Social Purpose Activated at Our Brands
Below is a selection of programs funded by the UOI, demonstrating our global reach and the potential impact 
we can have in our three focus areas when our brands partner with experienced nonprofits.Brand Community Impact 
Our brands have been giving back to their communities for decades, particularly in the areas of hunger relief, literacy 
and youth education. We continue to respond to the numerous natural and human-made disasters around the world that 
impact communities and have continued to provide assistance to those still acutely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
DISASTER & 
PANDEMIC RELIEF 
Yum! Brands’ social purpose initiatives are enabled 
by the Yum! Brands Foundation. The foundation 
also supports our priorities related to hunger 
relief, literacy and COVID-19 relief, as well as 
responding to disasters that affect our employees 
and franchisees in all parts of the world. We use 
matching gift programs to multiply the support 
these causes receive. In 2021 and early 2022, the 
foundation responded to disasters including: 
• Tropical Depression Eta (Honduras) 
• Johor flooding (Malaysia)
• Winter Storm Uri (U.S.)
• New South Wales and Queensland  
flooding (Australia) 
• Civil unrest (South Africa)
• Tropical Storm Elsa (Barbados) 
• Hurricane Ida (U.S.) 
• Midwest tornado (U.S.) 
• Typhoon Rai (Philippines) 
• Russia-Ukraine War (Ukraine) EDUCATION
The Taco Bell Foundation reached its goal of awarding: 
The Taco Bell Foundation awarded $8 million in Live 
Más Scholarships in 2022, with more than $2 million 
supporting Taco Bell team members. The Taco Bell 
Foundation is also awarding more than $7 million to  
400 youth-serving nonprofit organizations across the 
country through its Community Grants program.
In the U.S., Pizza Hut  has operated the BOOK IT! 
reading program for students since 1984. The program 
– designed by educators, implemented by teachers, 
and encouraged by parents – was created in an effort 
to foster a lifelong love of reading and increase literacy 
rates across the country. The brand continues to offer the 
BOOK IT! Bundle, a meal deal that donates $1 from every 
purchase to its nonprofit literacy partner, First Book, to 
provide access to book and educational resources.
The Habit Burger Grill has engaged with ProStart, a 
culinary education organization, and other partners on a 
culinary competition through which prospective students 
can earn scholarships.HUNGER RELIEF
Harvest is Yum!’s signature food donation program, 
through which surplus food from KFC and Pizza 
Hut restaurants is donated to food banks and other 
organizations in need. Since 1992, this program has 
enabled us to: 
donate 
213 MILLION 
pounds of food and avoid the negative 
environmental impacts of food waste. 
KFC South Africa  continued its popular Add Hope 
program, which became even more essential in light  
of chronic food shortages in the country. The program  
is funded by customers rounding up the cost of  
their meals. 
The Habit Burger Grill has a 
long-term partnership with No 
Kid Hungry and provides both 
food donations and monetary 
support to local food-security 
organizations, including  
Second Harvest Food Bank. Yum! Center for Global 
Franchise Excellence
University of Louisville
United States | Yum!Ambition Accelerator
Taco Bell Foundation & Ashoka
United States | Taco Bell
3x Youth Employability  
Program
Sevalanka Foundation
Sri Lanka | Pizza HutFeeding Minds
ProLiteracy
Egypt | KFCNas’aa
Al-Nahda
Saudi Arabia | KFC
BucketSearch
Equitable Education Fund
Thailand | KFCInner City Capital Connections
Initiative for a Competitive Inner City
Canada & United States | KFC & Pizza Hut
LeadHERShip
YES4Youth
South Africa | Pizza HutHatch
UK Youth
United Kingdom | KFCa cumulative   
$21 MILLION  
in Live Más Scholarships  
by the end of 2021.PEOPLE PEOPLE
22 23
Ethics & Human Rights  
At Yum!, we understand our 
long-term success and growth 
is predicated on operating a 
resilient and socially responsible 
business that creates value for all 
stakeholders. A key component of 
this is the high standard of ethical 
conduct we set for ourselves 
and our stakeholders, particularly franchisees and 
suppliers. We reference many leading frameworks in 
building our policies and procedures, including the UN 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and 
the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration 
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our 
commitments and expectations around these standards 
are expressed in our Global Code of Conduct  for which 
all employees are required to certify their acceptance as 
part of annual compliance training, which also covers 
anti-discrimination and harassment.
When it comes to interacting with one another, 
employees are expected to demonstrate mutual respect. 
Sexual, racial, ethnic, religious or any other type of 
harassment has no place at Yum!. It is our policy to 
deal fairly with employees; provide equal opportunity 
for all in recruiting, hiring, developing, promoting and 
compensating without regard to race, religion, color, 
age, gender, disability, genetic information, military or 
veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity and/
or expression, citizenship, national origin or other legally 
protected status; maintain a professional, safe and 
discrimination- free work environment; and recognize 
and compensate employees based on their performance.
We encourage employees to raise any ethical or other 
concerns relating to our operations. Employees have 
24/7 access to an independent, third-party-operated 
ethics hotline and online portal, known as The Speak 
Up Helpline. Translation services in nine different 
languages are available. The Audit Committee of our 
board of directors has additional procedures for handling 
employee concerns related to accounting and auditing 
matters. Any person may also use the Yum! corporate 
citizenship email address listed on Yum.com to raise  
ESG-related issues.
SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY & HUMAN RIGHTS
We view our suppliers as key stakeholders within our 
wider system. At a minimum, suppliers are required to 
abide by all applicable laws, codes or regulations and to 
conform their practices to the published standards for 
their industry. 
Our Supplier Code of Conduct  is a mandatory declaration 
for all suppliers seeking to work with Yum! Brands and 
clearly articulates our expectations of compliance on 
operational standards, ethics and human rights. In 
addition, we have commitments in key sourcing areas, 
including palm oil through our membership to the  
RSPO and fresh produce as part of the Fair Food 
Standards Council.
Our suppliers have always been subject to assessments, 
audits and inspections to verify compliance with 
our Supplier Code of Conduct and the terms of their 
contract. Where corrective action is required, we strive 
to work collaboratively with suppliers to address areas of 
concern and effect real change, but reserve our right to 
termination.While responding to identified issues is important, we 
are committed to building a more proactive response to 
managing ethical risks within our supply chain. In 2020, 
Yum! established a global membership with Sedex, 
one of the world’s leading ethical trade membership 
organizations that works with businesses to create more 
responsible and sustainable business practices. Sedex 
assesses risk at each supplier site, across four main 
areas — labor standards, health and safety, business 
ethics and environment — and uses a combination 
of self-assessments and third-party, ethical audits to 
determine both potential and actual exposure. Gaining 
this additional visibility further strengthens our existing 
supply chain auditing capabilities, adding increased 
focus on human rights and labor practices, within 
responsible sourcing more broadly.To date, our KFC U.K. & Ireland, KFC Western Europe and 
KFC South Pacific (SOPAC) markets are active in Sedex and 
have undergone a rigorous supplier onboarding process 
over several years. We are leveraging learnings from these 
markets to develop the global strategic implementation 
plan to drive system-wide adoption and, in doing so, 
are reassessing our timeline for execution given the 
complexities encountered. Our initial focus remains core, 
direct food suppliers in higher-risk markets where we 
believe we can have the most impact. Our work is informed 
by our recent inherent risk assessment, which indicated 
potential areas of concern in developing geographies, and 
within the manufacturing and agriculture, forestry and 
fishing industries (specifically meat packing and processing, 
palm oil and hand-picked agriculture).
The recent and continuing supply chain challenges highlight 
the importance of embedding further resilience into our 
supply chain. We consider Sedex a powerful tool to achieve 
this by gaining better data and insights into our suppliers’ 
operations and establishing a broader set of values upon 
which we do business.
Markets around the world, such as Australia and the U.K., 
have strengthened regulations regarding human rights 
issues that include modern slavery, forced labor and the 
rights of migrant workers. While our restaurants are not 
particularly at risk for these issues, our brands are working 
to improve their own due diligence around these topics in 
order to comply. KFC U.K. & Ireland is working with STOP 
THE TRAFFIK, a human trafficking prevention organization, 
on a supply chain risk mapping focused on high-risk 
packaging and food suppliers for Western Europe. In 
addition, an e-learning package will be launched to help 
our restaurant teams identify modern slavery issues.Commit
Track &  
MonitorActionIdentify &
AssessCommunicate  
& Report
Stakeholder
Engagement
Grievance &
RemedySupplier Engagement  
Due Diligence Approach
25
 24 25FOOD  Dashboard
OPPORTUNITIES & 
CHALLENGES
• Using data to better manage and respond to risks related 
to food safety and quality 
• Responding to consumer trends and balancing 
preferences for craveable menu items with commitments 
to improve the nutritional profile of our food
• Creating transparency around how animals used 
for our food are cared for at every phase of life and 
communicating animal welfare practices to stakeholders
KEY TAKEAWAYS
• We added a risk-sensing tool to our food safety 
management system that gives us real-time visibility into 
potential food safety risks around the world.
• Despite pandemic-related disruptions, in 2021, Yum! 
achieved our highest level of supplier compliance and 
performance to date. 
• We transitioned from annual to quarterly collection of 
animal welfare data from poultry suppliers, allowing us to 
better track and drive progress. 
• In 2021, we published a report on the antimicrobial 
resistance (AMR) landscape and continue to work with 
industry partners to make progress on this issue. MATERIAL ISSUES
• Food Safety
• Choice & Nutrition
• Food Technology & GMOs
• Responsible Marketing
• Animal Welfare 
ALIGNED UN SDG s
Harvest, Yum!’s prepared food donation 
program, continues to feed people through 
donations to hunger relief organizations. 
Harvest also allows us to address the challenge 
of food waste by diverting food from the 
landfill and reducing GHG emissions.FOOD  We Serve Food People Trust
27
FOOD
27FOOD
Food Safety
Maintaining food safety and quality are foundational to 
protecting customers and upholding their trust. Food 
safety is not a competitive advantage, but rather a public 
health imperative, and there is always room for us to 
improve. Throughout the challenges of the pandemic 
and beyond, we are proud of the work our food safety 
teams around the globe have done to ensure we’ve 
upheld our standards and protected guests. We attribute 
our success to consistent communication about — and 
leadership focus on — food safety. EVOLVING OUR PROGRAMS 
In 2021, Yum! expanded our food safety management 
system to include new risk-sensing capabilities. Our risk-
sensing tool constantly scans for potential risks to food, 
packaging or people, and notifies us of hazards and their 
potential impacts to our suppliers or business. 
For example, droughts can lead to water potability 
issues, which can, in turn, impact suppliers and 
restaurants in affected areas. Early awareness of possible 
drought conditions allows us to work with experts in 
water quality and sanitation and implement protective 
measures like improved filtration systems. The tool relies 
on predictive analytics, and will become more effective 
over time, allowing us to continuously improve how we 
respond to risks. 
Innovation is a top priority at Yum! and testing ideas 
for potential adoption across our restaurants. Many 
concepts are relevant to food safety, such as sensors and 
cameras that simplify manual tasks and enable us to 
identify and address issues in real time. 
While technology is allowing us to work smarter, there 
is no substitute for the expert judgment that our food 
safety teams can provide. Today, our leaders are evolving 
from compliance managers to risk managers, and we 
are investing in their continued development at Yum!. 
Twice per year, we conduct global talent assessments of 
our food safety organization to identify high-potential 
talent and expose them to opportunities such as job 
shadows, professional conferences and new roles across 
our brands. This increased knowledge and experience, in 
turn, leads to a stronger food safety organization. EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT
Yum! food safety leaders are in constant conversation 
with our suppliers and franchisees through audits, 
conferences and other communications. We have end-
to-end visibility of our global and local supply chain, 
including active management with each supplier to our 
rigorous standards. As a result of this close engagement, 
in 2021, Yum! achieved our highest level of supplier 
compliance and performance to date. 
We also engage globally and locally with industry 
partners and regulators to align on food safety risks 
and mitigation strategies. In 2020, we formed virtual 
“colleges” that convened suppliers, franchisees and 
third-party auditors for continuing education and 
discussion of food safety topics. While these were 
initially established in response to pandemic-related 
travel limitations, we continue to offer this virtual  
format, which has significantly increased participation 
and engagement. 
Yum! has conducted  
more than
578K+
restaurant food safety 
audits since 2016.
26Balanced Choices Across Our Portfolio 
Yum! strives to offer choice on our menus and evolve our offerings in 
ways that matter most to our consumers. We pay close attention to 
consumer trends regarding nutrients or ingredients to add or limit in 
our menu items, and we strive to provide options that meet a wide 
range of consumer values, lifestyle choices and dietary needs. 
In 2021, we announced a global strategic partnership with Beyond 
Meat, Inc. Through this partnership, we’re leveraging our brands’ 
industry-leading research and development capabilities to co-create 
new plant-based protein menu items.
Some of these changes result in new menu items designed to catch 
consumers’ attention. Other changes are made more quietly designed 
to improve our food’s nutritional profile without compromising  
delicious taste. 
Here are a few highlights: 
Sodium reduction
In 2021, the U.S. Federal Drug 
Administration (FDA) released its 
voluntary guidance for sodium 
reduction for the food industry, 
and after conducting an analysis 
we found that, on average, 75% 
of our individual products in the 
U.S. meet its upper bound sodium 
concentration targets.
Plant-based cheeses
Offered at a growing number of 
Pizza Hut restaurants including in 
Portugal, Spain and the U.K.
Clean labeling 
We continue our efforts to remove 
artificial colors, artificial flavors and 
PHOs from core food ingredients 
globally by 2025.
Balanced options
By 2030, we intend to represent 
50% of menu food offerings to 
be consistent with Yum! global 
nutrition criteria for meal options. 
As of 2021, our brands were 64% 
of the way there, putting us on 
track to meet the goal.
Plant-based proteins
Pizza Hut has made Beyond 
Pepperoni a permanent menu 
item in some markets.
Better beverages
In the U.S., Taco Bell aims to meet 
its 2022 goal of offering at least 
50% of its medium (20 fl oz) 
fountain beverages at 100 calories 
or less and 20 grams of sugar  
or less.
FOOD
28 29
FOOD
Animal Welfare 
At Yum! Brands, we have a responsibility to be a good 
steward of the animals raised for food throughout our 
supply chain. Our approach is articulated in our Global 
Animal Welfare Policy and guided by our Sustainable 
Animal Protein Principles and the experts on our  
Animal Welfare Advisory Council. We also support the 
Five Freedoms  for all animals used for food. 
Visibility into our supply chain is an important part of 
how we make progress because Yum! itself does not 
raise or process animals. In 2021, we transitioned from 
annual to quarterly collection of chicken welfare data 
from our suppliers to better track progress and identify 
and address gaps more quickly. To better support data 
collection, we also established animal welfare leaders 
within each of our regional markets that are responsible 
for responding to this data and engaging with suppliers 
as appropriate.
CHICKEN 
The welfare of chickens — both those who lay eggs used 
in products across our brands and broiler chickens used 
for meat — is a material topic for our stakeholders and the 
greatest focus of our animal welfare programs. 
In 2021, Yum! announced a new cage-free egg 
commitment, pledging to:  
transition to
100% CAGE-FREE EGGS
for the majority of restaurants by 2026, 
including the U.S., Western Europe and other 
leading markets, across all brands and for all 
menu items and ingredients. Longer-term, we hope to transition to 100% cage-free 
eggs by 2030. We expect supply challenges as we 
work toward this goal and will be transparent about the 
challenges we face and the progress we make in the 
years to come. 
These commitments build upon previous actions, 
including Taco Bell’s transition to cage-free eggs for the 
U.S. in 2016 and Canada in 2018, and transitions in 
other market areas including KFC Western Europe and 
Pizza Hut U.K. To help us work toward this goal, Yum!’s 
supply chain management organization has created a 
transition plan that identifies all menu items with egg 
ingredients and the suppliers associated with each. 
Regarding broiler chicken welfare, we are working to 
increase transparency and create consistency across 
our brands and around the world. KFC has established 
global chicken key welfare indicators (KWIs) and in 
2022, shared its global chicken welfare platform . KFC 
U.K. & Ireland and KFC Western Europe published a 
second welfare progress report in 2021, and KFC U.S.  
published a similar report earlier this year. Membership 
in the International Poultry Welfare Alliance and the U.S. 
Roundtable for Sustainable Poultry & Eggs allows us 
to give input to emerging industry-level indicators and 
reporting frameworks and ensure we are aligned with 
our peers. 
OTHER PROTEINS
Beyond poultry, our company is taking action on other 
proteins of interest to our stakeholders. Dairy-based 
cheese is a major sourcing category for Pizza Hut. 
The brand conducted a survey of select core cheese 
suppliers’ welfare practices and confirmed that all have 
animal welfare programs in place. Limiting Antibiotic Use 
Keeping farm animals healthy occasionally requires 
the use of antibiotics. Yum! shares concerns 
regarding the rising threat of AMR and supports the 
thoughtful and judicious use of these treatments. 
We also support One Health, a holistic and multi-
sector, long-term effort to combat AMR by the 
United Nations World Health Organization (WHO), 
the Food and Agriculture Organization, the World 
Organisation for Animal Health and other  
key stakeholders.
In 2021, Yum! published a report  detailing potential 
strategies for eliminating the systemwide costs 
of AMR. By continuing to better understand the 
broader AMR landscape and existing research, 
we will continue to make progress around 
programs and policies that will improve the global 
AMR challenge. We remain compliant with our 
previously met KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell public 
commitments to reduce antibiotics important to 
human medicine in our U.S. poultry supply chains. 
Additionally, Pizza Hut U.S. is working toward 
removing antibiotics from chicken used for wings 
and expects to meet this goal by the end of 2022.
NATIONAL PROGRESS TOWARD ANTIBIOTICS REDUCTION 
Reducing the use of medically important antimicrobials is an important priority across our industry. Through a 
combination of government and private sector actions, a reduction of antimicrobial use has been seen by the FDA.   
MEDICALLY IMPORTANT ANTIMICROBIAL DRUGS APPROVED FOR USE IN  
FOOD-PRODUCING ANIMALS DOMESTIC SALES ACTIVELY MARKETED IN 2016 –2020
Species2016 
Estimated 
Annual 
Totals (kg)32017 
Estimated 
Annual 
Totals (kg)32018 
Estimated 
Annual 
Totals (kg)32019 
Estimated 
Annual 
Totals (kg)32020 
Estimated 
Annual 
Totals (kg)3% Change 
2016–2020% Change 
2019–2020
Cattle 3,605,543 2,333,839 2, 517, 38 6 2,529,281 2,449,441 -32% -3%
Source: FDA Antimicrobials Sold or Distributed for Use in Food-Producing Animals Summary Report
In 2019, Taco Bell committed to reduce antibiotics important to human health in its U.S. and Canada beef supply 
chain by 25% by 2025 and pledged to provide an interim update on its progress in 2022. At the halfway mark 
toward this goal, the brand is seeing a decline in the use of medically important antibiotics across the animal 
protein industry. In 2019, Taco Bell published a Beef Policy and has since made progress with approximately 15%  
of its raw beef supply being procured from reduced antibiotic sources.
The brand is engaging with industry partners on best practices and next steps to improve antibiotic use. Taco 
Bell has been an active member of the U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef (USRSB) since 2017 and shares 
sustainability aspirations with the organization, including its recently announced climate goal. In 2021, Taco Bell 
joined the International Consortium for Antimicrobial Stewardship in Agriculture (ICASA). Through ICASA, industry 
participants and public sector funding have authorized $4.4 million in antimicrobial research.
30 31PLANET Dashboard
OPPORTUNITIES & CHALLENGES
• Tracking climate impacts of the products we source across a 
multitiered and global supply chain, while also mitigating risk of 
disruption and meeting customer demands
• Moving the needle on renewable energy and emissions reduction for 
our company and franchisees
• Responding to fragmented global regulations around sustainable 
packaging and leading in circularity
KEY TAKEAWAYS
• Following a multiyear process of data collection and analyzing impacts 
across our value chain, we announced our first SBTs in 2021.
• Yum! initiated a global study on renewable energy markets in 2022  
to identify and invest in low carbon solutions at restaurants across  
the globe. 
• To educate and engage with suppliers on the subject of GHG, we 
joined Supplier LoCT, a training program, where our focus is on beef, 
poultry and dairy emission reductions in support of our science-based 
targets.
• A variety of partnerships and programs with suppliers, NGOs, 
governments and industry are underway to address deforestation  
and related risks. 
• A harmonized packaging policy has been created for all brands, with 
a focus on eliminating unnecessary packaging, shifting materials, 
supporting better recovery and recycling systems, and investing in 
circularity.  
• Less than 1% of reported plastic packaging is EPS as we move toward 
achieving our target to remove 100% of EPS by the end of 2022.MATERIAL ISSUES
• Climate Impact
• Operational Waste & Recycling
• Packaging 
• Sustainable Sourcing
• Water
ALIGNED UN SDG s
At Yum!, our restaurants have taken 
steps to reduce water use, and 
we’ve conducted a global water risk 
assessment to better understand  
our footprint. 
In 2021, we announced new SBTs, 
which give us a roadmap for reducing 
GHG emissions to levels aligned with 
the Paris Agreement.
Yum! partnered with FAI Farms to 
identify and eliminate deforestation 
risk in our supply chain.PLANET  We Grow Sustainably
PLANET PLANET
32 33
OUR CLIMATE JOURNEY
OUR KEY CLIMATE ACTIVITIESOver the past several years, we have further 
prioritized our work on climate. In 2021, we 
set our first SBTs and pledged our ambition to 
achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. We will 
reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions at our 
corporate restaurants and offices 46% below 
2019 levels and will work across our value 
chain to reduce Scope 3 emissions 46% below 
2019 levels by 2030 on an intensity basis. 
To arrive at this target, we conducted an 
in-depth assessment of each area of our GHG 
impact, as well as options for abatement. 
This includes impact areas both within our 
business, such as the efficiency of offices and restaurants, and within our supply 
chain, such as the agricultural and land use 
practices employed when raising animals. 
Within our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, 89% 
are attributable to our company-owned 
restaurants, and 11% are associated with our 
offices. Through this exercise, we also learned 
that 76% of our supply chain emissions from 
purchased food come from poultry, beef and 
dairy. We are working closely with brands, 
franchisees, suppliers and producers to cut 
emissions from franchisee restaurants on a 
per-restaurant basis and on a per-metric ton 
basis for poultry, beef, dairy and packaging. Climate Action
Addressing climate change is one of Yum!’s top priorities, we’ve been on a journey to reduce our carbon footprint for more than 15 years.
Yum! GHG Reduction History
RENEWABLE 
ENERGYLAND USE 
CHANGE SUPPLY CHAIN 
EFFICIENCYEMISSION 
MITIGATIONENERGY  
EFFICIENCY Initial Areas for Emissions Reduction
As included in our approved submission to the Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi), initial research shows that our path to remove 
12.5 million metric tons (MMT) of GHG emissions by 2030 reflects 
restaurants accounting for approximately 9 MMT and supply chain 
accounting for 3.5 MMT. The roadmap below outlines our approach for 
the 46% GHG reduction.
20202030
0  
MMT12.5  
 MMT
POULTRY, 
BEEF, DAIRY & 
PACKAGINGSUPPLY CHAIN: APPROX. 30%
RESTAURANTS: APPROX. 70%
CORE  
EQUIPMENT 
EFFICIENCY ENERGY 
EFFICIENCY & 
AUTOMATION RENEWABLE 
ENERGY
Annual C orporate Restaurant & Of ﬁces GHG Emission s
(Scope 1 & 2)
YearAnnual Emissions (mtC O2e/Restaurant)500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
Emissions data shown ar e location based for 2013-2018 and mark et based since 2019 Yum! has a long history of energy reduction 
work rooted in running more sustainable and 
efficient restaurants and data collection  
and reporting. 
• Set first energy conservation goal (2006)
• Opened first green building (2009)
• Started CDP Climate disclosure (2010)
• Introduced Green Building  
standard (2014)Over the years, we’ve strengthened our 
climate work by making commitments beyond 
restaurants energy usage and assessing our 
systemwide carbon footprint.  
• Set first palm oil goal (2015)
• Committed major supply chains to no 
deforestation (2019)
• Conducted GHG inventory (2019)
• Set target to transition 1,000 of our 
restaurants to renewable electricityOn the heels of setting climate targets and 
conducting a climate risk assessment, Yum! is 
focused on climate action through projects that 
offer scalability while addressing key risk areas. 
• Establishing SBTs and net-zero  
pledge (2021)
• Prioritizing climate actions through  
the TCFD (2021)GETTING STARTED EXPANDING THE SCOPE DRIVING CHANGE 1 2 3
We have made long-term steady 
progress due to development 
of more efficient new buildings, 
energy conservation measures in 
existing buildings, refranchising 
and improvement in utility use of 
renewable energy.PLANET PLANET
34 35SUPPLY CHAIN
Reducing emissions in our supply chain is a critical 
priority on the path to reach our climate goals. According 
to the Environmental Protection Agency, agriculture 
made up 11% of GHG emissions in the U.S. in 2020. 
Reducing emissions from the food that we purchase 
and achieving our SBTs requires us to work closely with 
our suppliers. This includes both educating suppliers 
on sustainable practices and learning from those who 
are already leaders in this space. In 2021, we joined the 
Supplier LoCT, a consortium of multinational companies 
created to accelerate action throughout the supply chain 
in the march toward net-zero GHG emissions. Currently, 
56% of our suppliers of beef, poultry and dairy in the U.S. 
and Canada already have climate targets in place or are 
part of the Supplier LoCT program. The program helps 
suppliers build climate knowledge, calculate emissions, 
set their own SBTs and share climate roadmaps and 
playbooks. We are planning to roll out Supplier LoCT 
more broadly around the world in the future.
Changing animals’ diets is another way to reduce 
emissions on the farm. In the U.S., Pizza Hut is 
partnering with the Dairy Farmers of America (DFA), 
and dairy suppliers on a joint dairy project to provide 
participating farmers with technology and data needed 
to help reduce GHG emissions. Pizza Hut has begun 
working alongside DFA and dairy suppliers to enroll 
interested dairy farm families within their supply 
chain, where they’ll participate in annual farm-level 
GHG and energy foot-printing through the Farmers 
Assuring Responsible Management and Environmental 
Stewardship (FARM ES) evaluation over a three-year 
period. By 2025, the end of the three-year period, Pizza 
Hut aims to source 50% of the dairy used to make its 
pizza cheese in the U.S. from dairy farms enrolled in the FARM ES program. Additionally, farmers participating 
in the program will have the chance to adopt other 
practices and technologies such as feed management 
enhancements and energy-efficient lighting.
An additional source of emissions reduction will be the 
continued expansion of plant-based protein  on our menus. 
We continue to innovate around Taco Bell’s plant-based 
beef alternative products in the U.S., Pizza Hut’s plant-
based toppings and KFC’s chicken substitutes. 
Pizza Hut U.K. introduced a 
“CARBON-NEUTRAL”
flatbread, for which we purchase  
carbon offsets from a local partner  
for each item sold.
Raising animals for food can also contribute to  
climate change in areas where deforestation occurs. 
Soy, which is a primary ingredient in our chicken feed, 
has a complex supply chain, involving soybean farmers, 
processors, feed mills, poultry suppliers and finally 
Yum! restaurants. While our business is at least five 
steps removed from the soybean field, we continue to 
work across our supply chain to achieve greater levels of 
visibility and accountability. Yum! worked with FAI Farms 
in 2021 to understand and address sourcing soy from 
areas with high risk for deforestation. In early 2022, we 
expanded our data collection process to begin accounting 
for global soy usage used as feed in our supply chain. 
In addition to animal products, we are also working to 
ensure responsible sourcing of other raw materials whose 
cultivation can contribute to deforestation, including palm 
oil and fibers used for packaging. RESTAURANTS & OFFICES 
Reducing our Scope 1 and 2 emissions requires us to 
transition to lower-carbon energy sources to power 
our offices and restaurants. Our lower-carbon energy 
journey started early on through energy efficiency at the 
restaurant level as part of our LEED building development. 
We are now exploring renewable energy options to 
benefit both equity and franchisee restaurants. Key 
lessons from this work will further our renewable energy 
plan. At the corporate level, Yum!’s U.S. offices have been 
powered 100% by renewables since 2020 through the 
use of renewable energy certificates (RECs) and a power 
purchase agreement (PPA). In 2022, we moved 1,000 of 
our restaurants to renewable electricity by purchasing 
RECs equivalent to the restaurants’ estimated, anticipated 
energy consumption. This phase is an interim step as we 
explore ways to convert more restaurants and find longer-
term solutions for renewable energy procurement.GREEN BUILDING 
PRACTICES ACROSS 
BRANDS & MARKETS 
FRANCHISEE ENGAGEMENT  
Pizza Hut developed a   
GREEN BUILDING PLAYBOOK   
that franchisees can use to improve 
sustainable building practices, stemming 
from Yum!’s Blueline standards. 
ENERGY OPTIMIZATION 
KFC is piloting multiple energy 
optimization systems across its markets.  
A recent test in Malaysia led to
SUSTAINABLE FURNISHINGS
The Habit Burger Grill is 
continuing to incorporate 
sustainable materials such 
as upholstery, lighting and 
efficiency-focused equipment 
into its restaurants. 
PROCESS IMPLEMENTATION 
In 2021, our brands reported over 125,000 
implementations of the Blueline approaches 
in their buildings. These save energy and 
water, as well as reducing our  
GHG emissions.18%   
overall energy savings.
In 2021, KFC U.K. & Ireland 
announced a commitment to be net-
zero by 2040 or sooner, and a new 
partnership with the University of 
Liverpool’s Zero Carbon Research 
Institute. KFC U.K. & Ireland is 
working with the Institute to 
review the carbon footprint of 
its restaurants and how each of 
those restaurants can become net-
zero carbon through sustainable 
design, operations and integration 
of renewable energy. With these 
learnings, the market plans to build 
its first net-zero carbon restaurant 
and develop a scalable playbook 
that can be used across the  
Yum! system.INDUSTRY PARTNERS DEDICATED 
TO CLIMATE ACTION
Dairy Farmers of America  
Set SBT to reduce  
direct and value chain GHG emissions  
by 30% by 2030 
National Chicken Council  
Carbon footprint down 18%  
between 2010 and 2020 
U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef  
Achieve U.S. beef supply chain  
climate neutrality by 2040
Collaboration with climate-forward partners helps us 
to innovate around clean energy and stay accountable. 
These partnerships include organizations such as 
3Degrees who is partnering with Yum! on a global 
study on renewable energy markets in 2022, to identify 
approaches in low-carbon solutions at its restaurants 
worldwide. It also includes other important partners in 
this space such as the Clean Energy Buyers Association, 
U.S. Green Building Council and Guidehouse. 
Beyond contributing toward our SBT, reducing energy 
use, as well as decreasing water consumption and waste 
can reduce expenses for Yum! and our franchisees. 
Yum!’s corporate-owned restaurants serve as testbeds 
for innovation, allowing us to pilot new equipment 
and approaches that can then be introduced across our 
system, such as integrating Internet of Things-based 
solutions into our energy management systems. Our 
tried-and-true green building approaches are captured 
in our Blueline standard and adopted by brand 
requirements to provide franchisees a roadmap for 
reaching their environmental and business goals. 
PLANET
36 37Sustainable Packaging &  
Waste Reduction
Another way we can reduce our environmental footprint 
and mitigate our carbon impact is by reducing the 
volume of materials that go to waste. We do this by 
diverting unused food for donation , recycling cooking 
oil and corrugated board into new products, and 
rethinking our food packaging. Packaging has been a 
significant focus of our efforts over the past year, given 
its importance to our customers and other stakeholders. 
In 2021, we held a Global Leadership meeting with 
leaders from across Yum! and our brands to address 
the importance of sustainable packaging and hear from 
external influencers in the space. 
Historically, our brands have set packaging goals specific 
to the main types of packaging they use and unique 
challenges they face. But we recognize that we can make 
more progress when we work together, across Yum!  
and externally. The policy is grounded in the time-honored wisdom of 
waste reduction: reduce, reuse, then recycle. 
Removing unnecessary packaging 
from our system 
Choosing packaging that is made from 
reusable or renewable materials 
Taking steps to ensure that packaging 
can be recycled once again at the end 
of its life and supporting policies and 
systems to help make this possible 
This policy builds upon Taco Bell and KFC’s existing 
packaging goals, providing a single aspiration for all of 
our brands to work toward by 2025, including moving 
all consumer-facing packaging to be reusable, recyclable 
or compostable. We’ve engaged with our stakeholders, 
including our brands, NGOs, investors and regulators, 
to ensure the policy is comprehensive and inclusive 
of multiple perspectives given the complex nature of 
packaging opportunities at the local, national and global levels. We also continue to work closely with World 
Wildlife Fund (WWF) on this topic, which has helped 
elevate our data collection processes for plastics  
and packaging.
ELIMINATING UNNECESSARY PACKAGING
Less packaging translates to less carbon. As a result, 
we are working to remove substances of concern from 
our packaging, including EPS, which we are on track 
to remove from all of our brands’ products by the end 
of 2022. Taco Bell is in the process of testing a new 
paper wrap suite that will be recyclable and industrial 
compostable, eliminating the need for wax coatings and 
per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances. 
Reduction of plastics is another priority. Plastics in 
consumer-facing packaging have been eliminated 
from Pizza Hut restaurants across Australia, India and 
Sri Lanka. Meanwhile, The Habit has transitioned from 
plastic to-go bags to paper ones in 2022, eliminating 
288,000 pounds of plastic annually. The Habit has set 
new commitments to eliminate plastic from burger  
and sandwich wrappers, which currently contain  
recycled plastic.What do trees have to do with the meal on your plate? More than you might think. Yum!’s supply chain intersects with land use change in numerous ways, which means there are many actions we can take to 
make a difference. We are collaborating with suppliers, NGOs, governments and industry partners and employing innovative technology to address deforestation and related risks. We aspire and support efforts 
to eliminate deforestation from our supply chain by 2025, and remain committed to ending natural forest loss by 2030 in accordance with the NYDF. View our Global Forest Stewardship policy for more details.
HOW OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 
IMPACTS DEFORESTATION
Raising Animals & Their Food
How poultry and livestock are raised is important to their environmental 
impact. We seek to minimize or avoid livestock that are raised and feed 
that is grown in areas of deforestation. We estimate that 98% of our beef 
supply was sourced from regions of lower risk of tropical deforestation in 
2021 with about 80% coming from the U.S. and Canada.
Growing Oil Palm Trees
Conversion of land to grow the trees that produce palm oil can have 
adverse impacts on ecosystems and communities. As a member of the 
RSPO, we are committed to sourcing palm oil used for cooking from 
responsible and sustainable sources and give preference to suppliers that 
are certified by the RSPO. 
Growing Trees For Paper-Based Packaging 
Globally, demand for virgin paper products is a significant driver of 
deforestation. We recognized this issue nearly a decade ago and set our 
first paper-based packaging goal in 2014.HOW WE PROTECT FOREST RESOURCESHOW YUM! IS MAKING A DIFFERENCE FOR FORESTS
Industry Engagement 
As an active member of the New York 
Declaration on Forests, Tropical Forest Alliance, 
and UK Roundtable on Sustainable Soya, Yum! 
and our brands are monitoring legislation 
worldwide and participating in discussions 
about how governments and businesses can 
protect forests. Advanced Technology 
Yum! uses Global Forest Watch Pro, 
a satellite technology, to analyze and 
mitigate deforestation risks across our 
palm oil supply chain.
Supply Chain Mapping
Through a partnership with FAI Farms, in 2021, we 
mapped our sourcing of Brazilian soy for chicken 
feed going to Western Europe. We also recently 
revised our beef and soy supply chain plan, which 
is based on the Accountability Framework initiative. 
Through this plan, we will partner with suppliers to 
reduce deforestation in key landscapes and support 
deforestation-free supply chains.Sourcing Locations
The impact of agriculture is greater when crops or animals 
are grown on freshly deforested or converted land, 
because carbon can no longer be sequestered by trees. 
Many of our suppliers are aligned with Brazil’s Amazon 
Soy Moratorium to avoid purchasing soybeans from areas 
deforested after 2008. In addition, KFC U.K. & Ireland is 
a signatory to the UK Soy Manifesto and together with 
the KFC Western Europe supply chain team, is creating a 
roadmap toward deforestation- and conversion-free soy.Sustainable Packaging 
We are committed to purchasing 
100% of our paper-based packaging 
with fiber from responsibly managed 
forests and recycled sources and are 
exploring sustainable alternative fibers 
like bamboo.
Yum! introduced a   
HARMONIZED  
PACKAGING POLICY.1
2
3
VIEW  NEW POLICY IN  
OUR ESG LIBRARY.PLANET
38 39
Water
Water is connected to nearly all facets of our world and 
our business, which makes understanding location-
specific conditions associated with water increasingly 
important. In nearly every community, there are shared 
water challenges that can impact our supply chain, 
restaurants and neighborhoods. Yum! has a long 
history of working to reduce water consumption. Our 
2025 water goal is to reduce average restaurant water 
consumption by 10% from our 2017 baseline, and 
we have currently achieved 34% of our goal. We also 
continue to focus our efforts on areas of high  
water stress. Every two to three years, we conduct a risk assessment 
using the WRI's Aqueduct tools to determine areas 
at highest water risk. Access to water and water 
quality are both evaluated due to their essentiality 
in restaurant operations and food production. For 
the first time in 2021, we included a portion of our 
supply chain, assessing risks to our beef, poultry, 
dairy and fiber suppliers, and found that 68% of our 
supply chain components have low water risk, and 14% 
are considered moderate risk. The assessment also 
concluded which brands and countries have the highest 
level of water risk. For more information, see our  
CDP Water Security response .SHIFTING TO MORE SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS
As we remove plastics and other compounds from our 
packaging, we are making a transition to materials 
that are either compostable or recyclable. We are also 
exploring ways to use recycled content to help drive a 
more circular model. In many cases, this means using 
paper fibers, which can be recycled and reused many 
times over. It is estimated that 13% of plastic in our 
system is resin types 1 and 2, which are typically highly 
recyclable in many municipalities.
Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill are leading the 
way with over 97% of their paper-based packaging 
originating with fiber from responsibly managed forests 
and recycled sources in 2021. Our brands are committed 
to achieving 100% by the end of 2022, except in China 
where the goal is to be 100% FSC-certified by 2025.
KFC Canada has replaced all plastic straws and bags 
with fiber-based alternatives and, introduced a fully 
compostable bucket in 2021. The market is also 
exploring compostable cutlery made from bamboo, 
corn and sugarcane, which will eliminate 40 million 
pieces of plastic cutlery each year when scaled across the 
restaurant system. All of KFC Canada’s consumer-facing 
packaging will be 100% home compostable by 2025.SUPPORTING BETTER RECOVERY &  
RECYCLING SYSTEMS
Transitioning to recyclable packaging is only one step in 
moving to more sustainable, circular packaging systems. 
For packaging to actually be recycled or composted, 
each municipality must adopt recovery infrastructures 
and consumers must understand how to recycle or 
compost properly. In an effort to help educate consumers 
on recycling Yum! packaging, in 2021 we joined 
How2Recycle, the leading recycling labeling system 
in North America. Using How2Recycle’s standardized 
labeling system, we’re now providing clear and consistent 
instructions on our packaging to enable more and 
better recycling. Yum! is also working with partners in 
the National Restaurant Association and Foodservice 
Packaging Institute to understand emerging legislation 
related to extended producer responsibility. On the 
international stage, Yum! was an active participant in the 
Global Plastics Treaty Dialogues, an activist-to-industry 
series of online summits focused on a global treaty for 
plastics convened by the Ocean Plastics Leadership 
Network (OPLN). Yum! continues to engage with OPLN 
and its member organizations on the challenges and 
solutions that surround plastic waste. 
INVESTING IN CIRCULARITY
Sometimes the best packaging is no packaging at all. 
While quick-service restaurants do not typically offer 
reusable dishware and silverware, we are beginning 
to explore what this might mean for our brands. Pilots 
underway at Taco Bell in California and KFC in France 
will serve as learning labs that will help us determine 
next steps in this area. As members of the NextGen 
Consortium, we are also exploring ways to design 
and commercialize reusable to-go cups. Reusable 
models must consider the full life cycle, including the 
infrastructure, to support this method.GIVING SAUCE PACKETS 
AN EXTRA KICK 
Whether Mild, Hot or Fire, Taco Bell’s sauces help 
make meals that much more delicious. And now, 
sauce packets can continue to do good even when 
the sauce inside is gone. Taco Bell recently renewed 
its partnership with TerraCycle, an international 
recycling leader that collects traditionally 
nonrecyclable items, cleans them, then melts 
and remolds them into hard plastic that can be 
used to make recycled products. Together, we are 
undertaking a pilot to transform these packets and 
give them a second life. 
Since the majority of Taco Bell transactions currently 
take place at the drive-thru and most consumers 
eat their meal out-of-restaurant, U.S. customers 
can use a prepaid label to mail their empty sauce 
packets to TerraCycle. We’ve introduced the program 
to consumers through our app, website, emails 
and in-store signage. We completed a pilot with 
John Tomasulo, a New Jersey-based franchisee, 
to increase awareness even further. We placed 
collection boxes at several of his Taco Bell restaurants 
and over 100 locations in the surrounding 
community, with the goal of determining whether 
recycling access increases participation in the 
program and sales for the restaurants. Packets 
collected through this local pilot will be recycled  
into picnic tables for local parks and the Trenton  
Thunder Ballpark.
“In this day and age, everyone’s 
concerned about sustainability and  
the environment,” Tomasulo says.  
“This is a small way we can  
participate in that cause.” PLANET
OVERALL WATER RISK
LOW
(0–1)LOW-MEDIUM
(1–2)MEDIUM-HIGH
(2–3)HIGH
(3–4)EXTREMELY HIGH
(4–5)
No dataSource: WRI Aqueduct, accessed on 3/2022. Aqueduct.wri.org
PEOPLE 2021 Performance Summary
41
41Advance our social 
purpose to fight 
inequality globally, 
support initiatives related 
to hunger relief, literacy 
and youth education, act 
as a strong community 
partner in our hometown 
headquarters and support 
employees and restaurant 
workers during times of 
disaster Donate food, funds, time and talent to help local and global 
communities.• Our global organization donated $58 million  in 2021, supporting brand efforts such as KFC Foundation charitable assistance 
programs, Pizza Hut’s BOOK IT! Program and the Taco Bell Foundation’s Live Más Scholarship and Community Grants program.
• We also donated 4.3 million  pounds of food through our Harvest program in 2021.
Fight inequality through our Unlocking Opportunities Initiative 
(UOI) by investing $100 million over five years for employees 
and communities around the world.• Approved over $50 million  in funding to almost 30  social impact programs across nine countries through our  
Unlocking Opportunity Initiative to fight inequality inside and outside Yum! through entrepreneurship, education  
and equity and inclusion.Social Purpose &  
Community ImpactGoal Status
Create a culture of 
engagement that attracts, 
retains and grows the 
best people and creates 
high performance in  
our restaurantsMeasure our employee engagement.In 2021, Yum! conducted our bi-annual employee engagement survey with all corporate employees that revealed an engagement 
level of 88%, well above industry benchmarks.
Provide system employees with training and development that 
builds world-class leaders and business results.Above-restaurant employees participated in almost 14,000 training instances in 2021 including Leading with Heart, our leadership 
development program, and Inclusive Leadership, our unconscious bias program, as well as our compliance policies. At the restaurant 
level, nearly 6 million hours of operational training were completed.Culture & 
Talent
Hold our employees, 
franchisees and suppliers 
to the highest standards 
of professional and 
ethical conductRemain committed to our Global Code of Conduct and 
Supplier Code of Conduct, which addresses guidelines 
for working conditions consistent with frameworks such 
as those of the International Labour Organization and the 
United Nations Guiding Principles on Human Rights.• Published updated version of Yum!’s Human Rights & Supply Chain policy.
• Through Yum!’s membership with Sedex, a leading ethical trade membership organization that works with businesses to 
improve working conditions in global supply chains, 6,000  core category supplier sites were pre-screened for indicators of 
inherent responsible sourcing risk.
• Developing strategic implementation plan to drive adoption of responsible sourcing assessment processes and supplier 
engagement tools.
• Over 18,000  corporate employees received training on the Global Code of Conduct.Ethics &  
Human RightsBuild an inclusive culture 
among our employees, 
franchisees, suppliers 
and partners to reflect the 
diversity of our customers 
and communitiesContinue building upon ongoing inclusion efforts to help create 
workplace environments where all people can be successful.• We continued expanding Employee Resource Groups across corporate campuses globally and hosted regular webcasts to 
facilitate dialogue and awareness on how to build an inclusive culture. 
• In 2021, Yum! conducted an equity, inclusion and belonging assessment for above-restaurant leaders across all brands in the U.S. 
Significantly increase the number of women in senior leadership 
globally and achieve gender parity in leadership globally by 
2030 in alignment with Paradigm for Parity®.In 2021, 42% of global corporate leadership roles were held by women, and about 51% of our global  
workforce was comprised of women.
Significantly increase diverse representation of 
people of color in the U.S. among  
corporate employees.• In 2021, we continued our partnership with CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion and the Hispanic Promise. 
• In 2021, we joined the OneTen coalition, a group of U.S. businesses leading a bold initiative to create career mobility and 
advancement opportunities for 1 million  Black individuals in the U.S. over the next 10 years.
Continue rolling out Inclusive Leadership training training across 
our system including company-owned and franchise restaurants.• Continued expanding our Inclusive Leadership training to employees and franchisees around the world, part of our broader 
companywide training program efforts where nearly 14,000  above-restaurant employees participated holistically in 2021.
• Started to develop an online module of the program to help provide more access to the curriculum.Equity, Inclusion & BelongingFOOD 2021 Performance Summary
Goal Status
Maintain the safest, 
highest-quality food 
supply and preparation in 
the industryThrough food safety audits, we provide restaurant team member 
training on employee health, product handling, ingredient and product 
management and prevention of cross-contamination.Since 2016, Yum! has conducted more than  578,400  restaurant food safety audits.
Build on Yum! supplier audit track record and assess 100%  of Tier 1 
suppliers annually by 2021.In 2021, 80%  of Yum! Tier 1 suppliers required a food safety audit, of which 99%  were audited and achieved on  
98%  performance.Food Safety
Be the preferred 
restaurant for consumers 
seeking delicious, 
balanced options by 
offering more choice and 
nutritional improvements 
to our foodOffer lower-calorie menu options across main dishes, combos and sides, 
consistent with Yum!’s global nutrition standards that align with the World 
Health Organization and the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, to continue 
to improve our food’s nutrition. By 2030, we intend to represent 50% of 
menu food offerings to be consistent with Yum! global nutrition criteria for 
meal options.Together, the brands reported that they are 64% on the way to meeting the goal.
Provide consumers with convenient access to food information regarding 
menu labeling and allergens.Continue publishing online nutrition calculators for the brands’ U.S. menus and providing consumers with convenient 
access to allergen and nutrition information. Details can be accessed online:
KFC , Pizza Hut , Taco Bell , The Habit Burger Grill
Offer plant-forward product innovations to meet  
the lifestyle choices of consumers.• Taco Bell’s vegetarian offerings represent more than 12%  of sales. The brand offers over 30  vegetarian ingredients 
on its menu which can be combined for nearly 1 million  combinations. 
• Increased plant-based protein options including in Pizza Hut’s markets globally. Plant-based cheeses have also been 
introduced in Portugal, Spain and the U.K. at Pizza Hut.
• The Habit Burger Grill launched two new Impossible Burgers.
Continue clean label efforts to remove artificial colors, artificial flavors and 
partially hydrogenated oils from core food ingredients globally by 2025.• Removed 94%  of artificial coloring
• Removed 86%  of artificial flavors
• Removed 95%  of PHOsBalanced Choices
Be a good steward of the 
animals raised for food 
throughout our  
supply chainContinue engaging with beef, dairy and poultry suppliers to gather robust 
data on animal welfare and sustainable production systems as well as to 
educate them on the Five Freedoms and our Sustainable Animal Protein 
Principles.• KFC introduced new global chicken key welfare indicators (KWIs) as a critical step on its animal welfare journey.
• Taco Bell continues to source 100%  cage-free eggs for all menu items and ingredients in the U.S. and Canada. 
Taco Bell will reduce use of antibiotics important to human medicine in its 
U.S. and Canada beef supply chain by 25% by 2025, while Pizza Hut U.S. 
will remove them in chicken used for wings by 2022.• KFC, Pizza Hut (chicken for its pizzas) and Taco Bell in the U.S. have met public commitments to remove antibiotics 
important to human medicine from our U.S. poultry supply. 
• In 2019, Taco Bell published a Beef Policy and has since made progress with approximately 15%  of its raw beef supply 
being procured from reduced antibiotic sources.
• Pizza Hut U.S. is working toward removing antibiotics from chicken used for wings and expects to meet its goal by 2022.Raised  
Responsibly
Promote transparency 
about our food through 
responsible labeling and 
advertising practices in our 
restaurants and beyondLimit marketing communications to children under 12. We follow U.S. and international guidelines to limit marketing to children.Responsible  
MarketingGRI INDEX43
 42
PLANET 2021 Performance Summary
Engage in building a 
responsible supply chain 
that protects forests, 
respects human rights, 
supports sustainable 
sourcing and enables 
good stewardshipIn line with our approved SBTs, cut GHG emissions generated by: 
suppliers (Scope 3) 46% below 2019 levels by 2030 on per-metric 
ton basis of beef, poultry, dairy and packaging procured.• In 2021, we joined the Supplier Leadership on Climate Transition (Supplier LoCT), a consortium of multinational companies 
created to accelerate action throughout the supply chain in the march toward net-zero GHG emissions. Currently, 56%  of our 
suppliers of beef, poultry and dairy in the U.S. and Canada already have climate targets in place or are part of the Supplier LoCT 
program.
• In the U.S., Pizza Hut is partnering with the Dairy Farmers of America (DFA), and dairy suppliers on a joint dairy project to 
provide participating farmers with technology and data needed to help reduce GHG emissions.
Endorsed the New York Declaration on Forests and the private 
sector goal of eliminating deforestation from the production of 
agriculture commodities such as palm oil, soy, paper and beef 
products  no later than 2020 and striving to end natural forest loss 
by 2030. As part of this work, we will purchase 100% of our paper-
based packaging with fiber from responsibly managed forests and 
recycled sources by the end of 2022.• In 2021, an estimated 74% of fiber came from certified forests or recycled sources. Taco Bell has reached 98% .
• In 2021, 100% of palm oil used for cooking supported the production of sustainable palm oil and deforestation-free  
supply chains. 
• We estimate that 98%  of our beef supply was sourced from regions of lower risk of tropical deforestation in 2021  
with about 80%  coming from the U.S. and Canada.
• Disclose progress to CDP Forests on palm oil, soy, paper and beef.
Building on KFC and Taco Bell’s existing goals, Yum! established an 
elevated and harmonized cross-brand packaging policy that covers 
four focus areas: eliminating unnecessary packaging, shifting 
materials, supporting better recovery and recycling systems, and 
investing in circularity. • Expanded polystyrene, of which Styrofoam is a component, makes up of under 1%  of the reported plastic used by our system.
• As we currently understand data submitted by suppliers, an estimated 16%  of resins come from recycled sources comprised of 
14%  pre-consumer and 2%  post-consumer. 
• Approximately 13%  of plastic used by our system is currently estimated to be commonly recyclable (defined as resin  
types 1 and 2).Supply ChainGoal Status
Design, build and 
operate restaurants to 
be measurably more 
sustainable using green 
building standards 
to drive reductions in 
energy consumption, 
water use, greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions and 
wasteIn line with our approved science-based targets (SBTs), cut GHG 
emissions generated by:
• Company restaurants and offices (Scope 1 and 2) 46% below 
2019 levels by 2030.
• Franchisee restaurants (Scope 3) 46% below 2019 levels by 
2030 on a per-restaurant basis for franchisees.• Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions for buildings have decreased approximately 24% , on an absolute basis, as compared to our 
baseline year 2019. Franchisee emissions, measured on an intensity basis, have decreased approximately 20% .
Use renewable electricity to power 1,000 restaurants  
and our corporate  offices in the U.S.• Yum!’s offices in the U.S. have been using 100%  by renewable electricity since 2020 through the use of Renewable Energy 
Certificates (RECs) and a power purchase agreement (PPA).
• In 2022, we moved 1,000  of our restaurants to renewable electricity by purchasing RECs equivalent to the restaurants’ 
estimated energy consumption.
• We have implemented onsite solar in Australia where 43  company-owned KFC restaurants are partially powered by rooftop 
photovoltaic systems. Collins Foods, a Yum! franchisee, had seven systems in 2021 and committed to adding over 100  systems 
over the next year.
Reduce average restaurant water withdrawals by 10%, from 2017,  
by the end of 2025.• We have currently reached 20%  of our goal to reduce water withdrawals on a per-restaurant basis.
• We completed a water risk assessment using the World Resources Institute's Aqueduct tools to determine areas at highest water 
risk. For the first time in 2021, we included a portion of our supply chain, assessing risks to our beef, poultry, dairy and fiber 
suppliers and found that 68%  of our supply chain components have low water risk, and 14%  are considered moderate risk.
Divert 50% of back-of-house operational waste, measured by 
weight, generated in our U.S. restaurants by the end of 2025.• In 2021, we estimated that 983,629  tons of waste was removed from our U.S. restaurants, and we diverted an estimated 19%  
of that material.
• Taco Bell will add recycling and/or composting bins to restaurants where infrastructure permits.
Reduce food loss waste by 50 % by 2030 in accordance with U.S. 
Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions.• Yum! and our franchisees donated 4.3 million  pounds of food in 2021, with 28 countries participating.Green BuildingsGRI Standards
Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
Organizational profile 
102-1 Name of the organization Yum! Inc.
2021 Form 10-K, Cover Page
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Yum! does not intentionally sell items that are banned in individual markets.
2021 Form 10-K, pg. 3
102-3 Location of headquarters Louisville, Kentucky
2021 Form 10-K, Cover Page
102-4 Location of operations As of December 31, 2021, there were 53,424 restaurants in 157 countries and territories, 98% of which were franchised.
2021 Form 10-K, pg. 3
102-5 Ownership and legal form Publicly traded company
2021 Form 10-K, Cover Page
102-6 Markets served As of December 31, 2021, there were 53,424 restaurants in 157 countries and territories, 98% of which were franchised.
2021 Form 10-K, pg. 3
102-7 Scale of the organization Total Number of Employees: 2021 Form 10-K, pg. 7
Total Number of Operations: 2021 Form 10-K, pg. 3
Net Revenues: 2021 Form 10-K, pg. 31
Quality of Products or Services Provided: 2021 Form 10-K, pgs. 3-7
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Workforce Diversity Report  
Total Number of Employees: 2021 Form 10-K, pg. 7
102-9 Supply chain Supplier Engagement & Due Diligence
2021 Form 10-K, pg. 6
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chainNone
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Yum! does not have an official policy as it pertains to the precautionary principle, but we do assess risks across our organization.
Approach
2021 Form 10-K, pgs. 9-24
102-12 External initiatives Approach > Stakeholder Engagement
102-13 Membership of associations Approach > Stakeholder EngagementThe 2021 Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report is prepared according to Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards Core option. GRI is the most widely recognized  
framework for sustainability reporting.
GRI INDEX GRI INDEX
44 45Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Introduction > A Message from David Gibbs
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities CDP Climate Change , 2022 Response
CDP Water Security, 2022 Response
CDP Forests, 2022 Response
Ethics & Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 
behavior Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Approach > Corporate Governance 
2022 Proxy Statement, pgs. 7-27
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Approach > Stakeholder Engagement 
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements As of December 31, 2021, approximately 15% of employees reported to be represented by an independent trade union or covered by collective bargaining 
agreements.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Approach > Stakeholder Engagement
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Approach > Stakeholder Engagement
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Approach > Stakeholder Engagement
Reporting Practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements 2021 Form 10-K, pg. 3
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Approach > Materiality
102-47 List of material topics Approach > Materiality
102-48 Restatements of information Yum! has no restatements of information in this reporting cycle.
102-49 Changes in reporting Approach > Materiality
102-50 Reporting period About this Report
102-51 Date of most recent report July 2022
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Please send comments or questions about this report to citizenship@yum.com.
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
StandardsApproach > Reporting & Disclosure
102-55 GRI content index 2021 GRI Content Index
102-56 External assurance Our GHG Emissions and Water Withdrawal for the year ending December 31, 2021 has been verified by an independent third-party accountant to be presented in 
accordance with the WRI/ WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition for Scope 1 and 3 and the WRI/WBCSD 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Guidance; an amendment to the GHG protocol Corporate Standard and the Water Withdrawal using attestation standards established 
by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). We do not currently seek external assurance for our report .
GRI 200: ECONOMIC
GRI 201: Economic Performance 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2021 Form 10-K
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2021 Form 10-K, pg. 54
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeCDP Climate Change , 2022 Response
CDP Water Security, 2022 Response
CDP Forests, 2022 Response
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) report
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Yum!’s success is built on the integrity and high ethical standards of our employees. Our Global Code of Conduct is the foundation for the way that we conduct 
ourselves and do business throughout the world. Every year, our board of directors and Yum!’s 2,000 most senior employees must certify in writing that they have read 
and understand the code and compile a conflicts of interest questionnaire. The code is available online in seven languages.
People > Ethics & Human Rights
Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 
takenThere were no confirmed incidents of corruption during 2021.
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Global Code of Conduct
2021 Form 10-K, pg. 7
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-
trust and monopoly practicesNo legal actions were taken for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust or monopoly practices during 2021.GRI INDEX GRI INDEX
46 47
Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 301: Materials
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Yum!’s sustainable sourcing policies seek to encourage the production of sustainable raw materials that support the environment and the communities that supply 
them. Our company is focused on eliminating deforestation in our global supply chains through key commodities of palm oil, paper, beef and soy, as well as 
encouraging the more responsible use and production of plastics to benefit the planet.
Approach > Citizenship & Sustainability Goals 
Planet > Climate Action > Supply Chain; Sustainable Packaging and Waste Reduction 
CDP Forests 2021 Response
Global Forest Stewardship Policy
Palm Oil Policy
Paper-based Packaging Sourcing Policy
Sustainable Packaging Policy103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
301-2 Recycled input materials used As part of our approach to sustainable materials, we encourage the use of recycled sources of material in packaging and servicewares as feasible and as allowed by 
local regulations. Most of these are either fiber or plastic-based and a directional estimate of used recycled input materials is provided below for each category. We 
collect this data as part of our annual sustainability survey and will continue to refine our data collection process. 
Fiber from recycled sources: 35% 
Plastic resins from recycled sources: 16%
Planet > Sustainable Packaging and Waste Reduction
GRI 302: Energy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Approach > Citizenship & Sustainability Goals 
Planet > Climate Action 
CDP Climate Change 2022 Response
Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal 103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachDisclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Consumption from 
Renewable Sources Consumption from Non-
Renewable Sources Total Consumption 
Consumption of Fuel (MWh) 0 171,820 171,820 
Consumption of purchased or acquired electricity (MWh) 109,953 164,831 274,784
Consumption of purchased or acquired heat (MWh) 0 146 146 
Consumption of purchased or acquired steam (MWh) 0 0 0 
Consumption of purchased or acquired cooling (MWh) 0 0 0 
Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy (MWh) 511 0 511 
Total energy consumption (MWh) 110,464 336,797 4 47, 261 
Total energy consumption (GJ) 397,670 1,212,469 1,610,139 
Total percentage of renewable energy vs. non-renewable energy 25% 75%
Renewable sources include PPA/ RECs, solar installations and estimations from grid renewables. For information regarding standards, 
methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Climate Change 2022 Response.
Total energy consumption by country within the organization is as follows:
Consumption of Electricity Consumption of Fuel Total Energy Consumption
Country MWh MWh MWh
Australia 21,327 2,024 23,351 
Canada 615 291 906 
France 102 20 122 
Germany 106 0 106 
India 5,972 3,331 9,303 
Italy 78 37 115 
Netherlands 220 104 324 
Russian Federation 21,906 661 22,567 
Singapore 246 0 246 
South Africa 14,461 910 15,371 
Spain 103 48 151 
Thailand 78 0 78 
United Arab Emirates 233 110 343 
United Kingdom 24,901 3,988 28,889 
United States 184,819 160,381 345,200 
Vietnam 128 61 189 
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Total energy consumption for franchise restaurants is estimated to be 46,925,503 GJ. For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and 
calculations, refer to our CDP Climate Change 2022 Response.GRI INDEX GRI INDEX
48 49
Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
302-3 Energy intensity Based on the total energy consumed for company-owned and franchise restaurants (including company offices), the energy intensity ratio is 923.5 GJ/restaurant. This 
includes all types of energy that we use.
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption The anticipated annual quantity of reductions in energy consumption that will be achieved as a result of conservation and efficiency measures are 1,109,426 GJ. 
This includes company-owned and franchise restaurants and includes all types of energy that we use. This estimation does not include materialized savings realized 
from activities contributing to savings from prior years. For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Climate 
Change 2022 Response.
GRI 303: Water & Effluents
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Approach > Citizenship & Sustainability Goals 
Planet > Water
CDP Water Security 2022 Response
Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Planet > Water
CDP Water Security 2022 Response
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts CDP Water Security 2022 Response
303-3 Water withdrawal Total company withdrawals for the reporting year are estimated to be 2,434.77 ML. This includes withdrawals by the Habit Burger for the first time as well as corporate 
offices. All material withdrawals are from freshwater, third-party systems. Total water withdrawal for company locations located in water-stressed areas, as defined by 
WRI Aqueduct, is estimated to be 495.6 ML. For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Water Security  
2022 Response.
303-4 Water discharge Total company discharges for company locations for the reporting year are estimated to be 2,069.66 ML. Material discharges to third-party water systems are 
estimated to be 1,217.4 ML and discharges to groundwater are 852.16 ML. Total water discharges for company locations located in water-stressed areas, as defined by 
WRI Aqueduct, are estimated to be 247.8 ML to third-party water systems and 173.4 ML to groundwater. Groundwater discharges are for irrigation. Discharges
are fresh water. We seek to follow all local laws and regulations for frequency of monitoring, should it be required. Restaurants are designed to produce discharges of 
an acceptable quality for treatment by municipal facilities. Municipalities test discharge according to their regulations. Adherence to local laws is typically controlled 
by regulatory permits. The organization was not subject to any material penalties relating to wastewater regulations in the reporting year. For information regarding 
standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Water Security 2022 Response.
303-5 Water consumption Total company water consumption for the reporting year is estimated to be 365.21 ML. Total consumption for company locations in water-stressed areas, as defined by 
WRI Aqueduct, is estimated to be 74.3 ML. For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Water Security  
2022 Response.
GRI 305: Emissions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Approach > Citizenship & Sustainability Goals 
Planet > Climate Action
CDP Climate Change 2022 Response 103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachDisclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Gross Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions: 39,012.56 MT CO2e (location based), CDP Climate Change 2022 Response 
GHG emissions include four of the seven greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and 
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Perfluorocarbons (PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions are not included in our reporting, as we do 
not use coolants that generate these greenhouse gases. Biogenic carbon is not relevant to our Scope 1 GHG emissions. Source emission factors can be viewed in our 
Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal . For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP 
Climate Change 2022 Response.
Location Based Scope 1 emissions by country are as follows (mtCO²e):
Country Scope 1
Australia 894.20
Canada 156.23
France 186.94
Germany 118.66
India 841.88
Italy 50.26
Netherlands 63.72
Russian Federation 682.61
Singapore 104.05
South Africa 1,267 .34
Spain 112.74
Thailand 4.78
United Arab Emirates 123.84
United Kingdom 2,424.20
United States 31,866.20
Vietnam 114.91GRI INDEX GRI INDEX
50 51
Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
305-4 GHG emissions intensity GHG emissions intensity, metric 1: 0.000070 MT CO2e per unit total company sales for Scope 1 and 2 emissions  
GHG emissions intensity, metric 2: 132 MT CO2e per restaurant (based on average restaurant count for the reporting year) Scope 1 and 2 emissions, including office 
support emissions (market based) 
For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Climate Change 2022 Response.
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions The anticipated annual quantity of reductions in GHG emissions that will be achieved as a result of conservation and efficiency measures implemented during the 
reporting year was 976,228 MT CO2e. This includes equity and franchise restaurants and includes all resulting gases. This estimate does not include materialized 
savings realized from activities contributing to savings from prior years. For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to 
our CDP Climate Change 2022 Response.
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) We do not produce ozone depleting substances (ODS). However, we do use refrigeration and air conditioning that contains ODS, and as while the equipment is 
operating according to manufacturer specifications, small amounts of leakage does occur. We estimate the following:
• Scope 1 HFC: 4,871.56 MT
• Scope 2 HFC: not applicable
• Scope 3 HFC (franchise restaurants): 449,443.00 MT
Source emission factors can be viewed in our Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal .
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and 
other significant air emissionsThe release of nitrous oxide and methane are calculated and included in our total MT CO2e calculations. The mass of these gases are estimated to be as follows:
• Scope 1 CH4: 0.63 MT
• Scope 2 CH4: 6.99 MT
• Scope 3 CH4: 180.75 MT
• Scope 1 N2O: 0.07 MT
• Scope 2 N2O: 1.52 MT
• Scope 3 N2O: 57.03 MT
Perfluorocarbons (PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions is not included in our reporting, as we do not knowingly generate 
material quantities of these greenhouse gases. Source emission factors can be viewed in our Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal.
GRI 306: Waste
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Approach > Citizenship & Sustainability Goals 
Planet > Sustainable Packaging and Waste Reduction
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related 
impactsPlanet > Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Planet > Sustainable Packaging & Waste ReductionDisclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Gross Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: 117,621.18 MT CO2e (location based), CDP Climate Change 2022 Response
Gross Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions: 112,665.22 MT CO2e (market based), CDP Climate Change 2022 Response
GHG emissions include four of the seven greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and 
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Per the GHG Protocol, biogenic emissions are omitted since grid factors are used. Source emission factors can be viewed in our Statement 
of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal. For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Climate 
Change 2022 Response. 
Scope 2 emissions by country are as follows (mtCO²e):
Country Scope 2 (location based) Scope 2 (market based)
Australia 14, 317.0 4 14, 317.0 4
Canada 79.85 79.85
France 5.50 5.98
Germany 36.68 62.37
India 4,336.28 4,336.28
Italy 22.36 35.84
Netherlands 81.23 99.33
Russian Federation 8, 227.89 8, 227.89
Singapore 95.12 95.12
South Africa 13,544.24 13,544.24
Spain 20.42 29.37
Thailand 36.27 36.27
United Arab Emirates 117.89 117.89
United Kingdom 5,239.19 7,8 6 8.75
United States 71, 377.61 63,725.39
Vietnam 83.61 83.61
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions:35,035,897.53 MT CO2e (market based), CDP Climate Change 2022 Response
This total is comprised of the applicable category totals as follows:
• Purchased Goods and Services (Food, Cooking Oil, Plastic Service Wares, Fiber-Based Packaging):  26,605,773.46 MT CO2e
• Franchisees (Buildings Scope 1 and 2, market based): 6,887,461.16 MT CO2e
• Upstream Transportation and Distribution:  218,554.47 MT CO2e
• Waste Generated in Operations: 774,515.56 MT CO2e
• Downstream Transportation and Distribution: 544,413.78 MT CO2e
• End of Life Treatment of Sold Products: 2,456.50 MT CO2e
• Business Travel:  2,422.60 MT CO2e
GHG emissions include four of the seven greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O) and 
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Perfluorocarbons (PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) emissions have been omitted from our reporting, as we 
do not generate material quantities of these greenhouse gases. Biogenic emissions, included in the totals above, resulting from Waste Generated in Operations and 
End of Life Treatment, are estimated at 63,688 MT CO2e. Source emission factors can be viewed in our Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Water Withdrawal. 
For information regarding standards, methodologies, assumptions and calculations, refer to our CDP Climate Change 2022 Response.GRI INDEX GRI INDEX
52 53
Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 
not provided to temporary or part-time employeesYum! and our franchisees offer restaurant employees a range of medical benefits, childcare discounts, educational scholarships and tuition reimbursement, and gym 
discounts, as well as training and development opportunities. Our corporate above-restaurant employees benefit from a total rewards package that includes wellness 
programs, flexible working hours, a generous 401(k) match and more. Most of the employee programs and benefits are applicable in the U.S. Internationally, benefits 
are tailored by market and role.
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Yum! is committed to maintaining a work environment that respects and supports human rights around the world. Our ethics and compliance program, based on our 
Global Code of Conduct, demands the highest ethical standards in all of our operations globally. This policy applies to all directors, officers and employees of Yum!, 
as well as to our international agents, consultants, joint venture partners and any other third-party representatives acting on our behalf. We respect the right of all 
employees to associate or not to associate with any group, as permitted by applicable laws and regulations. We require compliance with all local labor laws in every 
market where we operate. We have and will continue to partner with various stakeholders to collect input and help guide our human rights efforts.
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Policy 
Global Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 
changes We require our franchisees to fully comply with applicable national and/or local legal requirements for minimum notice periods regarding significant operational 
changes.
GRI 403: Occupational Health & Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary It is Yum!’s policy to maintain a professional, safe work environment. Suppliers are also expected to provide their employees with safe and healthy working conditions.
Food > Food Safety 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
403-1 Occupational health and safety management 
systemFood > Food Safety 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 
incident investigationFood > Food Safety 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22  
403-3 Occupational health services Food > Food Safety 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health and safetyFood > Food Safety 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Food > Food Safety 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 
403-6 Promotion of worker health People > Employee Wellbeing 
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationships Food > Food Safety 
Global Code of Conduct , pg. 22 
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management systemAll company restaurants are governed by safety standards and employees undertake training on those standards.Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
306-3 Waste generated The collection of data regarding waste is challenging, and estimates provided are based on sample data submitted by the Australia, Canada, France, India, Japan, 
Mexico, Taiwan, Thailand, United Kingdom, and United States business units and extrapolated, on a per-restaurant average basis, to provide a global view. The total 
weight of nonhazardous waste removed from restaurants, both company-owned and franchised, is an estimated 2,530,710 MT. We do not generate material quantities 
of hazardous waste. It does not account for products and packaging intended for consumer consumption outside of the restaurants. Although there is variation between 
brands and geographic localities, our analysis yields the following order of magnitude divisions, based on percentages, of generated waste from within restaurants. 
Variations in totals are expected year-over-year as refinement of methodology occurs.
• Organic waste: 1,012,284 MT  (40%)
• Corrugated cardboard: 379,607 MT (15%) 
• Paper packaging and other paper: 379,607 MT (15%)
• Mixed plastics: 379,607 MT (15%)
• Used cooking oil: 253,071 MT (10%)
• Other: 126,636 MT (5%)
Planet > Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal The collection of data regarding waste diverted from disposal is challenging, and estimates are limited to data samples submitted by the Australia, Canada, France, 
India, Japan, Mexico, Taiwan, Thailand, United Kingdom, and United States business units. This data has not been extrapolated due to the extreme variation in global 
diversion infrastructure. The total weight of non-hazardous waste diverted in those markets is estimated to be 284,767 MT with a total diversion rate of about 21%. 
This does not include diverted waste from other markets, although it is known to occur. We do not generate material quantities of hazardous waste. It does not account 
for products and packaging intended for consumer consumption outside of the restaurants. The recovery options include the following:
• Recycling: 254,271 MT
• Biofuel and/or animal feed: 31,898 MT
• Food donation (in markets listed above): 1,598 MT
Planet > Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Planet > Climate > Supply Chain 
Yum! Global Forest Stewardship Policy
Yum! Palm Oil Policy
Yum! Paper-based Packaging Sourcing Policy
CDP Forests, 2022 Response103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 
chain and actions takenPlanet > Forest Stewardship, pg. 36
CDP Forests, 2022 Response
GRI 400: SOCIAL
GRI 401: Employment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People, pgs. 15-23
Food > Food Safety, pg. 26
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachGRI INDEX GRI INDEX
54 55
Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
GRI 404: Training & Education
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary We sustain our winning culture by recruiting the best people and developing their potential. No matter where employees are within our organization or in their 
careers, continuing development is an important focus. We are proud to help restaurant employees develop skills and capabilities on the job, further their education 
and build successful careers. In addition to providing corporate employees with robust development plans, programs and learning platforms, we invest in them by 
providing meaningful roles and challenging opportunities.
People > Unlocking Opportunity 103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programsPeople > Unlocking Opportunity 
GRI 405: Diversity & Equal Opportunity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Citizenship > Corporate Governance > Board Diversity, pg. 9
People > Equity, Inclusion & Belonging, Social Purpose, pgs. 17-20
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employeesGender Percent Female Percent Male
Board of Directors 42% 58%
Executive   36% 64%
Leadership 42% 48%
Management (Restaurant and Above>Restaurant) 47% 52%
Non>Management (Above Restaurant) 56% 44%
Non>Management (Restaurant) 51% 39%
Sums may be less than 100% due to employee populations not reporting
Age Group Percent Under 30 Percent 30>50 Percent over 50
Board of Directors 0% 0% 100%
Total Employees 59% 32% 9%
Above Restaurant 15% 67% 17%
Restaurant 66% 27% 7%
Sums may be less than 100% due to employee populations not reporting
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 
to menAt Yum!, we are committed to paying our employees fairly and equitably. Our pay practices are grounded in market-competitive and performance-based principles 
to attract, retain and reward world-class talent. We leverage tools and processes to establish equitable pay decisions, including salary ranges and bonus targets by 
level, objective performance goals and ratings, and clear guidelines for merit increases, bonuses and long-term incentives tied to performance. In the U.S., where 
a significant portion of our population resides, we run an annual statistical regression analysis to establish that pay disparities by gender and ethnicity do not exist. 
Taking into account all job- and performance-related factors used in making pay decisions, the analysis finds we do not have any statistically significant variances in pay 
for any gender or ethnic group. We are committed to continuing to review and refine our practices and processes to establish we are rewarding our employees fairly.Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
GRI 407: Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary We respect the right of all employees to associate or not to associate with any group as permitted by applicable laws and regulations. Suppliers must respect the rights 
of workers to associate, organize and bargain collectively in a lawful and peaceful manner without penalty or interference.
Yum! Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy
Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining 
may be at riskEmployees and suppliers who have any concerns can report those concerns to our independent, third-party system called the “Speak Up Helpline”.
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Fair employment practices do more than keep Yum! in compliance with applicable labor and employment laws. They help us attract and retain the best talent for our 
workforce. Yum! is committed to not using forced or compulsory labor. Suppliers are also required to follow this policy.
People > Ethics & Human Rights 
Yum! Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy
Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory laborFair employment practices do more than keep Yum! in compliance with applicable labor and employment laws. They help us attract and retain the best talent for our 
workforce. Yum! is committed to not using forced or compulsory labor. Suppliers are also required to follow this policy. We do not view our company operations as 
having significant risk for incidents related to not following this policy.
People >Ethics & Human Rights 
Yum! Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy
Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People > Ethics & Human Rights 
Yum! Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy
Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 
proceduresThe total number of hours devoted to training and communications on issues relating to human rights and the treatment of individuals by Yum! was estimated to be 
approximately 65,000 in the reporting year. Employees, franchisees and suppliers participated.GRI INDEX GRI INDEX
56 57
Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
GRI 413: Local Communities
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People > Brand Community Impact
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
413-1 Employee training on human rights policies or 
proceduresPeople > Brand Community Impact
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People > Ethics & Human Rights 
Food > Food Safety 
Yum! Human Rights & Key Supply Chain Commitments Policy
Yum! Human Rights & Labor Practices Policy
Global Code of Conduct
Supplier Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 
criteriaOur first priority is to maintain an industry-leading, safe, high-quality food supply from farm to fork. Our vision is to deliver to society “Trust in Every Bite.” To achieve 
this, we have strong food safety management systems in place to evaluate each step of the supply chain. We utilize internationally recognized industry standards and 
Yum! food safety standards in tandem. These standards address areas where key risk factors exist, such as employee health and hygiene, product handling, product 
temperature management, cross-contamination and more. Since 2016, Yum! has conducted more than 578,400 restaurant food safety audits. In 2021, 80% of Yum! 
Tier 1 suppliers required a food safety audit, of which 99% were audited and achieved on 98% performance.
GRI 415: Public Policy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary We believe that it is important to discuss policies that may impact our business operations, franchisees, industry and stakeholders. We adhere to all applicable laws that 
govern our interactions with public officials as well as our own Code of Conduct.
Global Code of Conduct
Political Contributions & U.S. Government Advocacy Policy 103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
415-1 Political Contributions We believe that it is important to openly discuss policies that may impact our business operations, franchisees, industry and stakeholders. We adhere to all applicable 
laws that govern our interactions with public officials as well as our own Code of Conduct. Direct political contributions made by our PAC (January 1 - December 31, 
2021) totaled $34,500. For detailed information regarding the contributions, please visit the Federal Election Commission website.Disclosure 
NumberDisclosure Title Response
GRI 416: Customer Health & Safety 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Food
103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 
product and service categoriesOur first priority is to maintain an industry-leading, safe, high-quality food supply from farm to fork. Our vision is to deliver to society “Trust in Every Bite.” To achieve 
this, we have strong food safety management systems in place to evaluate each step of the supply chain. We utilize internationally recognized industry standards and 
Yum! food safety standards in tandem. These standards address areas where key risk factors exist, such as employee health and hygiene, product handling, product 
temperature management, cross-contamination and more. Since 2016, Yum! has conducted more than 578,400 restaurant food safety audits. In 2021, 80% of Yum! 
Tier 1 suppliers required a food safety audit, of which 99% were audited and achieved on 98% performance.
GRI 417: Marketing & Labeling
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Yum! is committed to following all laws and providing guests with accurate information. Customers rely on that information to make decisions on where to dine as well 
as to make menu selections. Promoting transparency about our food empowers the customer to make personal choices. We follow U.S. and international guidelines to 
avoid marketing to children and are committed to our goal of limiting marketing communication to children under 12. 103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 
communicationsIn 2021, there were two incidences of non-compliance concerning marketing communications at KFC resulting in a warning. They did not result in a fine.
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Yum! understands that in today’s digital environment, customer and employee privacy is important and we are committed to treating personal information with care. 
We invest significantly in tools, systems and people to help keep information secure as threats continue to evolve.
Yum! Privacy Policy
Global Code of Conduct103-2 The management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses of customer dataYum! maintains a program to address potential security and privacy incidents. The program includes processes to meet notification or other reporting obligations under 
applicable local laws. During the reporting year, Yum! received seven substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy from outside parties, with six of 
those complaints originating from regulatory bodies. None resulted in the leak, theft or loss of customer data.SASB INDEX SASB INDEX
58 59Accounting Metric Unit of Measure Code Response
Energy Management
(1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid
electricity, (3) percentage renewableGigajoules (GJ)  
Percentage (%)FB-RN-130a.1 Energy data is available within the GRI Index and our CDP Climate Change response. Our CDP Climate Change  
2021 response achieved a score of B. 
To learn more about our approach to energy management, please see: Planet > Climate Action. The energy 
initiatives described therein will help us to achieve our Climate Action goals, detailed under Approach > Citizenship 
& Sustainability Goals
Additionally, we have conducted a climate change analysis in line with the recommendations of the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The analysis identified actions our company can take to be more 
resilient to the physical risks of climate change, such as diversifying energy sources and lowering the energy 
demands of restaurants. See the TCFD report  on our website.
(1) GRI 302-1
(2) GRI 302-1
(3) GRI 302-1
Water Management
(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water
consumed, percentage of each in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressThousand cubic meters
Percentage (%)FB-RN-140a.1 Water data is available within the GRI Index and our CDP Water Security  response. Our CDP Water Security 2021 
response achieved a score of A-. 
(1) GRI 303-3
(2) GRI 303-5;  Yum! conducted a global water risk assessment using the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas in 2021 to 
better understand water stress. Please see our CDP Water Security response for more information.
We have a goal to reduce average water consumption by 10% by the end of 2025, using a 2017 baseline.Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Response 
This disclosure marks Yum!'s second response to the SASB Restaurants Standard. We are in the process of developing our approach to collecting data for the accounting metrics, first for corporate-owned 
restaurants and then at the franchise level. For metrics for which data is not yet available, we offer information on our approach to and targets for these topics.Food & Packaging Waste Management
(1) Total amount of waste, (2) percentage food
waste, and (3) percentage divertedMetric tonnes (t)
Percentage (%)FB-RN-150a.1 See Planet > Sustainable Packaging & Waste Reduction for a summary of our circular approach to food and 
packaging waste reduction, as well as for details on brand level packaging and waste goals. Our approach spans 
operational waste diversion, sustainably designed packaging and donating food waste to nonprofits through the 
Harvest program (see People > Brand Community Impact > Hunger Relief for more).
(1) GRI 306-3
(2) GRI 306-3
(3) GRI-306-4
(1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage
made from recycled and/or renewable
materials, and (3) percentage that is
recyclable, reusable, and/or compostableMetric tonnes (t)
Percentage (%)FB-RN-150a.2 (1) Estimated 549,606 metric tons of fiber- and plastic-based packaging and customer servicewares. This is only a 
directional estimate, and we expect refinements in data collection in the future.
(2) It is estimated that 35% of fiber-based and 16% of plastic-based packaging and customer servicewares are from 
recycled sources. This is only a directional estimate and we expect refinements in data collection in the future.
(3) It is estimated that 13% of plastic packaging is generally considered widely recyclable in most jurisdictions (resin 
types 1 and 2).
Food Safety
(1) Percentage of restaurants inspected by a
food safety oversight body, (2) percentage
receiving critical violationsPercentage (%) FB-RN-250a.1 Yum! delivers "Trust in every bite." See Food > Food Safety for the measures we take together with our suppliers 
and franchisees to uphold our industry-leading food safety program. 
(1) Consistent high levels of performance in restaurants, with currently over 85% of restaurants at standard despite 
challenging labor markets.
(2) Significant Issues, currently at less than 0.25 average significant deviations per audit. 
(1) Number of recalls issued and (2) total
amount of food product recalledNumber
Metric tonnes (t)FB-RN-250a.2 There were no recalls issued.
Number of confirmed foodborne illness
outbreaks, percentage resulting in U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC) investigationNumber
Percentage (%)FB-RN-250a.3 There were no confirmed illness outbreaks resulting in U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
investigation during the reporting year. SASB INDEX SASB INDEX
60 61
Nutritional Content
(1) Percentage of meal options consistent with
national dietary guidelines and (2) revenue
from these optionsPercentage (%)  
Reporting  
currencyFB-RN-260a.1 Yum! publishes online nutrition calculators for all four brands’ U.S. menus and provides consumers with convenient 
access to allergen and nutrition information. 
By 2030, 50% of our menu items will be consistent with our global nutrition criteria of side menu items being 200 
calories or less, main menu items being 400 calories or less and combo/meal menu items being 750 calories or less.  
For the 2021 reporting year, 32% of meal options were consistent with our global nutrition criteria. 
See Food > Balanced Choices across our Portfolio for more. 
(1) Percentage of children’s meal options
consistent with national dietary guidelines for
children and (2) revenue from these optionsPercentage (%)  
Reporting  
currencyFB-RN-260a.2 Yum! follows U.S. and international guidelines to avoid marketing to children and is committed to our goal of 
limiting marketing communication to children under 12.
Number of advertising impressions made on
children, percentage promoting products that
meet national dietary guidelines for childrenNumber  
Percentage (%)FB-RN-260a.3 Yum! follows U.S. and international guidelines to avoid marketing to children and is committed to our goal of 
limiting marketing communication to children under 12.
Labor Practices
(1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate
for restaurant employeesRate FB-RN-310a.1 In building a workplace for everyone, Yum! seeks to retain and support restaurant employees. Read about our 
Unlocking Opportunity Initiative , established to positively impact restaurant team members and communities 
through equity and inclusion, education and entrepreneurship. As an input to the Initiative, we have engaged 
with restaurant workers to understand the challenges they face. Additionally, we provide training and scholarship 
programs. 
(1) The voluntary turnover rate for restaurant employees at company-owned locations, globally was 80.6%.
(2) The involuntary turnover rate for restaurant employees at company-owned locations, globally was 3.33%.
(1) Average hourly wage, by region and  
(2)percentage of restaurant employees earning
minimum wage, by regionReporting  
currency
Percentage (%)FB-RN-310a.2 Our pay philosophy centers around market competitiveness, which is reviewed each year.  Taco Bell has committed 
to pay an average minimum wage of $15 per hour in company restaurants by mid-year 2024.
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of
legal proceedings associated with (1) labor law
violations and (2) employment discriminationReporting
currencyFB-RN-310a.3 It is our policy to deal fairly with employees; provide equal opportunity for all in recruiting, hiring, developing, 
promoting and compensating without regard to race, religion, color, age, gender, disability, genetic information, 
military or veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, citizenship, national origin or other 
legally protected status; maintain a professional, safe and discrimination free work environment; and recognize and 
compensate employees based on their performance.
(1) The total monetary losses resulting from legal proceedings associated with labor law violations in 2021 were 
approximately $1.7MM. 
(2) The total monetary losses resulting from legal proceedings associated with employment discrimination 2021 
were approximately $339,000. Supply Chain Management & Food Sourcing
Percentage of food purchased that (1) meets
environmental and social sourcing standards
and (2) is certified to third-party environmental
and/or social standardsPercentage (%)  
by costFB-RN-430a.1 In recent years, Yum! has strengthened commitments to social and environmental standards in key areas of our 
supply chain, including vegetables, fresh produce, palm oil and animals. Our practices are aligned with third-
parties such as the Fair Food Standards Council, the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil and the U.S. Roundtable 
for Sustainable Poultry & Eggs. See also People > Ethics & Human Rights; Planet > Supply Chain; Food > Animal 
Welfare; Limiting Antibiotic Use
We support One Health, a holistic and multi-sector, long-term effort to combat AMR by the United Nations World 
Health Organization (WHO), the Food and Agriculture Organization, the World Organization for Animal Health 
and other key stakeholders. We remain compliant with our public commitments to reduce antibiotics important to 
human medicine in our U.S. poultry supply chains. 100% of KFC U.S. poultry is certified under the USDA's Process 
Verified Program (PVP) as meeting the No Antibiotics Used Important to Human Medicine as defined by the World 
Health Organization. Pizza Hut U.S., which is working toward removing antibiotics from chicken used for wings, 
expects to meet its goal to do so by 2022. In 2019, Taco Bell committed to reduce antibiotics important to human 
health in its U.S. and Canada beef supply chain by 25% by 2025.
Percentage of (1) eggs that originated from a
cage-free environment and (2) pork that was
produced without the use of gestation cratesPercentage (%)  
by number  
Percentage (%)  
by weightFB-RN-430a.2 We actively promote good stewardship of the animals raised for food throughout our supply chain.  We have a goal 
to source 100% cage-free eggs across at least 25,000 restaurants including the U.S., Western Europe and other 
leading markets for all menu items and ingredients by 2026 and achieve 100% cage-free eggs for all menu items 
and ingredients by 2030. In the United States, Canada, Australia and Western Europe suppliers are reporting that 
over 75% of the egg volume comes from a cage-free source. Taco Bell U.S. continues to source 100% cage-free eggs 
and egg ingredients in the U.S. and Canada.
Discussion of strategy to manage
environmental and social risks within the
supply chain, including animal welfaren/a FB-RN-430a.3 Approach > Citizenship & Sustainability Goals; Planet > Supply Chain; Food > Animal Welfare;  
Limiting Antibiotic Use
Activity Metrics
Number of (1) company-owned and  
(2) franchise restaurantsNumber FB-RN-000.A (1) On December 31, 2021, there were 1,051 company-owned restaurants. 
(2) On December 31, 2021, franchisees owned 52,373 restaurants.
Number of employees at (1) company-owned and  
(2) franchise locationsNumber FB-RN-000.B (1) On December 31, 2021, Yum! had approximately 32,000 restaurant employees.
 (2) We do not track the number of employees at franchise-owned locations, but we would expect there to  
be over an estimated 1 million restaurant employees.ABOUT THIS REPORT 
We remain committed to disclosing our sustainability progress. This report covers key commitments and 
initiatives that have been announced since our last report was published, in addition to full-year sustainability 
data from January 1–December 31, 2021. Data was gathered from our corporate operations, company-owned 
KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill restaurants and select franchisees. Throughout this report, 
references to Yum! may include activities performed by subsidiaries of Yum! Brands, Inc., including but not 
limited to KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill entities.
The Yum! Franchise Accelerator Fellowship is open to all eligible students regardless of race, color, national 
origin, sex, disability or age.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. We recognize GRI as a leading 
standard for reporting on ESG issues reflecting the results of a materiality assessment. This report also contains 
Yum!’s disclosure to the SASB Restaurant Standards and is also aligned with the TCFD’s guidance for reporting on 
climate risk.
For more information about our citizenship and sustainability work, visit www.yum.com/citizenship .
Please send comments or questions about this report to citizenship@yum.com .
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act 
of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend all forward-looking statements 
to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-
looking statements generally can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current 
facts and by the use of forward-looking words such as “expect,” “expectation,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “may,” 
“could,” “intend,” “belief,” “plan,” “estimate,” “target,” “predict,” “likely,” “seek,” “project,” “model,” “ongoing,” 
“will,” “should,” “forecast,” “outlook,” “new store opening goals” or similar terminology. These statements are 
based on and reflect our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and/or projections, our perception of 
historical trends and current conditions, as well as other factors that we believe are appropriate and reasonable 
under the circumstances. Forward-looking statements are neither predictions nor guarantees of future events, 
circumstances or performance and are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and 
assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by those statements. 
There can be no assurance that our expectations, estimates, assumptions and/or projections, including with 
respect to the future earnings and performance or capital structure of Yum!, will prove to be correct or that any 
of our expectations, estimates or projections will be achieved. The forward-looking statements included in this 
report are only made as of the date of this report, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-
looking statement to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
