1
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATE2018 Global Citizenship &  
Sustainability Progress UpdateSERVING UP  
MORE GOODNESS1
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATE
As a global citizen, Yum! Brands believes in acting responsibly 
as we grow KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell restaurants around the 
world. We use our Recipe for Good as a roadmap to guide our 
business practices concerning our food, planet and people. I 
couldn’t be more excited to share our 2018 Global Citizenship 
& Sustainability Progress Update, highlighting our recent 
announcements and commitments.  SERVING UP  
MORE GOODNESS
A Message From Greg Creed
“ We have made tremendous progress over the past 
year advancing our Recipe for Good agenda to drive 
socially responsible growth and manage risk.”
48,000 +
140 + Restaurants
20,000 +
Restaurants in 
Emerging Markets
98% Franchised
1.5+
MILLION
Franchise System 
Employees
Total Revenue
$5.69
BILLIONCountries &  
Territories
From working to remove antibiotics important to human 
medicine in our protein supply chain to expanding our 
deforestation commitments to progressing our work around 
diversity and inclusion, we are leveraging our scale to help 
address key societal issues. We will continue to partner with 
our employees, franchise owners and suppliers, together 
serving up more goodness to our customers, shareholders, 
communities and the planet.
I hope you enjoy learning more about our efforts to make the 
world better.
Cheers, 
GREG CREED
Chief Executive Officer 
Yum! Brands, Inc.YUM! AT A GLANCE 20182
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATECITIZENSHIP
At Yum!, we are committed to being a good 
corporate steward. Our mindset to make the 
world better is grounded in our Global Citizenship 
& Sustainability Strategy , called our Recipe for 
Good. We continue to focus on the sustainable 
stewardship of our food, planet and people to 
drive socially responsible growth and mitigate 
our business risk. We are committed to sharing 
progress with, and providing transparency for, 
our stakeholders including employees, customers, 
franchisees, shareholders and communities.We also continue to address the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals that are closely related to our material areas of 
impact including Zero Hunger, Quality Education, Gender Equality, 
Responsible Consumption and Production, and Climate Action. 
Stakeholder Engagement
Honest and regular engagement with our stakeholders continues to 
be a key element of our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy. 
We identified employees, customers, franchisees, shareholders and 
communities as our priority stakeholders. Listening to them provides 
us with important insight into food and industry trends and concerns 
around topics such as animal welfare, climate change and supply  
chain risks.
Working with organizations that have shared interest when it comes 
to the areas that are most material to our business helps us address 
industry challenges, opportunities and public policy issues. Key 
partnerships include:
• Dairy Sustainability Alliance
• NextGen Consortium
• RSPO
• U.S. Roundtable on Sustainable Beef
• U.S. Roundtable for Sustainable Poultry & Eggs
• World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
 
Additionally, we have continued to expand our engagement with the 
WWF. Following a supply chain risk assessment conducted over the 
past year, we are collaborating to increase the understanding of risk 
derived from the Brazilian supply chain. Strategy & Governance 
As a global franchisor with three iconic brands and more than  
1.5 million franchise system employees, we know how important 
it is to align our organization with our goals and drive progress 
in the areas of food, planet and people. We continue to focus on 
the priority issues identified in our most recent Enterprise Risk 
Management assessment, in addition to those in our most recent 
materiality assessment including climate change, deforestation, 
plastics and packaging, and diversity and inclusion. 
Under the leadership of Jerilan Greene, Yum! chief communications 
and public affairs officer, and Jon Hixson, Yum! vice president of 
global government affairs and sustainability, we are mobilizing 
internal stakeholders to keep advancing our sustainability agenda. 
From our executive leadership to functional leads in our global 
markets, we believe that everyone in our system plays an  
important role.
In addition to engaging internal stakeholders, we also updated 
key internal global governance documents including the Yum! 
Global Employee Code of Conduct and the Yum! Supplier Code 
of Conduct. You can view the full list of our current policies and 
positions here.
Regular reporting continues to be the primary way we share our 
progress and show transparency around our environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) practices. We participate in comprehensive 
voluntary disclosures annually including the Bloomberg Gender 
Equality Index, CDP Climate, Forests and Water , the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO) Annual Communication of Progress. 
FOOD
We Serve Food  
People TrustPEOPLE
We Unlock  
PotentialPLANET
We Grow  
Sustainably3
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATE
1992
Established 
the world’s first 
prepared food 
donation program 
called Harvest 
1984
Pizza Hut created the BOOK 
IT! Program, the longest-
running corporate supported  
reading program
2015
• Established diversity and inclusion council called 
Leading Inclusion for Today and Tomorrow (LIFT2)
• Awarded inaugural Diverse Supplier of the Year award 
• Set first palm oil goal 
• Set first operational waste goal 
• Achieved goal of 15% energy reduction  
by 2015 for company restaurants2009 
• Created Yum!  
Office of Sustainability 
• Achieved first Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) certification 
for first green restaurant in 
Northampton, Mass. built  
in 2008
2010
• Started reporting 
to CDP Climate 
(and to CDP 
Water in 2011 
and CDP Forests 
in 2017) 
• Set first water  
reduction goal2012 
Published 
Human & Labor 
Rights Policy 2014
• Set first paper-based 
packaging goal 
• Introduced Yum! 
Blueline green 
building standards2008
• Published first Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report 
• Became first company to announce 
voluntary placement of product calorie 
information on menu boards
• Became member of United States 
Green Building Council (USGBC)
2007
Introduced Achieving 
Breakthrough Results 
leadership training 
program2005 
Created Animal 
Welfare Advisory 
Council to continue 
elevating animal  
well-being practices 
2003 
Established Food 
Standards Council 
to continue 
sharpening food 
safety practices 
2016
Joined Roundtable 
on Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO)
2017
• Conducted first-ever formal 
materiality assessment 
• Published Sustainable Animal 
Protein Principles 
• KFC U.S. announced antibiotics 
commitments 
• Launched innovative employee 
development program called 
Grow Yourself Week 
• Achieved goal of 10% water 
reduction and 22% energy  
and GHG reduction2018
• Published first-ever investor grade 
sustainability report
• Published Animal Welfare Policy 
• Taco Bell joined the U.S. Roundtable 
for Sustainable Beef 
• Introduced two days of paid time off 
(PTO) for employee volunteering
• Signed on to the CEO Action for 
Diversity & Inclusion 
• Joined Paradigm for Parity® Coalition
• Joined NextGen Consortium 2019
• KFC announced global plastics commitment 
• Started exploring how to reduce greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions by setting science-based 
targets
• Endorsed New York Declaration on Forests 
(NYDF), expanding deforestation commitments 
to palm oil, soy, paper and beef
• Opened 34th  
LEED-certified restaurant
Serving the World
20082006
Set first energy 
conservation goal4
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATEFOOD
We Serve Food People Trust
We have an unwavering commitment to serve food 
people trust and give our customers an industry-
leading food supply from farm to table. Listening to 
our customers lets us better understand their needs 
and what they want in regards to where our food 
comes from, what goes into it and how it’s made. We 
continue to focus our improvements around animal 
welfare, antimicrobial stewardship and food safety. Additionally, Taco Bell announced a Good Antimicrobial 
Stewardship Program to seek continuous improvement 
in its beef supply and provide consumers with the 
highest quality beef. Its position supports reductions 
in antibiotics used in livestock production, with a focus 
on antibiotics important to human health and reducing 
antibiotic resistance. Taco Bell’s goal is to reduce 
antibiotics important to human health in its beef supply 
chain by 25% by 2025. The brand will share progress for 
this goal beginning in 2022. 
We also know that it’s important to work with others 
to drive progress around antimicrobial stewardship. 
With this in mind, Yum! joined The Antimicrobial 
Resistance (AMR) Challenge, an effort to accelerate the 
fight against antimicrobial resistance across the globe, 
sponsored by the United States Centers for Disease 
Control (CDC). 
Collaborating to Elevate  
Food Safety 
Food safety is of the utmost importance to Yum! and 
our brands. Strategic partnerships that further elevate 
best practice sharing in this space are critical to make 
positive change happen. This is why Yum! engages 
with groups like the Alliance on Foodborne Illness,  
a cooperative of foodservice and retail companies 
dedicated to building awareness, educating the public 
and encouraging best practice sharing to drive food 
safety forward industrywide. Enhancing Animal Welfare  
Our approach to animal welfare is holistic and a key 
element to providing our customers with the food they 
not only love, but can trust. In 2018, we published a new 
Global Animal Welfare Policy to further advance our efforts 
around improvements made from the farm through the 
supply chain including raising, handling, transportation and 
processing. As outlined in the policy, ongoing engagement 
with a range of stakeholders from governments, research 
institutions and industry animal welfare groups on the 
poultry, beef, dairy and pork industries remains a priority. 
We remain on track to develop animal welfare performance 
indicators by the end of 2020. 
Continuing Good Antimicrobial 
Stewardship 
We continue to make progress on our antimicrobial 
stewardship journey. KFC U.S. met its public commitment  
to remove antibiotics important to human medicine from its 
poultry supply by the end of 2018. The brand was the first 
major chicken restaurant in the U.S. to extend its antibiotic 
commitment to bone-in chicken. Globally, we focus on 
delivering science-based programs that are locally relevant 
and compliant.
TACO BELL RAISES THE BAR ON BEEF 
By 2025, Taco Bell will reduce antibiotics important to human health in its  
beef supply chain by 25%.
5
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATEBe the preferred 
restaurant for 
consumers seeking 
delicious, balanced 
options by offering 
more choice, 
more stewardship 
and nutritional 
improvements to our 
ingredients under 
the goal of the World 
Health Organization 
(WHO).Offer lower calorie menu options across  
main dishes, combos, and sides, consistent  
with Yum!’s global nutrition standards, to  
continue to improve our food’s nutrition. We are currently collecting data when it comes to our 
work in this area and plan to share a public goal in 2020. 
Reduce sodium across menu options, consistent with 
Yum!’s global nutrition standards, to continue to 
improve our food’s nutrition.We are currently collecting 
data when it comes to our 
work in this area and plan 
to share a public goal in 
2020.
Remove artificial colors  
and flavors, and preservatives 
where possible from core food 
ingredients by 2020.• We estimate that we are currently 86% complete in 
achieving our goal of removing artificial flavors and 
92% complete in removing artificial coloring from our 
food ingredients.
• In early 2019, Taco Bell fully removed the preservative  
tBHQ from all menu items in the U.S.
Remove all partially hydrogenated 
oils (PHOs) from ingredients by 
2020.In 2018, we are an estimated 96% complete in  
removing PHOs. 
Continue our commitments to reduce 
antibiotics important to human 
medicine in our food production. By 
2022, Pizza Hut U.S. plans to remove 
antibiotics important to human 
medicine from chicken used for 
wings. By 2025, Taco Bell will reduce 
antibiotics important to human health 
in its beef supply chain by 25%.• KFC, Pizza Hut (chicken for its pizzas) and Taco Bell in the 
U.S. have met public commitments to remove antibiotics 
important to human medicine from our U.S. poultry 
supply.
• Pizza Hut U.S. is on track to remove antibiotics important 
to human medicine from chicken used for wings.
• Taco Bell announced global commitment to reduce 
antibiotics important to human health in its beef supply.Maintain the safest, 
highest-quality food 
supply and preparation  
in the industry.  Maintain industry-leading, safe, high-quality food 
supply and customer experience. Provided restaurant team member training 
on employee health, product handling, 
ingredient and product management, 
and prevention of cross-contamination. 
Conducted more than 265,000 restaurant 
food safety audits between 2016 and 2018 
with approximately 3,700 food safety 
supplier audits in 2018 alone.Choice , Nutrition & Stewardship Food SafetyGoal Status
Promote transparency 
about our food through 
responsible labeling 
and advertising 
practices in our 
restaurants  
and beyond.Provide consumers with convenient access to food 
information regarding menu labeling and allergens.Published online nutrition calculators for 
all three brands’ U.S. menus as well as 
provided consumers with convenient access 
to allergen and nutrition information.
Limit marketing communications to children under 12.Followed U.S. and international guidelines to avoid 
marketing to children.Responsible  
MarketingFOOD 2018 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY6
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATE
PLANET
We Grow Sustainably
Being a good environmental steward matters 
to us. With our system opening over eight new 
restaurants each day on average, we recognize 
how important it is to use our scale for good 
and minimize the environmental impact of our 
restaurants and supply chain. Over the past year, 
we have made significant progress by expanding 
our deforestation commitments across the 
additional commodities of beef and soy, establishing 
new sustainable packaging goals and reducing 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
Reducing GHG Emissions 
We are committed to energy and climate initiatives 
to minimize our climate impact. We are pleased that 
we achieved a CDP Climate score of B with ever-
increasing standards. In the last 12 months, we also 
began an evaluation of our entire Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG 
emissions, in accordance with the Science-Based Targets  
initiative. This project will help us better understand 
our footprint, refine GHG reduction targets and identify 
emission reduction initiatives like renewable energy 
on the path to setting science-based targets. We will 
continue to share updates along the way as we identify 
our approach, goals and timeline. 
Eliminating Deforestation  
Yum! has been on a journey to reduce our 
environmental impact for years, including minimizing 
deforestation risk. The last year marked significant 
progress in this area with additional research and 
expanded policies. In 2018, WWF conducted a global 
supply chain risk assessment across our food and 
agriculture, which includes paper and packaging, and 
procurement. In line with the priorities identified in 
the risk assessment, we increased our engagement 
in several key commodities and expanded our 
deforestation commitments beyond palm and timber, to 
now include beef and soy.Following our 2018 global supply chain risk assessment, we started 
to deepen our work in preventing deforestation in our supply chains. 
After expanding our deforestation policy in 2019, we have focused 
on prioritizing markets and establishing more baseline transparency. 
Approximately 98% of our beef supply chain comes from origins of lower 
tropical deforestation risk including Australia, Canada, New Zealand, 
South Africa and the United States. Less than 2% of the beef in our 
supply chain comes from Brazil, an origin of higher risk.  In regards to 
soy, approximately 95% of Brazilian feed mills in our supply chain were 
audited as compliant in aligning with the Amazon Soy Moratorium to 
help protect tropical forests. We are now taking steps for prioritized 
actions in key markets. Our engagement with WWF continues with a 
focus on the Brazil supply chain and includes a landscape analysis and 
strategic implementation plan to better understand how to deliver on 
our no deforestation commitments.
There were also several challenges last year in an effort to purchase from 
suppliers who meet our sourcing principles and are certified by RSPO. 
As a result, we removed Indofood from our supply chain. We remain 
committed when it comes to all of our palm oil  
suppliers meeting our rigorous standards. 
Sustainable restaurant development has been  
a key element of our sustainability strategy for more  
than a decade. In 2009, our first green restaurant built in 
Northampton, Massachusetts, earned Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) Gold Certification. Ten years later, 
we have nearly 35 LEED certified restaurants around the world 
and celebrate a decade of membership in the United States Green 
Building Council in support of its LEED program. These foundational 
green restaurants provided a better understanding to help create 
our green building program called Blueline that incorporates energy 
and water conservation measures into thousands of restaurants. As a 
result of this work GHG emissions equivalent to the yearly release of 
over 600,000 U.S. homes have been avoided.CELEBRATING A DECADE OF 
PROGRESS IN GREEN BUILDINGSWe endorsed the New York Declaration on Forests 
(NYDF) and believe it is an important step toward 
us meeting the private sector goal of eliminating 
deforestation from the production of agriculture 
commodities such as palm oil, soy, paper and beef 
products no later than 2020, and halving the rate of 
loss of natural forest globally by 2020 and striving 
to end natural forest loss by 2030.
7
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATE
Palm Oil Paper-based PackagingInvesting in Sustainable 
Packaging
We continue to advance our work around sustainable 
packaging. Yum! joined the NextGen Consortium as a 
supporting partner in 2018, alongside other food and 
beverage brands, industry experts and innovators, to help 
advance food-service packaging solutions that are recoverable 
across global infrastructures. The NextGen Consortium 
marked a major milestone in the search for sustainable 
packaging solutions with the announcement of the NextGen 
Cup Challenge winners who participated in the open-
source, global challenge and are bringing forward innovative 
packaging options to positively impact the value chain.
KFC announced a new global 
sustainability pledge that all 
plastic-based, consumer-facing 
packaging will be recoverable 
or reusable by 2025. 
MARKETS MAKING AN IMPACT
• In China, KFC rolled  
out reusable serving baskets. 
• KFC Singapore launched  
the No Straw Initiative. 
• In Romania, KFC announced the 
removal of straws.
• Pizza Hut U.K. replaced plastic 
straws with paper. 
• Taco Bell U.S. started using 
recyclable cold cups and lids. 
96%
of cooking oil volume was 
sustainable palm or palm 
oil substitutes70%
of fiber came from certified 
forests or recycled sourcesGoal to source 
100%
of palm oil used for cooking 
from responsible and 
sustainable sources
 94%
of palm oil purchased  
was sustainableGoal to purchase 
100%
of our paper-based packaging 
with fiber from responsibly 
managed forests and recycled 
sources by the end of 2020The goal supports KFC’s long-term plan to implement 
a more sustainable packaging strategy in its restaurants 
and builds on progress already made in some markets to 
eliminate plastic packaging items. In 2019, KFC U.S. will 
transition out of large side containers made from expanded 
polystyrene, also known as Styrofoam, and into recyclable 
and consumer reusable polypropylene containers. This 
transition represents early and significant progress to meet 
PROGRESS ON KEY GOALS IN 2018
the 2025 pledge. Additionally, a recyclable paperboard 
platter replaced foam plates and other cartons for dine-in 
and non-buffet customers.
Taco Bell U.S. announced that it started using recyclable cold 
cups and lids in all restaurants. By 2021, it is committed to 
making all cups 100% recyclable.8
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATEPLANET 2018 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Design, build and 
operate restaurants to 
be measurably more 
sustainable using green 
building standards 
to drive reductions in 
energy consumption, 
water use, greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions 
and waste.Reduce average restaurant 
energy and GHG emissions  
by an additional 10% by the 
end of 2025.In 2018, we avoided the release of 740 mtCO2e. That 
is equivalent to removing over 150,000 passenger 
vehicles from the road for a year.
Reduce average restaurant water consumption by an 
additional 10% by the end of 2025 with a focus on high 
water-stress areas.Our efforts to reduce water consumption in 2018  
saved enough water to fill over 2,000 Olympic sized 
swimming pools. 
Divert 50% of back-of-house 
operational waste, measured by 
weight, generated in our U.S. 
restaurants by the end of 2020.In the U.S. we estimate that we removed 914,500 
tons of solid material from our restaurants. We 
avoided disposal of 22% of that waste in 2018. Key 
areas of diversion in our restaurants were corrugated 
cardboard, used cooking oil, donated food and 
mixed recyclables.
Reduce food loss and waste 50% by 2030 in accordance 
with U.S. Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions.Yum! Brands and our franchisees donated 5.6MM  
pounds of food in 2018, with 23 countries 
participating. 
Engage in building 
a responsible supply 
chain that protects 
forests, respects human 
rights, supports animal 
welfare and enables 
good stewardship.We continue to advance our work around sustainable 
packaging through impactful brand commitments and 
strategic partnerships. By 2025, all KFC plastic-based, 
consumer-facing packaging will be recoverable or 
reusable globally. By 2021, Taco Bell is committed to 
all cups being 100% recyclable.• KFC announced sustainability pledge that all plastic-
based, consumer-facing packaging will be recoverable 
or reusable.
• Taco Bell started using recyclable cold cups and lids in 
its more than 7,000 U.S. restaurants.
• Yum! joined NextGen Consortium as a  
supporting partner.
Source 100% of palm oil used for cooking from 
responsible and sustainable sources by the end  
of 2018.In 2018, 96% of our cooking oil volume was not palm 
oil or was sustainable palm oil. For the palm oil that our 
system purchased, approximately 94% of that volume 
was reported to be sustainable palm oil.
Purchase 100% of our paper-based packaging with fiber 
from responsibly managed forests and recycled sources 
by the end of 2020.In 2018, markets reported an estimated total of 70% of 
fiber came from certified forests or recycled sources. 
Endorsed the New York Declaration on Forests (NYDF) 
and the private sector goal of eliminating deforestation 
from the production of agriculture commodities such 
as palm oil, soy, paper and beef products no later than 
2020, and halving the rate of loss of natural forest 
globally by 2020 and striving to end natural forest loss 
by 2030.• Approximately 95% of Brazilian feed mills in our 
supply chain were audited as compliant in aligning 
with the Amazon Soy Moratorium to help protect 
tropical forests.
• 98% of beef sourced from origins of lower risk of 
tropical deforestation.
Seek continuous improvements in sustainable 
production systems that protect human, animal 
and environmental health as stated in our holistic 
Sustainable Animal Protein Principles & Good 
Antimicrobial Stewardship Program.Published new animal welfare policy in 2018. Reporting 
metrics to be established by the end of 2020. Continued 
expansion and reporting of antibiotics progress. 
Serve 100% cage-free eggs and 
source 100% cage-free egg 
ingredients at U.S. and Canada  
Taco Bell locations.We have met these goals and will continue to provide 
eggs and use egg ingredients that are cage-free at Taco 
Bell locations in the U.S. and Canada.Green Buildings Supply ChainGoal Status9
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATEPEOPLE
We Unlock Potential
Having unrivaled culture and talent is one of our 
business growth drivers and is more important than 
ever before with at least 98% of our restaurants 
owned by franchisees. Developing our people 
and their capabilities requires an approach that’s 
customized and interactive given the diversified 
and decentralized structure of our organization. By 
taking this approach, we are able to unlock potential 
in our employees and help them make a difference at 
work, at home and in their communities. 
Advancing Diversity & Inclusion 
As a global company, we want to reflect the local 
communities our restaurants serve around the world. With 
diverse employees, customers, franchisees and shareholders, 
we are sharpening our approach to attracting, developing 
and retaining top diverse talent, and also maintaining a 
workplace where all people are valued and respected. A 
key element includes our increased focus on developing 
inclusion as a leadership competency. Over the past year, we 
have continued to expand our Inclusive Leadership program 
to corporate and franchisee employees.
We are proud that more than 50% of our global workforce 
are women. We also continue our work to advance women 
into senior roles and achieve gender parity in leadership 
globally by 2030, in alignment with the Paradigm for Parity®  
coalition. In 2018, approximately 40% of global leadership 
positions were held by women. In fact, we have made more 
progress in the past 18 months than in the previous 10 
years. We have focused our efforts on increasing coaching 
capability, leaning into sponsorship programs and cultivating 
top level women talent through events like our first-ever Yum! 
Women’s Leadership Summit. As a result of these efforts, we 
were named once again to the Bloomberg Gender Equality 
Index. We are also working to make the same progress when 
it comes to underrepresented minorities.
Our partnership with the CEO Action for Diversity and 
Inclusion, the largest CEO-driven business commitment 
to advance diversity and inclusion within the workplace, 
continues to help support our work in this area by amplifying 
the voice of corporate leadership and providing tangible 
training and resources around unconscious bias.
WOMEN IN GLOBAL LEADERSHIP*
+6
27% 33% 40%+7
2008 2017 2018
PARTNERS FOR PROGRESS*Director title and aboveWe have made more progress in the past 18 months 
than in the previous 10 years.10
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATE
TACO BELL JOB CREATION
SERVING UP GOODBuilding Culture Capability
To continue elevating our culture, we launched Inspiring 
Others to Fuel Results, the next iteration of our global 
leadership development course called Leading Culture 
to Fuel Results for corporate employees and franchisees. 
Our CEO Greg Creed created the course to encourage 
our people to become leaders who prioritize inspirational 
leadership. Since the program launched in 2016, a majority 
of senior corporate leaders have participated. Over the past 
several years, our leaders have conducted approximately 
20 courses with employees and franchisees across more 
than 10 countries. Our focus moving forward is to continue 
expanding the training to our franchise system. Unlocking Potential in 
Communities 
Making the world better is one of our core values, and our 
people do that by sharing their time, talents and money.
In 2018, KFC celebrated its first-ever global community 
outreach effort through a new, annual giving initiative 
called “ Acts of Colonel-ness,” in honor of founder Colonel 
Harland Sanders’ 128th birthday. KFC challenged 800,000 
team members in more than 135 countries to commit 
to doing a total of 128,000 acts of kindness in their 
communities during September. Actions included KFC 
South Africa expanding its Harvest program to all franchisee 
restaurants and KFC partners in Egypt, Saudi Arabia and 
UAE recognizing more than 1,000 delivery drivers with care 
packages. 
Pizza Hut U.S. continued its long-standing focus on literacy 
— making progress against its commitment to impact 100 
million lives in 10 years. By the end of 2018, its second full 
year of the commitment, Pizza Hut was nearly 23% of the 
way to achieving its goal. Initiatives that contributed to this 
progress include the brand’s in-restaurant fundraisers and 
the Pizza Hut BOOK IT! Program, which officially launched 
a digital version – making it easier for educators to enroll 
in the program and reward student reading achievement. 
Additionally, Pizza Hut develops its own educator resources 
and classroom tools. One example is Shelf Help – a 
monthly newsletter featuring new and noteworthy book 
recommendations that teach kids about character traits like 
kindness, citizenship and inclusivity.
Taco Bell also grew its community efforts by launching 
the Round Up program that gives customers the option 
to “round up” their order total to the nearest dollar at 
checkout to help feed the educational dreams of passionate 
innovators and creators. Plus, the Taco Bell Foundation’s 
Live Má s Scholarship more than doubled its funding goal 
in 2018, committing to award $21 million in scholarships by 
2021.
The Yum! Brands Foundation continued to help our 
employees unlock potential in the communities where they 
work and live by giving $1.23 million to causes they’re most 
passionate about supporting. 
Gave 
$55.6MM
to causes we’re 
passionate aboutLogged
 10K
volunteer 
hours in our 
communitiesImpacted
27MM
people around 
the worldYum! System Impact in 2018Having a strong culture in our restaurants remains a key focus 
of our people strategy. For Taco Bell, a fun, values-driven 
culture is a differentiator and was the inspiration behind 
its hiring parties, which are a unique spin on job fairs with 
free food, festivities and on-the-spot job interviews. Since 
launching in 2018, Taco Bell has hosted nearly 600 hiring 
parties across the country as part of its broader commitment 
to create 100,000 new U.S. jobs by 2022.Commitment to create
100K
new U.S. jobs by 2022PEOPLE
We Unlock Potential11
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATECreate a culture of 
engagement that 
attracts, retains and 
grows the best people 
and creates high 
performance in our 
restaurants.Measure Yum! Brands’ employee engagement.In 2019, we will launch an enhanced global  
employee engagement survey to all above-restaurant 
corporate employees.
Provide Yum! Brands’ employees 
with training and development 
that builds world-class leaders 
and business results.Nearly 10,000 employees participated in our core 
corporate level training programs in 2018 including 
Leading Culture to Fuel Results, Leading with Heart 
and Unconscious Bias.
Hold our employees, 
franchisees and 
suppliers to the 
highest standards of 
professional and ethical 
conduct.Remain committed to our Global 
Code of Conduct and Supplier 
Code of Conduct, which addresses 
guidelines for working conditions 
consistent with frameworks such as 
those of the International Labour 
Organization (ILO) and the UN 
Guiding Principles on Human Rights.Published updated Code of Conduct and Supplier 
Code of Conduct. Nearly 7,000 employees completed 
anticorruption training included in our Code of 
Conduct. Delivered annual compliance training to all 
company-owned restaurant employees.
Support global 
initiatives related to 
hunger relief, literacy 
and youth education, 
and nonprofits near 
our hometown 
headquarters.Donate food, funds, time and talent to help 
local and global communities.Our global organization donated $55.6 
million and impacted over 27 million people 
in 2018 through programs like the KFC 
Foundation, Pizza Hut’s BOOK IT! Program 
and the Taco Bell Foundation’s Live Más 
Scholarship. We also donated 5.6 million 
pounds of food through our Harvest Program.Build an inclusive 
culture among our 
employees, franchisees 
and suppliers to reflect 
the diversity of our 
customers.Minimize or eliminate unconscious bias through 
employee education.Continued to expand our unconscious bias training 
program called Inclusive Leadership to above 
restaurant corporate employees and franchisees. 
Significantly increase the number 
of women in senior leadership 
globally and achieve gender parity 
in leadership globally by 2030 in 
alignment with Paradigm for Parity®.Aligned with the Paradigm for Parity®, a coalition of 
companies working to increase the number of women in 
senior operating roles. In 2018, 40% of global leadership 
roles were held by women.
Significantly increase diverse representation of 
underrepresented minorities in the U.S. among 
corporate employees.Increased focus on coaching capability, sponsorship 
programs and customized individual development plans. 
Continued partnership with CEO Action for Diversity & 
Inclusion™, a national coalition for workplace diversity.
Help ensure our workplaces are places where 
employees can have complex conversations about 
diversity and inclusion.Continued driving global strategy 
for diversity and inclusion. Hosted 
a companywide diversity chat to 
engage employees in meaningful 
dialogue around diversity and 
inclusion issues.Culture  
& TalentEthics & 
Human RightsCommunity &
PhilanthropyDiversity & InclusionGoal StatusPEOPLE 2018 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY12
2018 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS UPDATE
We remain committed to disclosing our sustainability progress and will produce a full-year sustainability report on a  
bi-annual basis. Our previous report was a full-year sustainability report released in 2018, covering our results and 
progress for calendar year 2017. You can view our 2017 Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report here. 
This progress update covers key commitments and initiatives that have been announced since our last report was 
published, in addition to full-year sustainability data from Jan. 1 – Dec. 31, 2018. Data was gathered from our corporate 
operations, company-owned restaurants and select franchisees. 
Please send comments or questions about this progress update to citizenship@yum.com.ABOUT THE PROGRESS UPDATE
