May 2022  |  1
Zoom ESG Report FY22
Fiscal Year 2022Environmental Social 
Governance ReportMay 2022  |  2
Zoom ESG Report FY22Introduction
03 CEO statement  
04 Corporate overview
06 Our approach to ESG responsibility
ESG framework
09 People
15 Community
20 Environment
24 Trust
Appendix
32 Policies and statements
32 Forward-looking statements
33 SASB index tableMay 2022  |  3
Zoom ESG Report FY22At Zoom, we are dedicated to delivering happiness and caring for our community, 
customers, and employees. We seek to make the world a better place by providing 
technology that connects people and organizations, fosters open dialogue, enables 
education and inclusivity, enhances productivity, facilitates reductions in carbon 
emissions, and much more. 
Our success rests on our culture. We believe that by creating an environment where people  
love to work and where all Zoomies feel a sense of belonging, we attract the best talent and 
realize the greatest benefits from their contribution. Our achievements have only been  
possible through the dedication and perseverance of our highly motivated and passionate team. 
Our resolute commitment to our core value of Care has only strengthened with our rapid 
growth and deepening impact on society. Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, we made the 
decision to offer Zoom for free to primary and secondary schools globally, and more than 
125,000 school domains across 25 countries took us up on our offer. We also launched our 
social impact program, Zoom Cares. In 2021, Zoom and Zoom employees provided over 
$16.5 million of funding and in-kind product donations to global nonprofits and charitable 
organizations, and Zoom provided our product at half-price to approximately 25,000 
nonprofit organizations. 
While it’s no secret that our product has allowed companies to massively reduce  
their carbon footprint through reducing the need for travel, we want to also ensure the  
sustainability of our direct footprint. As such, we are committing to reaching 100%  
renewable electricity in our operations by 2030. 
We care about the trust customers place in us and believe it is crucial for our long-term 
success. So we strive to be vigilant and proactive in addressing the unique and evolving 
security and privacy needs of our enterprise, government, and individual customers, and 
continuously strengthen the overall security, privacy, and transparency of our platform.  
In FY22, we more than doubled the size of our security team. Our digital Trust Center helps 
customers use our platform safely and securely. We will never rest in our commitment to 
protect our users’ privacy and security when using our products.
Through our continued focus on innovation, we are excited to be a leader in the evolution 
toward a future of work that allows greater flexibility for both in-person and virtual connections. 
By untethering work from a physical location, Zoom contributes to a more equitable 
distribution of rewarding jobs across borders and empowers workers everywhere to make 
choices about their careers and lives that are best for them. Driven by our deep commitment 
to employee happiness, we recently announced that we will allow our employees to  
choose their workstyle whether it be in-person, remote, or hybrid. We are humbled by our 
opportunity to help build the future of work – a future we believe will enable greater 
employee happiness, choice, and mobility and benefit our communities and planet.
Looking forward,
Eric S. Yuan  
Zoom founder, CEO, and stockholderIntroduction People Community Environment Trust AppendixMay 2022  |  4
Zoom ESG Report FY22Zoom was founded with a simple goal: to make video communications 
frictionless and secure. More than ten years later, this is still our 
mission. It is supported by our vision, core value, and culture. We 
deliver happiness to our customers, communities, and teammates 
with a platform of communication and collaboration technologies.
We have progressively built out the Zoom communications platform, 
adding services, features, and apps to respond to the needs of our 
customers. Our unified communications platform also includes Zoom 
Phone, a unique video-first cloud-based PBX system, and Zoom 
Rooms, a software-based conference room system that enables 
users to experience Zoom Meetings in their physical meeting spaces. 
A cornerstone of our offering remains Zoom Meetings, a full suite of 
products and features that provides an easy, reliable, and interactive 
video communication experience. Our user experience is enhanced 
by a suite of Zoom Apps available to customers along with our Zoom 
Events offering. Customers can take advantage of our professional 
services, and our Zoom Events team can support customers’ 
organization and execution needs for small to large gatherings, 
whether fully virtual or hybrid in nature. We also recently launched Zoom Contact Center, an omnichannel customer engagement 
solution that is optimized for video and integrated right into the 
Zoom client. It brings unified communications together with modern 
contact center capabilities, helps customers connect over video,  
and also supports channels like voice, SMS, and webchat.
Building on our initial enterprise focus, we quickly expanded to 
support the hundreds of millions of consumers who used Zoom 
during the past two years to stay connected in innovative ways we 
couldn’t have predicted. To meet the accelerated growth in our user 
base, we scaled our infrastructure, enhanced our security features, 
and nearly tripled the size of our team in the space of two years. 
We believe Zoom is well-positioned to deliver happiness to and 
enhance productivity for people everywhere. Our goal is to help our 
customers succeed and to enable global communities to engage 
across all types of workspaces, workstyles, and forums through our 
secure, scalable, global architecture.Corporate overview
OUR MISSION
Make video communications  
frictionless and secure
OUR CORE VALUE
Care for our Community, Customers,  
Company, Teammates, and OurselvesOUR VISION
Video communications empowering  
people to accomplish more
OUR CULTURE
Delivering happinessIntroduction People Community Environment Trust AppendixMay 2022  |  5
Zoom ESG Report FY22Comparably
Ranked by Comparably as among the best 
companies for Diversity, Women, CEO, 
Culture, Perks & Benefits, and 12 other 
awards in 202118 global offices 6,787 employees Zoom stats and key figures
Awards and recognition
Gartner
Leader in Gartner’s 2021 Magic Quadrant 
for Meeting Solutions (6 consecutive years) 
and UCaaS (2 consecutive years)
Interbrand  
Among Interbrand’s Best Global Brands  
for 2021 and 2020Glassdoor  
Awarded as one of Glassdoor’s  
Employee Choice Best Places to Work  
in 2022 and 2021$4.1B Revenue in FY22 (55% YoY Growth)Introduction People Community Environment Trust AppendixMay 2022  |  6
Zoom ESG Report FY22Over 10 years ago, Zoom was founded to build a better, simpler, and 
more efficient video communications platform. Our work since then 
has been underpinned by our culture of delivering happiness and 
empowering people to accomplish more. We care deeply about our 
employees, customers, community, and planet. And we strive to 
make a positive impact by delivering virtual connections to the global 
community. We also believe that Zoom can play an important role in 
building a more sustainable future for our environment and society. 
Our employees share Zoom’s commitment to sustainability and to 
making a positive impact both through their work at Zoom and more 
broadly in the community. We seek to support their organic efforts 
and nurture their drive. 
We have developed an ESG framework to focus our efforts in  
the areas where we believe we can have the greatest impact. 
Importantly, this framework reflects our ambition to contribute to a 
more sustainable future for everyone and deliver happiness to  
more people. Looking ahead, we aim to continuously improve the 
sustainability of Zoom by measuring our progress against clear 
targets. When it comes to sustainability, there will always be more 
we can do, and this is a challenge we welcome at Zoom.
Creating a shared vision for ESG responsibility at Zoom
As Zoom has grown, the range of ESG activities across the company 
has naturally and intentionally expanded. As of the end of FY22, we 
had nearly 6,800 employees contributing to our fast-paced, energetic, 
and caring workplace culture. Our communications platform has 
enabled hundreds of millions of people around the world to work 
from home and dramatically reduce business travel, saving tens  
of millions of tons of carbon emissions. And our Zoom Cares 
philanthropic program donates to organizations globally. We are 
proud of the impact we have made by working together with our 
teammates, customers, and communities. Now, we are bringing  
all this great work together under an overarching ESG strategy.
To do this, we’ve sought advice from expert ESG specialists, 
including Nasdaq’s ESG Advisory Practice, Anthesis Group, and 
Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), and followed a structured 
approach that aligns with best practices. This process has  
helped us develop Zoom’s ESG framework. It sets out our shared  
sustainability vision, identifies our priorities, and defines how  
we’ll govern our ESG program.“
Eric S. Yuan“Zoom cares about the long-term benefits of our employees, 
customers, and community. We strive to make a positive 
impact by delivering virtual connections to the global 
community and committing to build a sustainable  
future for our environment and society.”Living our core value
Reporting our progress
Trust is embedded in our culture and an integral part of our ESG 
framework, and we will be open and honest about our progress 
towards our ESG vision. This report is the first of its kind for Zoom 
and signals our intention to communicate regularly about our  
ESG efforts. 
Demonstrating our commitment to clear and comprehensive 
disclosure, the content of this report has been informed by leading 
ESG disclosure frameworks and standards, including the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) Software  
and IT Services sector guide and the framework developed by the 
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).Our approach to ESG responsibilityIntroduction People Community Environment Trust AppendixMay 2022  |  7
Zoom ESG Report FY22We conducted a materiality study to identify the areas that are  
both important to us and our stakeholders – customers, users, 
employees, and investors – and best aligned with our ability to make 
a positive impact. We partnered with BSR, a sustainability consultant, 
to complete this assessment in line with ESG best practices. 
To capture a broad view of the activities and issues relevant to 
Zoom, stakeholders from a cross-section of internal functions  
were interviewed. We combined the findings from these stakeholder 
interviews with research into our company and the external Our materiality assessment
landscape to identify key issues. The matrix below shows the output 
of this process.
By taking a comprehensive approach to identifying our material issues, 
we were able to develop a robust and resilient ESG strategy that is 
designed to adapt to the challenges and opportunities ahead. We 
intend to review and update our materiality assessment periodically  
as part of our ongoing reporting cycle to ensure we are ready to 
respond to any issues that should arise in our dynamic industry. 
Key Priorities  (listed alphabetically)  
Data Privacy and Security  
DEI
Energy and Climate  
Emerging Technology & Ethics  
Freedom of Expression  
Responsible Product Use  
Systemic Risks from Technology Disruption 
Influence on Business SuccessImportance to Stakeholders
High LowLowHighIntroduction People Community Environment Trust AppendixMay 2022  |  8 Zoom ESG Report FY22Our ESG framework
Trust
Zoom is dedicated to being a platform people can trust,  
and trust is an integral part of our values and culture.  
We are committed to ethical business practices and making  
the Zoom platform seamless, safe, and secure for every user.People
We believe the best employees are happy employees.  
We work hard to create a productive, inclusive, and inspiring 
working environment, where all employees feel they are 
valued and belong. Community
Zoom cares about the diverse array of communities we serve. 
Zoom’s social impact arm, Zoom Cares, envisions a more  
just society for people and the planet we all share. We strive 
to leverage the full strength of our business to build a future 
that is more just, more equitable, and more caring.
Environment
We believe in caring for our environment. Our products help 
global businesses mitigate their carbon footprint by allowing 
them to reduce business travel. We minimize the impact of our 
operations through workplace programs and support global 
initiatives to make a direct positive impact on the environment. We recognize ESG as a broadly defined term encompasses sustainable business practices across 
environmental, social and governance considerations. Aided by the takeaways from our  
materiality assessment, we have arrived at an ESG framework that encompasses these sustainable 
business practices across four key focus areas: People, Community, Environment and Trust.  
The road ahead
We are pleased to be taking this next step in our evolution as a company and excited  
about how much more we’ll be able to achieve by formalizing our approach to ESG. We  
are proud of the positive impact we have already made, and we know there is always more 
that can be done. ESG is an ongoing endeavor for Zoom, as we continue to build on our  
initiatives, identify opportunities to address our priority themes, and share our progress.Introduction People Community Environment Trust AppendixMay 2022  |  9
Zoom ESG Report FY2211 Workforce development
12 Employee health, safety and wellbeing
13 Future of work
13 Labor Practices
14 Promoting diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI)  
 at Zoom People
Introduction Community Environment Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  10
Zoom ESG Report FY22People
At Zoom, we focus on understanding how people will use and 
access our products and on meeting customer needs as central 
components of our product development process. We strive to 
deliver happiness to customers in every interaction with our 
products and with our people. Our employees’ dedication and  
hard work are key to achieving this.
Great people are our strongest asset. We prioritize attracting, 
retaining, and developing talent. We offer robust training and career 
development opportunities. We seek broad and specific feedback 
regularly from our employees then iterate to meet evolving needs 
and trends. We focus on inclusivity. This includes accessibility in the 
design of our workspaces and use of our technology within our  
own organization, as well as programs designed to help employees 
feel comfortable and connected in their role and within Zoom as  
a whole.We take great pride in our culture, with its emphasis on care and 
delivering happiness. We strive to facilitate a productive, fun, and 
friendly work environment and provide highly competitive benefits, 
as evidenced by Zoom being named one of Glassdoor’s Employee 
Choice  Best Places to Work in 2021 and 2022. In addition, 
Comparably awards  for Best Company Happiness, Best Company 
Culture, and Best Company for Diversity in 2022 were welcome 
signs that our focus on our values and people are widely known  
and appreciated. 
We continue to seek new ways to support our employees and  
create the optimal work environment. As our employee base has 
rapidly grown, we have invested heavily in implementing workforce 
programs to make sure we continue to provide the productive, 
engaging, and inspiring work environment that drives us all forward. 
Introduction Community Environment Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  11
Zoom ESG Report FY22People
Workforce development
Recruitment and retention 
Our continued success depends on attracting and retaining the  
best talent. One of the ways we do this is by showing our employees 
we care about their happiness and recognize their value. We offer 
competitive employee benefits and reward programs, and we 
regularly monitor the market to make sure our compensation and 
benefit packages remain competitive. 
Another way we are able to attract and retain the best talent is 
through the flexibility we provide - enabled by our technology -  
for Zoomies to choose one of three workstyles: in-person, remote,  
and hybrid. By untethering our recruitment practices from office 
locations, we are able to hire the best talent wherever they may be.
All Zoomies are also given the chance to own equity in Zoom, sharing 
in the long-term success of the company, through our new-hire grant 
and refresh equity awards as well as our Employee Stock Purchase 
Plan (ESPP). In 2020 and 2021, we made additional equity grants to 
substantially all of our employees to recognize them for their hard 
work during a pivotal time for the company.
We actively seek out talented candidates and use a customer 
relationship management marketing platform to broaden the 
recruitment pool and build relationships with prospective candidates. 
We also participate in industry conferences and events to proactively 
identify key talent. A referral program helps us to leverage the 
networks of our workforce and expand the reach of our recruitment 
efforts. To make sure these measures are effective, we monitor key 
workforce planning metrics and adjust our approach as needed.
Developing happy careers
We believe that helping our team members pursue a rewarding  
and meaningful career is an important part of delivering happiness.  
A six-part program, Design Your Career, is offered to all employees to 
help them develop the knowledge and skills to develop their careers. 
Participants learn about different ways of crafting their careers 
during a series of discussions, breakout rooms, and other activities. 
Our approach to talent management focuses on identifying and 
leveraging fundamental competencies that we call ZoomAbilities. 
These encompass competencies for individual contributors and for 
people leaders and provide a broad-based approach to employee 
development. As Zoom employees grow in their careers, the breadth and scope of competencies shift from a more tactical to a more 
strategic emphasis.  
Developing leaders
We also offer a comprehensive leadership development program 
that spans all the stages of leadership. Modules include:
1. Begin to Lead  – Focused on giving first-time leaders and 
leaders new to Zoom the skills needed to transition from  
an individual contributor to a people leader.
2. Lead Forward – Focused on providing all leaders with the 
key components of leadership success.
3. Lead On – Modules for all leaders and team leads focused 
on continuous skill building outside of the fundamentals 
taught in previous programs.
4. Feedback Focus  – A four-part module designed to help  
all leaders build skills around giving and receiving feedback, 
including upward feedback.
5. Leading at Scale  – Focused on helping senior leaders 
manage the complexity within a large organization.  
This leadership training is reinforced through mentorship from a 
coaching cohort, consisting of small groups of managers that meet 
regularly to discuss the challenges of leadership, provide support 
and share best practices. Leaders can also access bespoke programs 
that target specific challenges, like integrating new hires or 
supporting employees during times of transition. Introduction Community Environment Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  12
Zoom ESG Report FY22People
Employee health, safety and wellbeing
Care is our core value, and focusing on the health and wellbeing  
of our teammates naturally fits within this. We take a broad view  
of health and wellness and offer employee benefits to support the 
physical, mental, and financial wellbeing of our people. 
We provide generous health, dental, and vision insurance, and 
contribute toward the total cost of the plans. Other benefits  
include a Family Building Benefit for employees, where Zoom pays 
up to $10,000 for care such as basic checkups, egg freezing, in-  
vitro fertilization, adoption, and gestational carrier support. A broad  
range of free therapy and coaching programs are also provided  
for employees and their families, as well as free membership to 
Northstar, a holistic financial planning and management platform 
that can help employees with budgeting, saving, debt management, 
investing, and insurance. 
Employee engagement
We conduct biannual engagement surveys to take the pulse of our 
organization and track employee engagement. We also issue 
off-cycle surveys on specific topics that arise to make sure we’re 
addressing the most current needs and concerns of our team.  Our engagement survey process is not only about understanding 
engagement but is also focused on action. The surveys are designed 
to provide actionable insights to managers, and we encourage 
managers to discuss results with their teams and commit to action 
items. In the last 12 months, we have had over an 85% participation 
rate in our engagement surveys, which is notably higher than  
the average for a typical company, and more importantly our 
engagement scores exceed the relevant benchmarks.
One of the ways we try to spread happiness across the organization 
is through our ‘Happy Crew’ of 200 employee volunteers who 
promote our values and create long-lasting bonds between employees. 
To do this, they host social events, coordinate volunteering efforts, 
and reward and recognize people across Zoom.
We offer a range of flexible working options to help our employees 
to establish work-life balance. All full-time exempt employees have 
unlimited paid time off, and we periodically give Zoomies additional 
company days off to recognize their hard work and allow them  
to recharge. In 2021, for example, we provided three of these  
company-wide days off.Introduction Community Environment Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  13
Zoom ESG Report FY22People
Future of work
Labor practicesWe’re proud of how our product has helped so many organizations 
adapt and respond to the evolving nature of work caused by 
technological changes, generational shifts, and accelerated by the 
global pandemic. Having proven that so much can be achieved 
through new ways of working, we are now focusing on making 
proactive and positive contributions to reimagining the future  
of work. 
Research has shown that employees value the flexibility afforded  
by new working models, and many do not wish to return to full-time 
in-office work. This certainly applies to our own employees. 
Recognizing these preferences, we introduced three employee-led 
workstyles. Going forward, the vast majority of employees will have 
the choice on where they work. Some of us will always work from  
a home office. Others will always work from a Zoom office. But for 
most of us, it will be a mix of both. Offering employee-led  
workstyles is in line with our strategy of delivering happiness to 
current and future Zoomies.
To lead the effort to reopen our offices, we established an internal 
cross-functional team to gather employee feedback, understand 
local and country mandates, coordinate processes and policies for 
We comply with all regulatory labor practices in all jurisdictions 
where we operate. We offer competitive compensation and benefits 
packages that support our employees’ overall wellbeing. These 
packages include base pay, bonuses, flexible benefit plans, and 
equity. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union. 
Employees in one of our non-U.S. subsidiaries have the benefit of  
a collective bargaining agreement and are represented by a workers’ 
council. We have not experienced interruptions of operations or  
any work stoppages due to labor disagreements. the new work reality, and incorporate tools to facilitate returning  
to offices, such as for workplace reservation and health checks.  
We assessed utilization, tested the set-up of our office spaces, and 
gathered input through several proof of concept office re-openings. 
We have been pleased with the progress so far and will continue  
to iterate and improve our flexible, hybrid working model.
We also regularly advise our customers and support them in 
optimizing their workforce approach. We envision a future of 
employee-centric work practices that emphasize education, 
flexibility, and choice, as companies balance remote, hybrid, and 
in-office experiences. The guiding principle of these efforts is to 
learn and evolve our practices to ensure an equitable and inclusive 
working environment no matter where employees are based or  
what their workstyle is. We are viewed as a leader in enabling hybrid 
work. Our products support customers embracing this new way  
of working, and we frequently share our expertise with customers 
and publish thought leadership on our blog and through other 
forums. We recently ran a series of Work Transformation Summits  
to support our partners in creating successful remote, hybrid,  
and co-located working models.Introduction Community Environment Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  14
Zoom ESG Report FY22People
Promoting diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) at Zoom
A key part of providing an environment where people can thrive is 
encouraging individuals to contribute fully by being their authentic 
selves. Zoom strives to provide a safe and welcoming environment, 
where all employees belong and are treated equally. Recently, we 
released our first DEI Report , which includes a breakdown of our 
employees across various diversity metrics (summarized below) –  
an important step as we look to further enhance the diversity and 
sense of belonging across our expanding employee base.
Advancing DEI 
In 2020, we formalized our DEI program and developed a four-pillar 
DEI strategy focused on workforce (who and how we hire), workplace 
(how it feels to work at Zoom), marketplace (how we include our 
customers), and community (how we help to make the world more 
equitable). We conducted our first global DEI survey of Zoom 
employees in 2021, and the results will become our baseline for 
tracking our progress and informing current and future strategy. 
Additionally, in 2021, over 2,000 Zoomies attended DEI “town hall” 
sessions to build awareness and understanding of DEI at Zoom.
Building a diverse workforce
A core focus of our DEI strategy is to embed diversity-focused 
initiatives into our recruitment processes. Our Global Emerging 
Talent team, responsible for university recruiting at Zoom, has taken 
steps to diversify our candidate outreach through engagements  
of a number of diversity events and conferences, as well as campus 
initiatives. Our university and campus strategy encompasses partnerships with nearly a dozen top universities throughout the US, 
such as Claflin University, where we have built a five-year strategic 
partnership. Our recruiters are trained in inclusive recruitment and 
hiring practices. In addition, we use tools designed to ensure we post 
inclusive job descriptions and mitigate bias in candidate evaluations. 
We’ve also taken steps to broaden our candidate pool by forging 
external recruiting partnerships, and participating in programs like 
Next Chapter to provide apprenticeships for formerly incarcerated 
individuals re-entering the workforce.
Belonging and inclusion at Zoom
Last year, we formally launched our Employee Resource Group (ERG) 
program, forming affinity groups for employees focusing on Asian 
and Pacific Islander, Black, Latinx, LGBTQ+, Veteran, and Women at 
Zoom communities. Each ERG has its own mission and vision that 
link to Zoom’s broader DEI strategy. Already, nearly one-quarter of 
Zoomies are members of at least one ERG, with the potential for more  
to form in the future as interests and needs arise within the organization. 
To create an open space for our employees to learn more about  
one another’s unique backgrounds, we hosted a nine-part series 
called Race in the Workplace as part of our Zoom Talks initiative. 
Zoom Talks consists of 60-to-90-minute facilitated sessions, in which 
internal and externall experts are invited to cover topics such as 
gender, sexual orientation, being an upstander, and mental health, 
among others. Since the start of the program, we have held 20 
sessions. These have been very popular with Zoomies. 
Methodology  
Data is noted for fiscal year 2022 as of 1/31/2022 based on Zoom employees who have self-identified. The balance of data points that do not add up to 100% indicates the percentage of those who 
have declined to identify and/or due to rounding. “All employees” is defined as Zoom’s regular (non-contract, non-intern) employee population. “Leadership” is defined as Zoom employees within the 
management level categories of Director or Executive. 
A more detailed breakdown of our employee population, which in includes technical, non-technical and manager level breakdowns can be found in our DEI Report . Zoom also files an EEO-1  annually  
with the EEOC and a summary of that report for 2021 can also be found in our DEI report. Race & Ethnicity at Zoom  (US-based employees)
White
Declined to identifyTwo or more racesHispanic/LatinxBlackIndigenous American  
or Alaskan native
Native Hawaiian or  
other Pacific IslanderAsian6.5%
0.5%
2.8%
9.2%
6.3%
0.0%
2.3%
11.8%53.4%
22.4%
0.3%
4.3%
52.9%
23.5%
0.0%
3.2%All Zoom Employees
LeadershipGender at Zoom (Global Employees)
All Zoom Employees
WOMEN MEN
Leadership
WOMEN MEN30.7%
32.9% 65.9%68.4%May 2022  |  15
Zoom ESG Report FY2217 Amplifying the impact of our philanthropy  
18 In-kind product
18 Responsible supply chain
19 Promoting DEI outside of ZoomCommunity
People Introduction Environment Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  16
Zoom ESG Report FY22Community
As a platform for everyone, enabling communication and  
collaboration globally, Zoom is honored to serve many  
communities around the world. Caring for our communities  
is an integral part of our core value of Care. 
Our role in helping people communicate and collaborate with each 
other is a privilege and a responsibility. Our actions demonstrate 
Zoom’s intent to play a fundamental role in supporting communities, 
not only through our products and services, but also by leveraging 
our voice, our passionate employees, and charitable giving.
In 2020, we launched Zoom Cares, our global social impact arm,  
to put the full weight of our company behind our commitment to a 
future where all people and the environment are cared for. We are 
passionate about supporting communities around the globe through 
a range of philanthropic efforts, both at a corporate level and by 
enabling our employees in their charitable pursuits. We are seizing the opportunity to help support these organizations 
as they build a future that is more just, more equitable, and more 
caring. Our 2021 Social Impact Report  highlights our phenomenal 
partners and grantees and their enormous efforts, with a particular 
focus on those supporting youth, LGBTQ+ individuals, and  
communities of color. It also looks back at the work of Zoom Cares 
and how our employees are making a collective difference.
1,090 organizations  
supported globally – donated through our 
Zoomies Care company-match program$942,077  
in employee giving
$901,271  
matched by Zoom
minutes of free meeting 
access provided  
to K-12, primary, and  
secondary schools95 billion Community achievements:
$3,429,519
$11,383,500of in-kind product donations  
to charitable organizations
of grants funded by Zoom
25,049  
organizations
leveraged our 50% off  
discount offering in  
105 countriesPeople Introduction Environment Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  17
Zoom ESG Report FY22Community
Amplifying the impact of our philanthropy
Zoom Cares brings together the best of Zoom to help solve some  
of humanity’s biggest challenges. Our people are passionate about 
making an impact. By deploying funds, technology, and technical 
expertise, we are helping to address educational and social inequities 
and tackle climate change.
In 2021, Zoom donated $11,383,500 in grants to 192 organizations 
across countries globally. We also asked our top customers to 
nominate a nonprofit of their choice to receive a $100 donation from 
Zoom. As part of this effort, we donated $250,000 on behalf of  
our customers. 
We make a conscious effort to give resources to organizations that 
typically receive less funding. Therefore, we look for opportunities  
to fund Black, Indigenous, People of Color (BIPOC)-led organizations 
and smaller-budget, grassroots organizations that might not attract 
major corporate grants due to their size. Recently, we announced 
$5.5 million in funding  to support organizations delivering critical 
impact around the world. We also believe in uplifting San Jose and 
the broader Bay Area, where Zoom was founded and is headquartered. 
Our latest local grant portfolio  directs $500,000 to 10 nonprofits 
working in three strategic areas: education, climate change, and social 
inequities. All of these are grassroots organizations with a focus on 
youth, led by people of color, and serve marginalized communities, 
including low-income individuals, LGBTQ+, and people of color. We also try to amplify the passion and generosity of our employees 
through the Zoomies Care donation matching program. In 2021, 
Zoomies donated $942,077 and Zoom matched $901,271 to 1,090 
organizations globally. Our employees are also encouraged to  
donate their time to charitable causes. 
We believe education is a fundamental right. One way we are 
contributing to creating a brighter future is supporting and increasing 
the quality of education in under-resourced communities globally.  
To support virtual learning and promote greater educational equity, 
we launched our EdInnovation Awards, which in 2021 provided six 
winners with a combined $1 million in grant funding , plus Zoom 
technology and support. These recipients turned the challenges of 
the pandemic into an opportunity, scaling their reach and deepening 
their impact via video communications. 
Through our Zoom Cares focus on addressing social inequity, we  
also support many programs tackling the digital divide, including the 
San Jose Digital Inclusion Fund and the EducationSuperHighway. 
A sample of the nonprofits we supported during the year:
EDUCATION
STEM from Dance
Re:Coded
Ignite ReadingSOCIAL EQUITY
Oakland Kids First
The Rise Fund/Rosa UK
The YP FoundationENVIRONMENT
Seed Mob
Native Movement
MPP HaitiMENTAL HEALTH
Black Girls Smile
The Friendship Bench
iCallPeople Introduction Environment Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  18
Zoom ESG Report FY22Community
In-kind product
Zoom is how the world connects. Nonprofits across the globe use 
our product  to build powerful connections, scale their reach, and 
deliver critical services. In 2021, we provided $3,429,519 in product 
donations and provided our product at a 50% discount to 25,049 
nonprofits in 105 countries through our TechSoup partnership. 
We also led with our product to help support education over the past 
two years by waiving the 40-minute limit upon request for schools 
globally. As part of this initiative, we provided roughly 95 billion 
minutes of free meeting access to K-12 schools. We also provided 
free training and resources on using Zoom to over 35,000 educators.Responsible supply chain
We view our third-party suppliers as part of the Zoom family, so we 
look to work with partners that share our values and our focus on 
responsibility. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code of 
Conduct)  sets out our expectation that our suppliers will abide by our 
commitments to respect the privacy of our customers, protect human 
rights, and operate ethically. Prospective vendors are screened by our 
Compliance and Ethics team and must agree to comply with anti-  
bribery and anti-corruption laws as a condition of doing business  
with Zoom. In return, we commit to deal fairly with our suppliers and 
follow clear principles of fair competition when purchasing products 
and selecting suppliers. 
People Introduction Environment Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  19
Zoom ESG Report FY22Community
Promoting DEI outside of Zoom
Our efforts to support diverse communities are part of our drive to 
make a real difference and be a powerful force for positive change. 
We are proud of the impact we have achieved so far, and we want  
to continue to use our platform and voice to help create a more 
equitable world.
Creating inclusive products
We have worked hard to embed DEI principles into our products. 
We have introduced a number of features to make our products 
more accessible and inclusive, including auto-generated captions via 
the live transcription feature, emojis with diverse skin tones, a 
pronouns feature, and Smart Gallery, which is a Zoom Rooms feature 
that uses cutting-edge hardware and AI to create individual video 
feeds of in-room participants and gives remote participants a clearer 
view of their in-room counterparts. Promoting DEI through facilitating conversation
To do this, we partner with and sponsor a range of organizations  
to advance causes about which we are passionate. Through one of 
these partnerships, we supported a series of Zoom workshops 
hosted by the UK-based charity If Chloe Can . The charity works with 
schools to provide girls ages 12-14 with career advice and female 
role models. Similarly, in partnership with TIME, we used our 
platform to host a series of conversations on Race in the Workplace 
to address racism, bias, and systemic inequality. We have also 
partnered with leading Black women artists and organizations like 
Color of Change and Mobilize to host “The Zoom Where it Happens” 
sessions to support voter equity and ensure communities of color 
have their votes counted.
May 2022  |  20
Zoom ESG Report FY2222 Energy and climate 
23 Environmental management systemEnvironment
People Introduction Community Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  21
Zoom ESG Report FY22Environment
Zoom has played an important role in enabling remote working  
for millions of people around the world every day. We estimate  
that our product has helped our customers reduce their carbon 
emissions by millions upon millions of metric tons, and we will 
continue to help take cars off the road for commutes as hybrid 
becomes the new work reality.
With the growing urgency of the climate crisis, we plan to continue 
to enable new and more sustainable ways of working. Employees 
around the world have proven that they can be productive and 
successful working from anywhere, opening up a range of possibilities 
for the future of work. Offices with smaller footprints will require 
less power, while fewer days spent in a physical office means less 
commuting, thus reducing emissions. We are proud to provide 
secure, frictionless services that allow businesses to communicate, connect and collaborate virtually, and ultimately contribute to the 
global effort to address climate change.
We’re also making more sustainable choices for ourselves in our 
direct operations. As we have grown considerably over the last two 
years, we’ve also been mindful of our own impact on the environment. 
We’re in the process of implementing a sustainability program.  
As part of this, we have examined our global operational carbon 
footprint, with the support of independent consultants, to identify 
mitigation opportunities and pursue initiatives to reduce our  
impact and improve our sustainability.
People Introduction Community Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  22
Zoom ESG Report FY22Environment
Energy and climate
We have engaged Anthesis, a global sustainability consultancy, to 
help us accurately measure our carbon footprint by conducting an 
audit of our direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 
Our FY21 GHG emissions inventory was developed using emission 
factors and accounting methodologies in line with established best 
practices set forth by the World Resources Institute and the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development in the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and the accompanying 
technical guidance documents, including the GHG Protocol Scope 2 
Guidance and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and 
Reporting Standard. Our FY21 GHG inventory includes our scope 1, 
scope 2, and all of our relevant scope 3 emissions.
We will use this audit as a baseline to measure the effectiveness  
of our efforts to reduce our emissions, help us identify where  
we can make meaningful improvements, and set targets to hold 
ourselves accountable. 
We have already launched initiatives to reduce our emissions by 
improving the energy efficiency of our offices. During 2021, we 
completed audits and retrofits where necessary of our lighting and 
HVAC systems for all of our global office space. We also conducted an audit of our energy usage and providers to identify opportunities 
for reducing usage and purchasing green energy instead of fossil  
fuel energy.
We monitor the energy use of our data centers, and were pleased  
to find that there was no increase in GHG emissions arising from our 
data center during 2021. Our largest data centers by energy usage 
are located in Virginia and California, both of which use 100% 
renewable energy. We are also investing to build out our own clean 
data center footprint, reducing the amount of cloud storage needed. 
Although we are just starting out on this journey, we will hold 
ourselves accountable by reporting transparently on the evolution of 
our ESG strategy, goals, and targets. As part of this effort, we intend 
to align our upcoming ESG reports to selected standard reporting 
frameworks such as Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) and set ambitious, yet achievable environmental 
targets. As of this year, we have committed to achieving 100% 
renewable electricity in our operations (scope 2) by 2030. We are 
working toward setting broader ESG goals and targets that will 
ensure credibility and transparency along the way.
1. Scope 1 emissions are related to natural gas and diesel consumed in our offices, and mobile emissions from gasoline consumed by our company-operated vehicles. 
2. Scope 2 emissions include purchased electricity, estimated refrigerant leakage, and estimated natural gas consumption in our offices and data centers IT load. Scope 2 is calculated using  
location-based and market-based methodologies.
3. Scope 2 market-based emissions factor in renewable electricity procured by some of our colocated data center providers.
4. Scope 3 Fuel and Energy Related Activities emissions are calculated using location-based and market-based methodologies. Zoom reports the market-based emissions.
5. Scope 3 Business Travel includes emissions from air travel, car rental, rail transportation and hotel stays.
6. Scope 3 Employee Commuting includes emissions from employee commuting and remote work emissions (i.e. electricity and natural gas consumptions from employees working from home).
7. Scope 3 Upstream Leased Assets includes emissions from data centers non-IT electricity load (heating and cooling) and is calculated using location-based and market-based methodologies.  
Zoom reports the market-based emissions 
8. Total emissions include scope 1, scope 2 market-based, and scope 3 emissions.   Emission Source Emissions (MT CO2e)
Scope 1 Emissions1 460 
Stationary Fuel
Mobile Combustion 459 
 1 
Scope 2 Location-based Emissions2
Scope 2 Market-based Emissions3 22,282 
 9,198 
Scope 3 Emissions  43,834 
Category 1 Purchased Goods and Services
Category 2 Capital Goods
Category 3 Fuel and Energy Related Activities4
Category 4 Upstream Transportation
Category 5 Waste Generated in Operations
Category 6 Business Travel5
Category 7 Employee Commuting6
Category 8 Upstream leased assets7 30,970 
 3,448 
 2,392 
 340 
 1 
 258 
 3,852 
 2,573 
T otal Emissions853,492Zoom FY2021 GHG Emissions Inventory (MT CO2e)
Scope 1 emissions
Scope 2 Market-based emissions
Scope 3 EmissionsPeople Introduction Community Trust Appendix
May 2022  |  23
Zoom ESG Report FY22Environment
Environmental management system
As we develop our future working model, we will explore how to 
best integrate environmental principles into our organization’s 
strategy and operations. In future ESG reports, we plan to address 
the following topics, among others:
• Recycling and reuse in the workplace
• Waste management and minimization
• Water management
• Energy management
• Sustainable procurement criteria
• Product lifecycle management
May 2022  |  24
Zoom ESG Report FY2226 Data privacy and cybersecurity  
28 Protecting our customers and our business   
 from technology disruptions
29 Emerging technology, compliance and ethics
30 Freedom of expression
30 Oversight of ESG at ZoomTrust
People Introduction Community Environment Appendix
May 2022  |  25
Zoom ESG Report FY22Trust
Zoom was originally created to provide a video conferencing 
service that people could count on to ‘just work.’ Making video 
communications frictionless and secure is still our mission. T o do 
this, we have to make sure our customers feel safe and confident 
sharing their data, personal information, and confidential business 
information over our platform. Trust is an essential feature of  
our platform and service. 
As growth in our daily meeting participants exploded over the last 
two years, by as much as 30x pre-pandemic levels, we served 
hundreds of millions of users. In many ways, our service has become 
essential to enabling businesses, educators, and families to connect, communicate, and collaborate. This is a responsibility we take 
seriously, and the reliance and faith our customers place in Zoom 
only serves to strengthen our commitment to provide a safe and 
secure service for all users. Trust is also an integral part of our  
values and culture. 
People Introduction Community Environment Appendix
May 2022  |  26
Zoom ESG Report FY22Trust
Data privacy and cybersecurity
Zoom is committed to protecting the security, privacy, and integrity 
of our technology infrastructure and data, including personal data 
related to our customers, users, employees, vendors, business 
partners, and other parties. One of the most important ways we 
protect our users and win their trust is by protecting their privacy.  
As demand for our platform has grown, we have invested to enhance 
and scale our privacy and security measures. We have introduced  
a number of new features to strengthen the security of our platform 
and continue to invest to develop an enterprise platform that 
provides assurance through transparency. 
We strive to continuously improve  our cybersecurity processes and 
program effectiveness and ensure we remain aligned with industry 
best practice, as demonstrated by our growing list of third party 
certifications and attestations. Zoom continues to demonstrate its 
ability to nail the basics through certifications like ISO/IEC 
27001:2013 and SOC 2 + HITRUST, while also raising the bar with 
the Common Criteria Certification. The Zoom Meeting Client is the 
first video communications client to attain certification  for Common 
Criteria Evaluation Assurance Level 2 (v3.1 rev. 5), issued by the 
German Federal Office for Information Security.
Global privacy program
Zoom is committed to respecting the privacy rights of individuals 
and strives to comply with the privacy and data protection laws, 
rules, and regulations applicable to us in the jurisdictions where we 
operate, including GDPR and the CCPA. We have a dedicated 
Privacy Team responsible for the management and development of 
our external and internal privacy programs. Our Privacy Statement 
can be found here , along with a range of resources that explain  
the types of data we collect, how we use that data, and how we 
protect our users’ data and privacy. 
In April 2022, we announced the publication  of our Data Protection 
Impact Assessment (DPIA) from SURF, the collaborative organization 
for IT in Dutch education and research. The DPIA provided a 
detailed technical and legal review of data collection and use 
practices to determine compliance with EU data protection laws 
such as General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) on Zoom’s 
Meetings, Webinar, and Chat services. Zoom agreed to several 
actions in the course of collaborating on the DPIA, including new 
features, improved transparency and documentation, enhanced 
practices, and a measurement plan. Zoom has an extensive array of privacy and safety features to help 
our users control who attends their meetings, webinars, and events 
and how those attendees participate, such as whether, when, and 
where to store their content and who has access to it. Zoom offers 
end-to-end encryption for meetings, which gives users the ability  
to host meetings where nobody except each participant has access 
to the encryption keys being used to encrypt the meeting data in 
transit. In April 2021, we launched in-product notifications  designed 
to make it easier for users to understand who can see, save, and 
share their content and information when they join meetings and 
experiences hosted on Zoom. Shortly after, we added additional 
notice  and consent options in the product.
Ongoing investment in cybersecurity
Zoom continues to invest heavily in cybersecurity, and we have 
taken significant steps to grow and mature our information security 
program. In FY22, we more than doubled the size of our information 
security organization and invested heavily in hiring top talent in key 
domains, such as security engineering, threat intelligence, vulnerability 
management, offensive security, detection and response, security 
risk management, and compliance. 
Our information security framework is based on the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework 
(NIST CSF), and team objectives are aligned to each area of the NIST 
CSF so that we can continuously measure our program and progress 
on such objectives. Overarching Zoom’s information security 
framework is a governance and continuous improvement model that 
is based on ISO 27001 and includes ongoing measurement and 
evaluation of the effectiveness of the program, assessing priorities 
and objectives to continuously improve the program, and regularly 
reviewing program priorities and performance with executive 
leadership and the Board of Directors.
We have also invested heavily in security features for our customers 
and users and have implemented measures to address meeting 
disruptions, introduced end-to-end encryption and two-factor 
authentication features, and rolled out comprehensive education 
campaigns to let users know how to use our security features.  
In November 2021, we also released automatic updates  in the Zoom 
client, enabling users to receive important security fixes and other 
features, improving their overall experience with the Zoom platform.People Introduction Community Environment Appendix
May 2022  |  27
Zoom ESG Report FY22Trust
Data privacy and cybersecurity (cont.)
A cybersecurity mindset
We focus heavily on establishing a strong cybersecurity mindset at 
Zoom, with employees required to complete information security 
training upon hire and annually thereafter. Additional risk-based 
security training sessions are required for specific roles. For example, 
developers are required to complete secure code training prior to 
being granted access to develop production code and annually 
thereafter. These trainings are reinforced through ongoing awareness 
campaigns to tackle specific cybersecurity risks. Zoom conducts 
phishing exercises and awareness campaigns at least quarterly.  
We also work with external security researchers through our bug 
bounty program, which rewards them for identifying vulnerabilities. 
We conduct annual risk assessments of assets, including customer 
information, and we undergo external cybersecurity audits on both  
a regular and ad hoc basis. User education
We strongly believe in educating our community of users about our 
security policies and on how best to leverage all of our products’ 
many security features. The Zoom Trust Center  offers a plethora of 
Zoom security, privacy, and safety information. In December 2021, 
we launched our Zoom Learning Center , a free and accessible 
platform to anyone interested in learning how to Zoom like a pro.  
It offers a “Zoom Security Basics” training.
People Introduction Community Environment Appendix
May 2022  |  28
Zoom ESG Report FY22Trust
Protecting our customers and  
our business from technology disruptions
We are determined to provide a reliable and resilient service to our 
customers, many of whom have come to see Zoom as an indispensable 
means of communication. We know that interruptions, delays,  
or outages in our services can disrupt our customers’ critical 
operations, so protecting our users from technology disruption is 
extremely important to us. We endeavor to prevent and protect 
against disruptions caused by a range of factors, including infrastructure 
changes, human or software errors, viruses, ransomware or cyber 
extortion, fraud, general internet availability issues, spikes in usage, 
and denial of service issues. We maintain and update a service status 
website  to keep our customers apprised of any disruptions to our 
services and apps.
To protect against and minimize the impact of this type of disruption, 
we have comprehensive business continuity management and 
disaster recovery programs in place. These programs are tested 
annually across more than 20 co-located data centers and public 
cloud services, ensuring capacity can be shifted easily between 
resources. We activated parts of our business continuity plan in 
March 2020, when we sent our employees to work from home.  
We were pleased that we not only ensured continuity of service,  
but we also successfully managed the astonishing growth in our 
customer base during this time.
In January 2021, we appointed a new Head of Physical Security  
and Business Resilience to focus on further mitigating the risks of 
disruption and protecting our customers. Thereafter in 2021, we 
formalized our Business Resilience processes through establishment 
of a Business Resilience Team under cybersecurity. This team helps 
improve Zoom’s capability to protect its employees and continue the 
delivery of our products and services following a disruptive incident. 
The program encompasses crisis management, business continuity, 
and disaster recovery for all enterprise operations globally. Moving 
forward, the team will focus on annually conducting business impact 
assessments, building new planning tools, and testing our capabilities 
through scenario-based testing.People Introduction Community Environment Appendix
May 2022  |  29
Zoom ESG Report FY22Trust
Emerging technology, compliance and ethics
At Zoom, our culture of safety and cybersecurity goes hand-in-hand 
with a strong commitment to ethical business practices. Our 
compliance and ethics program has been in place since before our 
2019 IPO, and we continue to improve it as the company grows, 
focusing on the program’s design, the good faith application of it, 
and how it works in practice. Along with standalone policies, our 
Code of Conduct sets forth our business expectations for conducting 
business with care, integrity, and high ethical standards. It addresses 
a number of compliance topics, including our non-retaliation policy 
and how to use our SpeakUp (whistleblower) hotline. All employees 
and directors are subject to and periodically acknowledge our  
Code of Conduct. 
One topic addressed in our Code of Conduct and standalone policies 
is anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance. Zoom’s anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption program includes standalone policies on 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, and conflicts 
of interest. Zoom’s commitment to compliance with anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption laws extends to our third party partners. Prospective 
vendors and business partners are required to participate in a 
screening process and agree to comply with anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption laws as a condition of doing business with Zoom. 
Zoom is committed to making sure our employees understand  
our compliance policies and procedures and are aware of our 
SpeakUp (whistleblower) hotline. We train employees about our 
SpeakUp culture and key policies upon joining the company, as part 
of our employee onboarding program. We also regularly train and 
communicate to employees through messages from leadership,  
and bespoke web-based training in local languages and live instructor-  
led training that address key compliance risk topics. We have 
implemented an enterprise-wide learning management system to 
facilitate training and maintain attendance records across the business.Whistleblower program
We believe there’s a correlation between having a healthy “speak up” 
culture and ethical business practices. At Zoom, we have a third-party 
hosted whistleblower hotline, as required for public companies, which 
can be used by employees and third parties 24/7 to make anonymous 
or confidential reports to the Company. Beyond meeting public 
company requirements, our approach is to design and promote a 
workplace with multiple avenues for employees to voice issues and 
concerns -- one where speaking up is driven and supported by multiple 
teams in addition to Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer, which 
include: direct managers, the People Experience Team, the Legal 
Department, Internal Audit, and the Audit Committee of the Board  
of Directors (for reports related to the accuracy of Zoom’s financial 
statements or recorded transactions). Reports are taken seriously, 
treated confidentially, and are reviewed through a governance process 
that includes the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
Employees are also regularly reminded about the Company’s non-  
retaliation policy as part of the SpeakUp hotline.People Introduction Community Environment Appendix
May 2022  |  30 Zoom ESG Report FY22Trust
Freedom of expression
Today’s technologies blend our physical and virtual worlds, giving  
us new ways to work, communicate, and express ourselves. Zoom is 
committed to supporting the free and open exchange of thoughts 
and ideas. We are proud to facilitate meaningful conversations and 
professional collaboration around the world. You can find more 
information about our commitment to freedom of expression in our 
Trust Center . 
At Zoom, we enable these activities on our platform, while also 
working to keep our users and their communities safe. We promote 
open dialogue through our public commitments, our business 
practices, and our engagement and memberships in civil society 
groups such as the Global Network Initiative. To help maintain an inclusive environment that safeguards the speech, we are transparent 
about how we handle reports of user abuse  and government requests  
from around the world. 
As part of our commitment to transparency, we notify our users 
when we take actions that impact their ability to use Zoom, and we 
allow users to appeal  these actions. Finally, we publish comprehensive 
reports on how we respond to government requests globally and 
enforce our Community Standards. We update our government 
requests transparency report  semi-annually, with reporting periods 
from January to June and July to December, and we update our 
Community Standards enforcement reports  monthly.
Oversight of ESG at Zoom
Embodied in Zoom’s core value of Care, is caring for our people, community, and environment. 
In 2021, the Board of Directors amended the charter of the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee to include oversight of ESG practices and initiatives. 
Our management team reports on these matters to the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee on a regular basis. 
We intend to share updates on our ESG efforts on a regular basis via our website  
and reports like this one.May 2022  |  31
Zoom ESG Report FY2232 Policies and statements
32 Forward-looking statements 
33 SASB Index tableAppendixMay 2022  |  32
Zoom ESG Report FY22Forward-looking statements Policies and statements
Zoom Privacy Statement
Transparency Report
Community Standards EnforcementTrust Center
Social Impact Report
DEI ReportEEO-1 Report
Code of Conduct
This report does not cover all information about our business. 
References in this report to information should not be construed as 
a characterization regarding the materiality of such information to 
our financial results or for purposes of the U.S. securities laws.  
The information covered by this report contains forward-looking 
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding our ESG 
framework, including goals, commitments, and strategies and related 
business and stakeholder impacts. These statements involve risks 
and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from any 
future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, 
including any failure to meet stated goals and commitments in our 
ESG framework, and execute our strategies in the time frame 
expected or at all, as a result of many factors, including changing 
government regulations, continued uncertainty regarding the extent 
and duration of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the 
responses of government and private industry thereto, uncertainty 
regarding customer and workplace behavior trends as the COVID-19 
pandemic tapers, particularly as vaccines become widely available 
and distributed, and users return to work or school or are otherwise no longer subject to limitations on in-person meetings, delays  
or outages in services from our co-located data centers, failures  
in internet infrastructure or interference with broadband access 
which could cause current or potential users to believe that  
our systems are unreliable, market volatility, and global security 
concerns and their potential impact on regional and global 
economies and supply chains. More information on risks,  
uncertainties, and other potential factors that could affect our 
business and performance is included in our filings with the SEC, 
including in the “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” sections 
of Zoom’s most recently filed periodic reports on Form 10-K and 
Form 10-Q and subsequent filings. Forward-looking statements 
speak only as of the date the statements are made and are based 
on information available to Zoom at the time those statements  
are made and/or management’s good faith belief as of that  
time with respect to future events. Zoom assumes no obligation  
to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or  
circumstances after the date they were made, except as  
required by law.Appendix People Introduction Community Environment TrustMay 2022  |  33
Zoom ESG Report FY22Topic Accounting Metric Code Response
Environmental Footprint of 
Hardware Infrastructure(1) Total energy consumed,  
(2) percentage grid electricity,  
(3) percentage renewableTC-SI-130a.1 See “Energy & climate” section (page 22)
(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water 
consumed, percentage of each in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressTC-SI-130a.2 Zoom does not currently report on 
water consumption; we will monitor and 
consider reporting in the future
Discussion of the integration of environmental 
considerations into strategic planning for data 
center needsTC-SI-130a.3 See “Energy & climate” section (page 22)
Data Security (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage 
involving personally identifiable information 
(PII), (3) number of users affectedTC-SI-230a.1 Zoom does not disclose this metric at 
this time, but we will evaluate for future 
reporting efforts
Description of approach to identifying and 
addressing data security risks, including use of 
third-party cybersecurity standardsTC-SI-230a.2 See “Data privacy & cybersecurity”  
(page 26)
Data Privacy & Freedom  
of ExpressionDescription of policies and practices relating to 
behavioral advertising and user privacyTC-SI-220a.1 Zoom Privacy Statement
Number of users whose information is used for 
secondary purposesTC-SI-220a.2 Zoom Privacy Statement
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of 
legal proceedings associated with user privacyTC-SI-220a.3 Zoom does not currently report on legal 
proceedings related to user privacy; we 
will monitor and consider reporting in  
the future
(1) Number of law enforcement requests for 
user information, (2) number of users whose 
information was requested, (3) percentage 
resulting in disclosureTC-SI-220a.4 Transparency Report
(1) Number of law enforcement requests for 
user information, (2) number of users whose List 
of countries where core products or services 
are subject to government-required monitoring, 
blocking, content filtering, or censoringTC-SI-220a.5 Transparency Report
Recruiting & Managing a Global, 
Diverse & Skilled WorkforcePercentage of employees that are  
foreign nationalsTC-SI-330a.1 As of January 31, 2021, approximately 
5% of our US-based employees were 
foreign nationals.
Employee engagement as  
a percentageTC-SI-330a.2 See “Employee engagement” section 
(page 13)
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group 
representation for (1) management,  
(2) technical staff, and  
(3) all other employeesTC-SI-330a.3 Please see our DEI Report   
or our EEO-1 ReportSustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) IndexAppendix People Introduction Community Environment TrustMay 2022  |  34
Zoom ESG Report FY22Topic Accounting Metric Code Response
Intellectual Property Protection & 
Competitive BehaviorTotal amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with anti-competitive 
behavior regulationsTC-SI-520a.1 Zoom has not had any significant 
fines or losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with anti-
competitive behavior regulations
Managing Systemic Risks from 
Technology DisruptionsNumber of (1) performance issues 
and (2) service disruptions; (3) 
total customer downtimeTC-SI-550a.1 See “Protecting our customers 
and our business from technology 
disruptions” section (page 28)
Description of business continuity 
risks related to disruptions of 
operationsTC-SI-550a.2 See “Protecting our customers 
and our business from technology 
disruptions” section (page 28) 
or in the “Risk Factors”section 
of Zoom’s most recently filed 
periodic reports on Form 10-K 
and Form 10-QSustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index (cont.)Appendix People Introduction Community Environment Trust